ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. I ask you to invite the National Deputies into the Hall and prepare for registration. So, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please register with the National Deputies and please take part in the registration. [[10:05:56]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: to Valery Mikolaiovich Davidenko, welcome, and to Alexia Mikolaiovich Kirichenko, welcome to our birthday! Kirichenko. Members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Volodymyr BorisovichGroysman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. Today, the speech before the National Deputies will be given by the Minister of Social Policy, Andriy Alexiyovich Reva, 20 minutes later, a question from the factions and 20 minutes a question from the National Deputies. Andrew Alexiyovich, please report. May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! Let me tell you the important decisions of the government that have been made in the past in order to increase efficiency in the implementation of state social protection programmes for people with disabilities. Since the first days of the government’s work, that is, since April 2016, we have taken stock of existing programs and found that some of them have not achieved their goal because people are not fully able to meet their needs. The social effectiveness of such programs is low. Upon completing last year's budget year, we summed up and prepared the necessary changes to the conditions for social protection programmes for people with disabilities. These decisions were developed in conjunction with the public empowered by the Government and the President of Ukraine from the rights of persons with disabilities, Rajis Vasilovna Panasuk and Valery Mikhailovich Suškević. And what we're presenting to you is the result of our joint 14-month work. The first program that needed to be modernized is the program of providing disabled persons with technical and other rehabilitation facilities. This is a very important program that depends on the quality of life of people with disabilities. This was especially felt by young people who were traumatized by military actions in the eastern part of the country, by military personnel, by volunteers, by civilians. Their rehabilitation should result in the restoration of their ability to work, to learn, to engage in sports, and to be active in life. Unfortunately, we receive numerous complaints from people about the quality of products and services provided by such products. Why is this happening? Prosthetic orthopaedic products, wheelchairs and other rehabilitation facilities in Ukraine produce or supply 91 enterprises, 13 of which are state-owned or incarcerated. Only 58 companies produce prosthetics, and only 6 produce high-function prosthetics that are needed by the victims of the antiterrorist operation. The number of enterprises compared to foreign countries is quite small to talk about a competitive environment in this area. In Germany, for example, only prosthetic enterprises have about 500, although man has the right to choose the product, but there is no complete information on the list of such products and manufacturers. With social protection bodies in general, the Ministry of Social Policy is centralizing the distribution of funds between these enterprises. After the company’s funding, people are provided with products. So there's a process of making money, not paying for a product that's been provided by or served by a person. In doing so, there is virtually no control and supervision of persons with disabilities from local social protection agencies. Despite the fact that almost all production is purchased at budget costs, the experience of foreign countries shows that the question of improving the quality of services lies in classical competition, which should be based on the principle that a person chooses better quality. Better financial indicators will be available in this system of businesses that better satisfy people. So the main mechanism for developing the national market for orthopedic prosthetics and other rehabilitative devices is to ensure the free choice of such products. And as a result of equal access by businesses to order, not as we have today: a club for our own, where strangers can't go. As we can see, a road map of measures to change the supply system of people with disabilities with prosthetic or orthopaedic products. The first step on this path, where we started the movement, is eliminating the queues and providing the means to rehabilitate. Indeed, the planned budget for Ukraine for 2017 was 977 million, 600,000 dollars, representing only 60 percent of the claimed need and creating almost a year’s turnaround for obtaining such products. The government has been looking for a funding reserve and the amount of the programme has been increased by 652 million dollars on the basis of the internal redistribution of funds between the programmes of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. From this rostrum, I would like to thank the National Deputies, the members of the Committee on Budgets and personally his head, Andriy Vasilovich, for making it possible for them to make such a decision. This decision was the first time that people with disabilities were fully provided with rehabilitation equipment in 2017. More than 400,000 technical units were produced, including 13,000 800 wheel chairs, 73.4 thousand prosthetic or orthopaedic products, and more than 36.5 thousand rehabilitative devices. In 2018, 150 million dollars more than in the 17th budget are available for the programme. The very solution to funding problems has enabled us to develop a new model for providing people with disabilities with the technical means of rehabilitation that we present today and that is based on the principle of targetedness and transparency. The second step envisaged by the government's decision is to move from financing manufacturers to paying for the actual service that a person chooses. So the main tool for improving the program is to put in place the principle of "money goes after a person." In general, this has been a systemic direction for the ministry over the last two years. Almost all social protection programs have been translated into this principle. But the biggest effect we expect is the transition, the introduction of "principle follow man" when providing people with invalidity with prosthetic or orthopaedic products. Step three. In order to realize the possibility of selecting a technical means of rehabilitation, our country, Ukrainian Institute of Prosthetic Science, Prosthetics and Restoration, located in Kharkiv, has developed an electronic catalogue of technical and other means of rehabilitation. This system is based on the World Health Organization methodology. The availability and use of an electronic directory will enable a person to make informed and informed choices, to develop further electronic services. For businesses, it is an opportunity to have equal access to order placement. Ladies and gentlemen, you can go to the Ministry's website right now, see this catalogue and see how it works. It is available to every Ukrainian citizen today, including, and above all, to people with disabilities. Step four. We're introducing a new social guarantee, the provision of rehabilitation services for adaptation and preparation for rehabilitation. In particular, this service will be provided to all people with primary disabilities and will improve with the help of the robotics team of experts, the quality of choosing one that best suits a person to compensate for functional limitations. And finally, step five. The provision of services is based on a tripartite agreement between a person, an enterprise, and a social protection body, with clear obligations regarding the timeliness and quality of such service. Today there are no individual contracts, there is a general agreement in which virtually every human being, every product provided to such a person, is lost. And it's not physically possible to control its quality, its deadlines. At the same time, local social protection agencies will provide permanent assistance in providing services for disabled persons with rehabilitation, starting with disability, providing the necessary assistance and not waiting for formal requests to be made to various institutions. A person with disabilities, his needs, will be at the heart of the new rehabilitation technology system, not the distribution of funds among businesses. In addition, we are expanding the capacity to provide products to affected participants in an anti-terror operation, and we are also implementing for individual rehabilitation products sold on commercial networks, compensation for self-sustained products to reduce administrative procedures and time to provide them. The next program that needs to be updated is the implementation of measures for the rehabilitation of children with disabilities approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on June 20, 2012 number 572. The cost of rehabilitation measures has not been revised since 2012. We're increasing this financial standard for one child with a 2nd and 3rd degree disability limit from 9,000 dollars today to 17 and 25,000 dollars respectively. For children with disabilities and children with disabilities deprived of parental care, the marginal cost of services increases by 50 percent. What does that do? If today practically social protection agencies impose a rehabilitation facility in which rehabilitation is needed, and parents with disabilities have other wishes to send them to another institution, they now have only one choice: either at their own expense to buy a trip to such a facility or to choose the one recommended by social protection agencies. Now, in increasing funding, they get the right to choose such an establishment at the same time, and so we will fully finance that need. Another initiative for the introduction of a new programme is to encourage the territorial communities to move people with disabilities. This program is vital for removing barriers to the vitality of people with disabilities, their rights and their accessibility, especially for people in wheelchairs. The slide shows the organization of transport services, which is already operating in some cities in Ukraine, particularly in Kharkiv, where two new vehicles have been purchased in the past year to transport people in wheelchairs. The initiative of the authorized Government of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of Raisa Vasilovna Panasuka to purchase specially equipped cars for the creation of services for the transport of persons with disabilities in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018 is precisely thanks to those deputies who voted in favour of this budget to provide 30 million dollars. In fact, it is a pilot project for the acquisition of cars and the transfer of vehicles to local communities, including those combined with the results of the competition. The main criterion for choosing communities is the decision taken by the local self-government body to create a transport service and allocate funds to the local budget for its maintenance. We're going to hand these cars over to these communities, and that's how we're going to encourage them to create a transport service system for people with disabilities who have a malfunction of the drive-in device. The Government has also adopted a decree approving the use of the funds provided for in the State Budget for the financial support of the social unification of persons with disabilities. This support brings about a system of measures that envision the involvement of citizens with disabilities in active social life. In fact, we combine state programs, the efforts of local self-government authorities and the active work of public organizations to increase social support and concern for people with disabilities. We are obliged to step up to the international standards of the European human rights system, where every human being, regardless of the circumstances involved, will be integrated into society’s vitality and will have access to all social benefits and services. And I am convinced that with the joint efforts of the government, the President, and the people’s deputies, we will definitely achieve this goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u3	Thank you. So first, I'm asking you to ask questions from factions and groups to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please record and participate in the record. From the Self-Help faction, Lavrick. Yes, it is. Yeah, sorry, I don't have that tape. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, "The Will of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u4	I have a question for the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine. Vladimir Borisovic, Volodymyr Borisovic. He can't hear. I have an appeal to the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine. Vladimir Borisovich, I know that your word and work do not go away. So I'm asking you to take a personal look at the restoration of the only highway from the Sumskie and Chernigov area of the N-07, which is not a journey today at all. Appoint a commission, let them take their place, travel all the way and include them immediately in the restoration of it, this is a great request to you as Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u5	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u6	Mr. President of the Supreme Council, distinguished fellow national MPs! Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich, for your question. I will definitely work on the technical and financial possibilities of doing this work and will inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Now, please, Shahov. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u8	Lugansk, 114th District, political force "Our End". Volodymyr Borisovich, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u9	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u10	Easy, give 180 million dollars back to Lugansk and Severodonetski. Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u11	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u12	Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question. Please say, in Lugansk, a pit, like a grave, full - time transportation, which drives, the wheels fall off. A decision has been made today by the Cabinet of Ministers on the monetaryization of social security benefits. According to our experts, if 300,000 people are still in Luhansk today, 100 million dollars each will have to be given. Especially Lysicánsk, Rubinzny, Severerodonetsk. There's no money like that. Please note this and address this issue for those areas that are under fire today. People are practically begging and driving at their own expense today, people who have worked for 40 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u14	Please note this and help the Luhansk and Donetsk regions with transportation benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. You know, you're talking about broken roads and broken roads. So they weren't broken yesterday or yesterday. Too bad. Unfortunately, for many years no attention has been paid to road farming. As you can see, we are now. For several years now, we've moved on to the system repair and restoration of Ukrainian roads, and that only means that in 3-5 years we're going to get the roads right. As far as the benefits are concerned, I would like to point out that we have made monetary decisions. We need to verify these benefits, and the benefits are to be obtained for free passage. Moreover, the operation of municipal transport, and it belongs to all municipalities, is in the competence and authority of local authorities, and legislation today foresees, including the financing of local budgets for these benefits. But what should be done? So that we don't have to cheat on the taxpayers' money, we need to verify it, and, most importantly, if we're talking about monetaryization, we're going to have people get the resources that they have. Thank you. As for the Luhansk region, only the Lugansk region of the State Regional Development Fund is further directed by the State to almost half a billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, Stormy Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u17	Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon. I have a question for you. On July 27, 2016, you signed an order to suspend the responsibility of the Minister of Health in Suprun. The response from the Migration Service indicates that she has not left foreign citizenship to date. I'm not asking why they took a man without an education, without a degree in higher education, without an order from the President concerning the granting of citizenship. I've got a different one. According to the U.S. tax system, one of the main three taxes is individual profit. Do you know if Ulysses-Hope is paying taxes, including individual income on social insurance, as defined by the U.S. Federal Tax System? So that it does not later turn out that this person does not pay taxes there is a violation of the laws of the United States and works in government. You may have to take responsibility today because you do not submit it to the Minister’s approval and do not give a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u18	Thank you for your question, thank you for your question. The answer is this: The government of Ukraine has adopted an appropriate decision to assume responsibilities in connection with the absence of a health minister. Consultations on candidatures and human resources issues are being conducted within the framework of the coalition. As soon as the question is resolved, we will immediately do what is necessary. As far as paying taxes is concerned, I find it difficult to say. I think you can go to the State Fiscal Service and get an official answer from the point of view of paying taxes to any member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u19	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u20	Questions to the Minister of Social Policy, Andrew Reva. Our MP group is made up exclusively of masquerades. We are constantly receiving a huge number of appeals from our voters regarding the recalculation of pensions. People don't quite understand the principle of counting, why someone gets an extra two hundred dollars, and someone's pension has doubled, and that's because in both cases the internship can be identical. I personally addressed you, Mr. Secretary, but received a simple receipt. So please explain the principle behind the recalculation. What are its basics and where can pensioners get acquainted with this information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. I'll answer right away. The pension is all calculated by a single formula with three elements. The first total for all is the average wage in the last three years in Ukraine. The second indicator is the individual wage ratio. And the third indicator is the rate of the insurance internship. In the case of equalization of the rate of the insurance period, as in your case, the different size of the recalculation is obviously determined by a different individual rate of earnings. Because people may even have the same internship, but the different earnings they got when they were working. In general, the formula is absolutely transparent and unique to all. Its systemic problems, which have been highlighted since the first stage, have been echoed repeatedly by me, and they are reflected in the fact that the new system of counting and recalculating pensions reflected the social injustice that took place when people worked in the Soviet Union. With a lot of work, and people who have retired before 2000, we estimate 3 million people, of whom 2.5 million are male. Women’s sex and about half a million men, which also speaks of gender inequality, have led people working long hours in colleges, younger medical personnel in hospitals, babysitters in kindergartens, and a number of other institutions with low wages to pay. So at the next stage of the pension reform, the government is going to make them more likely to have their role in the accrual of long-term pensions than their salary, taking into account the social disadvantages that have taken place in previous times. We're working on this issue, and I think we can solve it, because the principle of justice in pension insurance in the government's opinion is central to what we should be looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u22	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Ukraine to the question is asked by Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko. Mr. Prime Minister, on Tuesday, the Radical Party's team called on you on the first day of your release from office as Uljana Suprun's Minister of Health. I say that the government's decision to appoint UljaniSupurun as Minister of Health is illegal because it contradicts the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, in spite of the requirements of the Citizenship Act, Ms. Souprun did not leave American citizenship by obtaining Ukrainian citizenship. In addition, Suprun’s work as head of the Ministry of Health led to this. epidemics of mass. First place in the world is in tuberculosis, AIDS, cardiovascular disease, oncology. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, to cancel the government's decision to appoint Suprun as Head of the Ministry of Health and to appoint a Minister of Health to Parliament. Bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues of the Radical Party faction, you know that I always have great respect for the people's deputies, the questions you ask. I think that your assessment of the health situation is objective, as do millions of Ukrainians. But to say that it happened just because one person is guilty, I think it would be very and very unfair. We have systemic problems that have accumulated in health for years. The Ministry of Health team, together with the government, has worked on a draft of changes that will have a very clear positive effect on the prevention and health of Ukrainians. It's impossible to do that in one day. And if I'm hearing in the media today that they're talking about what the reform was doing, and it didn't do anything, it's, at least, a lie that's coming out of the mouth of other people, I'm not talking about you today, about that. I'm glad we've only opened the door to security. Health and change reforms, we need to unite around this in order to make every decision at this stage positive in relation to Ukrainian citizens. I'm afraid that we have a low life expectancy, I'm afraid of childhood diseases, I'm afraid of epidemics, my soul hurts for people, and that's an obvious fact. But I did not turn my head away from health care as I had for decades since the independence of our nation. And I'm ready to fight for it. I want this system to be adequate. And I would also like to address the minister’s responsibilities, please meet the faction, and answer the questions of colleagues today. And you guys, I'm just inviting you to change the health system together, because we're all responsible for the state of affairs in the country, each one of us, but we're all with you, and we have the opportunity to change this situation. Finally, as soon as the coalition decides on the formatting of the position of the Ministry of Health, this decision will be considered by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. And I'll take your speech into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u25	Thank you. And the final question from the factions of Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I have a question for Igor Stepanovich. Igor Stepanovich, there is no secret that before any of the results are requested, he needs to be invested. I'd like to ask you for a billion dollars to invest in the modernization of coal companies. Is there any result on State guarantees? Will those funds be earmarked for modernization? At what stage will I now consider this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor Mikhailo Leontijovich, for keeping track of the coal industry. I fully agree with you, without investing in the modernization of mines, which not only capture the safety of miners, but significantly change the production of Ukrainian coal will not change. In the previous budget for 2017, MPs have earmarked funding for a billion dollars. Sadly, though, Minfin’s work was completely ruined, and these costs were unreceivable. For a month and a half, we held general meetings. And yesterday, under the chairmanship of Prime Minister of Ukraine, we found an algorithm in the presence of Prime Minister Vladimir Eusebiuszkistion and Minister of Finance. This algorithm is the following. Position one. By the end of March, Minfin promised to provide a billion guarantees for the coal sector. Position of the second. At least 70 percent of the coal sector will be sent to pay. And position three. If this billion is used effectively, it's going to be in the state to upgrade other mines. What's more, I have to say, if the coal program is executed, Ukraine won't need imported coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u28	And please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u29	I just want to add that, really, yesterday I held such a meeting with the Minister of Fuel Energy, together with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and in fact, what was the delay. There's only one delay. We now believe that we need to invest where no one steals anything, and we will create new opportunities and increase our own coal. That was the position of the Ministry of Finance itself. And I support that position. So yesterday, we actually found an algorithm to allocate a billion guarantees to start building new capacities. And we're going to continue to see how effectively this resource is being used to increase the yield of its own coal. We need to reduce coal imports into Ukraine. And that's what we're working on today. And in this we have found understanding and we have determined that by the end of March we will find an algorithm to achieve this goal. And there's a common position here, including the Ministry of Finance. So yesterday we really found an understanding of the efficiency of using these resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Now 20 minutes of questions from the national deputies. And, colleagues who would like to ask questions to government representatives, please record for the discussion. So let's write it down. Please sign up. Rizanenko Pavlo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u31	Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u32	Solovay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u33	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I want to say that Ukrainian Carpathian and Ukrainian mountain areas can be a huge growth point for the development of our state. And it's not just tourism, it's woodworking, it's also organic products. And first of all, that's good logistics. In view of the fact that you often go to the region and communicate with people, I would like to ask you, during 2018, to plan a government retreat in mountain settlements to develop a comprehensive strategy for the development of the very mountain areas that unite Johno-Frankivsk, Lvivsk, Czernovetsek and Zakarpatsk regions. Believe me, one such outgoing session with specific decisions that were not available during independence will allow for a very serious development of Ukrainian mountain areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u34	30 seconds, please. Are you done? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u35	We're done. I've heard of a national MP. Thank you, I agree with you and agree with your assessment that these areas really need special attention, but they also have special opportunities that we need to strengthen. And I think that your idea of having a meeting like this, I think that would be good, and I'll plan it. Within the framework of whether it will be in the framework of a government exit meeting or whether it will be in the framework of a working meeting on the way out, we will decide. But the main thing is not to hold a meeting, the main thing is to make a decision, this is my life principle. So I'm going to include this in my plan, and we're going to do it with you in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u36	For the word, let's say it's Ostrov's Tetjana Georgievna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u37	Dear government officials! I want to point out that Minfin is, in fact, failing a lot of things, especially customs work. But yesterday, the work of investigation in Ukraine was ruined and buried by Parliament. Court-law collapse. From now on, all investigators concerned with the arrest of property, the precautionary measures, the other questions, the expertise, the granting of a search permit, will have to go to the district courts, in particular, the courts at 25 district centres. So I ask you now, Mr. Prime Minister, to express your position as to how the law enforcement authorities are prepared, as the courts are prepared. I'd like a representative of the police or the Ministry of Internal Affairs to tell you how they're going to be dealt with. Provided effective, reasonable periods of pretrial investigation, how the questions of death and burial will be resolved. Are the law enforcement authorities ready to enter into this collapse, which today is followed by investigators to consider their concerns? What about forensics?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Yesterday, as I understand it, the question was being addressed: correction within the framework. in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And no decision was made. I understand that next week Parliament is going to have to fix this situation, which is probably happening, only today has it become legal, as I understand it. We'll see if there's any negative effects or not. But all that needs to be settled is that I think it has to be settled in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. The next week is the plenary. As a government, we fully support the elimination of any problems that inhibit and effectively investigate and so forth. But please give an assessment within the committee, and we'll take it. The only thing I want to ask you. We've adopted a beautiful Act of Masks Show Stop. This law really protects business. And I've heard that there are some point changes they want to make to this law. I ask, please, the Ukrainian National Deputies not to allow this in any way, but to leave the Act "mask show stop." It's only now that business is starting to feel so free to breathe that no one is putting them on the floor, and now I hear there's this kind of effort, so to speak, to destroy this situation. So I would very much like to ask you to do that. to pay special attention. And anything that needs to be corrected, please, we're ready to support, we're ready to send to the committee, to the Ministry of Justice, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to determine our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u39	So, from the Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u40	Good afternoon! I ask you to pass the word to Mrs. Olicherwakovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Ministry of Justice. Mrs. Natalia, I'm here! Good afternoon! I'm going to talk about eternally, that is, the mess in Cotsubinsky: last week, there was another village head declared by some misunderstood man. There was no session, no head, no two-thirds. However, the Ministry of Justice, more specifically, has placed an incomprehensible self - proclaimed person in the register. We've been talking to you all week, to the minister, to the deputies: cancel the illegal registration. For your information, blankets are already preparing tents to live under the Ministry of Justice, because it's a mess! In their village, they'll be proclaiming themselves as a village head, and the Justice Department will say that it can't do anything, that it's decentralization and deregulation. Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u42	30 seconds, but less emotional.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u43	Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, I very much welcome the reform of decentralization, I know you support it, but I ask you to take this issue to control. In Kotsubinsky, this is hell for a decent person, especially under the conditions of non-working law enforcement authorities and under the conditions of the Ministry of Justice. I ask you very much to settle this question. Please state the order. I really hope so, and that's what the population of the 20th-thousand populace expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u44	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Ola. In fact, as part of the reform of the registration service, the Ministry of Justice no longer has registrars, either local authorities or notaries. And if there's some kind of illegal registration, we have a tool -- a commission to deal with complaints in the area of state registration. Indeed, we have already received a complaint from the Ministry of Justice. After the last meeting, we checked, and it met the requirements. The following week, it will be decided on its admission to consideration and will then be considered in substance. And I'm sure if there was a violation, the commission would cancel the registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u46	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question from the representatives of Lvivščina OSBB and the management companies of Lviv. The question is that the debt of the management companies for the payment of benefits and subsidies since November of the 17th year, and the debt of the FSB since January of this year. That's a very good question you have, and you know it. I'm counting on your quick and stately position on solving this problem. Because we want to replace it as a service and transfer it from SovietJECK to modern management companies. And the debts that are being created now are leading to the bankruptcy of these management companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Actually, that was the problem. We have now approved the new Government Order 256 and it. The settlement process has already begun, so I think we're going to have a zero in the 18th year, at least for those plans and tasks in front of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u48	Thank you. He's giving it to Krivenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u49	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a few questions. First. You answered in the coal sector. So maybe you don't have to give the state-runs to the state-owned enterprises, because, according to Minfin, there's a question of control and a question of dissipation in virtually every enterprise in the state. And there's the Ljubljana Mine, and for two years it's beating the thresholds of all your deputies, vice-premiers, who are ready for full paperwork and who's gonna close that coal imports for the Russian metal companies that are now going on, who are also asking for government guarantees that are willing to go into capital. And I'd like you to hold a meeting and get to the bottom of this. It's in Lviv creating thousands of jobs. The second question. On behalf of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna. We're going to the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust. So far, no one has been invited by the Orgcommittee to take these steps in the autumn. The anniversary of the tragedy of Baba’s Yar was invited in a year and a half. The request to take control of this question is the answer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which says no one has been invited yet. And last of all, very short. Health protection introduces the third sex: male, female, and none.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u50	30 seconds. Finish it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u51	Yeah, 30 seconds. That is, the documents of the Ministry of Health now include actually the third sex, we do not have this ratified in legislation. "The People's Movement" has always advocated the preservation of traditional family values and the introduction of "no sex" in the polls. What is your personal view of this matter? Three questions, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking. Well, you're in the mine. You'll be given an answer by the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. I'll start with the third question. I've been talking about, even from the rostrum of Parliament, that I'm completely traditional, and there's nothing else for me. And family values to me are the highest values, one of the highest values. And I don't think it's possible to change me here anymore. In general, I think that we need to strengthen family values; we need to do everything we can to make children grow up in happy families. We still have a lot to do here in order to achieve this goal. With regard to the yearbooks of the Holodomor. On more than one occasion, I expressed my position to honor the memory of the victims of the famine. And I believe that the great crime was in relation to history and to all those who died innocently when in 2010 they stopped any work at all: both research and memory work. This is how the restoration of historical justice was done before 2010, so it was all left on the sidelines. I'm going to put up with this, I think we have to make this tragedy known to everyone around the world. Because it was a terrible tragedy that killed millions of Ukrainians and millions of children. And that's why the government has made a proposal, thank you to the National Deputies for supporting this, to complete the construction of the second line of the "Memory of the Holocaust Victims." And we've actually completed the project-cost documentation created by the organizational committee, and we're going to finish it. I want everyone to know and remember those tragic milestones in the history of our nation, our people, and this is fundamentally important. And this year we have to start this work. And as far as organizational matters are concerned. I've conducted an orgcommittee, there are corresponding orders to ministries, vice-premiers, including the involvement or invitation of foreign guests to participate in these actions. And that's the job that's being done, and it's being played by two vice-premiers. And here I am convinced that there will be no gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Nasalek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u54	And I would like to inform the distinguished National Movement of Ukraine that the Ljubljana Mine is a private mine and unfortunately it is not a public mine. When it comes to lending the Lovellian mine, it's about a billion and a half dollars that are needed. Of course, first of all, we're going to look at -- and now I'm looking at Mr. Guze -- that we're going to look at the completion of the 10th mine, which unfortunately is only 10 million dollars this year. And only after the end of the 10th mine will we consider funding from the state budget of private mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u55	Two national deputies are now uniting their questions. This is Šipko Andri Fedorovich and Ostapčuk Victor speaking to the national deputy Kisse. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, may I have your attention? Vladimir Borisovich, do you read, Vladimir Borisovich? Dear friends, this is the Tarutin region, Odessa region. Vladimir Borisovich, there is no possibility of bringing bread to people in two villages in the area for four years. I am addressing you personally, to intervene in this matter, in this matter. Because stealthodore, the regional structures that work, have no desire, in their words, have no opportunity to make a pass. I'm asking you very much to resolve this matter immediately. This is the first time. Secondly, this road already has valuable documentation. There's a tender. I very much ask that this year there be an opportunity to start reconstructing and capitalizing this road. Please give Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina one last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u57	Is anyone gonna talk?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u58	Thank you, Anton Ivanovich, for your question. I'm sorry I'm late. I just got off the phone with the head of the State Service. I now assigned him to clear the roadblocks and take steps to clear this road and discover the possibility of delivery. And now I'm going to have a relationship with the head of the administration of the Odessa region, and I'm going to tell him what four days is without the possibility of buying people bread. So I've already given an assignment, and now they're going to start dealing with it. As far as the road is concerned. If the tender is carried out, the road will be made if it is included in the plan. I can't believe I'm involved. And I wanted to inform you on the last question that we discussed over and over again. It's a question of our project on the Odessa-Rani construction. We also included it, and we've already agreed on the Odessa-Rani construction as part of the customs experiment from which the costs will come to Odessa. So this road is also in the way. And I think there's every chance this year to complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Teteruk Andrey, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u60	Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir BorisovichGroysman, I have a question about the activities of our Space Agency. Everyone thinks our country is a space state, but unfortunately we don't have any satellites in stationary orbit, we don't have any successful new projects either. Unresponsible personnel policy has led us to have all of the space programs that were implemented at the budget -- that's also Cyclone Four, and Libide -- there's no point in counting. At the same time, the work of the Space Agency is regulated by the approval of the Ukrainian Law on a State-wide Science and Technology Programme, which is approved for five years. The past program ended in 2017. Why doesn't our space agency set up a program of activity for the next five years? Why does this irresponsibility continue? And how long will it take to make appropriate human resources decisions because it's a loss to the image, a loss of the state budget, and we're losing the whole sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u61	I'm sorry, I just got off the phone with the head of the Odessa administration in the Tarutin region, and he's also been assigned to settle this problem. As far as the Space Agency is concerned. Literally in January, I was holding a closed meeting with all the interested parties, and they're now preparing a corresponding new program, and they're going to report it, and I think the next few weeks, its approval will continue. In fact, we're a space country, it's true, we have a number of international projects, we. I've identified three tasks for the Space Agency that they're working on today, including the effectiveness of interaction on international projects. All that we do for internal needs, I don't want to get into this right now, but. Well, there are questions I can't talk about. And we're expecting answers from them now, and this work is going to be presented, and it's going to be considered by the government in a closed mode and made the right decisions. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u62	Thank you. And, colleagues, there can actually be only two more questions. Sisoyenko and Litwin. First, please, Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna. He's handing over Romanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u63	I have a question for Lilia Greenevich, and actually for Vladimir Groysman, too. The budget MPs have repeatedly called attention to the fact that if we pass on higher vocational education and the training that Ukraine needs so much in place, we will eventually get the closure of so much-needed colleges, vocational schools that are now being prepared by young people. Now a critical situation has arisen in the city of Chernigov, where local authorities are planning a so - called merger of a very needed lifeline that prepares snacks for the whole country, for Chernigov, which are so necessary, with another professional school of hairdressers. But in fact, they want to take away the premises that are equipped with Italian equipment, and repairs are done. Please tell me, how are we going to deal with this situation, not just in Montenegro, but throughout the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u64	Thank you so much for your question. Lilia Mikhailna first, and then I'll add. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to inform the National Deputies that the process of transferring property to vocational and technical schools is actually very difficult. And in order for us to transfer the property, we need to form it, take it away. And we are extremely careful about that. Any closure of vocational and technical institutions today should be accompanied by additional support from the Ministry. We didn't give up that kind of agreement and we're going to be looking at every situation, because it's important that we keep this system alive. And we're targeting the regional authority to keep the labour force in the labor market. They have to give very clear justifications. Therefore, we will be careful to deal with this situation, as we do with others. We will not allow uncontrolled closure of vocational and technical institutions. Moreover, all the decisions of local councils to get their balance sheet on these premises have a clear position that they have no right to use them even if any retraining from vocational and technical education is not for educational purposes -- exclusively for the education system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u66	Thank you. I just want to add. First of all, Ukraine needs skilled workers. And the issue of vocational and technical education is extremely important and is at the top of government priorities. Moreover, new opportunities for dual education for these people are now under way. We're just starting this process. The fact that vocational and technical education is not a secret as well as health care has been neglected, which today has led to the shortage of skilled personnel, to the inadequacy of the training of personnel that are being prepared today for billions of public funds, but are being prepared for old technologies. That's why we've decided to modernize a number of programs for the preparation of these skilled personnel. We're putting support there within, I think, 50 million to modernize equipment and so on, and we're going to do everything we can to create a modern and effective network in this country of education, which is very important, and we're going to support it. Now it's about decentralization. Look at the document that the government adopted when I was Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister was Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. We've adopted a strategy for developing local self-government on April 1st, 14th, at number 333. There are a number of basic positions that we have with you today. Both the unification of the territorial communities and the financial capacity and the transfer of authority to the places, including the transfer of taxes. This enabled more than 100 billion resources to be transferred from the central budget to the local budget in these years. And it's also written in this strategy as early as 2014. It says that this level of education is going to be transferred from the central level to the local level -- it's the only balanced system decisions. And our task today is not to close these institutions, but to make them modern, to increase the responsibility of local authorities to manage these processes, to prepare human resources for the regional labour market, for the state labour market. And we, as a state, have to order the training of those personnel that are essential to the economy. Not just lawyers, accountants, but those who need the real economy today. So we have to do it with you in a way that the labor market will eventually meet with a system of training qualified personnel. That's what this job is all about. And once again, the question is not in the number of institutions, but in the capacity of these institutions of expertise. And that's true of higher education. And I've already proposed, and I've given an assignment to the Ministry of Education. Let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, let's do it this way, And let's just get these 10 colleges absolutely free from paying taxes, let's let them do whatever they're collecting, reinvesting, and become even better. It's going to be another economic stimulus for development, but it's going to have to go ahead and make new decisions. So we don't let anyone get away with anything, we all have to be modern and move forward in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you. And the final question is, Lithuania's Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u68	I have my first question to Stepan IvanovichKubiwa, First Vice Prime Minister. On the previous "hour of questions to the government," I was addressing the problem of compensating the heatcommunergo. They did close, and in February the month of December was closed. Now, let's say in Novograd Wallinsky, and this is a military city, this debt is 12 million. Stepan Ivanovich, I would like to take appropriate measures because there is a tense social situation. And the second question is to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please explain why people have been punished by 200,000 people without a subsidy for socio-economic development. These are four areas and a number of cities in the Gitomir region, all of them received, and they didn't get them. For me, the reason is obvious, but please explain to people why this happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say that what I promised last time, I did. I held an appropriate meeting with the relevant ministries. And yesterday we had a conversation with you that the state of 13.03 listed the subsidy for benefits and housing subsidies to the population, including the cancellation of the debt, which was on January 1, 2018. I want to say that within the allocation of 19 billion 994 million to the district budget in the Gitomir region, there are 625 million. For electricity – 39.6, natural gas – 402 million, heat – 130, water and water – 20, apartment, one salary – 33. The second part that you've given me today, I'll figure it out again in literally three or four days, I'll let you know. On the other hand, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Daniluk. Subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u70	And, please, a closing statement. Please, the closing word already. Who didn't answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u71	Daniluk. Mr. Alexander, the people's deputies are asking you questions. Please gather your thoughts and give an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u72	I'm sorry, I just got distracted. I will. Let me take that as a request and answer formally then, officially for three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u73	That's a solid answer. Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir BorisovichGroysman is invited to the closing remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear fellow national deputies, thank you for your questions. The questions you have asked about specific questions will be handled by the government and you will receive the answer. And in general, I would like to thank you once again for adopting the very important, the work and adoption of the important laws and the European integration that were adopted this week, and also from that common package of 35 laws, it has already been considered, adopted. Actually, I think, dear colleagues, we need to make some new mechanism for passing laws that affect economic development and economic growth. Because if I look at what we need to adopt 35 laws there, it can. It could take two or three years to pass these laws. And the economy doesn't wait, people want to live better, we need to produce more products, we have a lot to do about paying off external debt and so on. So we still need to work on creating some mechanisms for the rapid adoption of the necessary economic laws that directly affect economic growth and the well-being of people. Once again, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to stress once again that the government is ready for further interaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u75	Thank you. "The year of questions before the government" is over. [[Applause]] Let's thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in our meeting. Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. And I remind you that according to the Rules we have Friday time for reading and announcing parliamentary requests. And I pass on the word to read out the questions to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear fellow ministers, before you leave, let me make one announcement. Today, as a sign of solidarity with the Crimean Tatars, with the Crimeans, with the Ukrainians remaining in the occupation of Crimea, the Ukrainian Parliament is hosting the Day of the Crimean Tatar Kitchen. And in all the buffets today, there is a Crimean Tatar kitchen presented to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the parliamentary buffets now, and support this good initiative as well. And let us work together, of course, not only for such important acts of solidarity in the Ukrainian Parliament, but for the support of Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, and the liberation of Crimea. And now we're moving on to the announcement of parliamentary questions and we have 246 requests from Ukrainian national deputies today. Among those questions is a request to the President of Ukraine, and as you know, it needs a vote. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues right now. And the request to the President of Ukraine from the National Deputies (Stashuka, Dirovata others – groups of 10 colleagues) for the cessation of unjustified pressure on the Pontem Society. UA" by individual officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Colleagues, I ask you to vote for this request. Please. [[11:12:32]] For-58
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u77	It doesn't take up the necessary amount. So I go to other questions from colleagues to other authorities. Julius Timoshenko to the Cabinet of Ministers on urgent measures to overcome the crisis in the activities of the East Mining and Enrichment Company and to protect the labour rights of Smolinsky, Ingolski and Novocostinian mines. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of ambulances to the Regional Integrated Community of the Romani Region of the Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the provision of funds for rapid intervention in connection with the replacement joint of Skidan Leonid Petrovich, a resident of the village of Stanishivka in the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. I'm sorry. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the reform of the State Employment Service. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a modern Child Treatment Methodology with a State-level diagnosis of PDP. JuriyaLevchenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the unobjective conduct of the judicial investigation by the Shevchenkov Police Department of the HUNP in Kiev and for the improper response of the prosecutor’s authorities. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Director-General of DTEKENERGO, the Director of the State Enterprise of the State of the State for the violation of the terms and conditions of Burstin and Good faith TES PAS "Westeringo". Mikhail Bondara dot. ................................................................................. Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District State Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, on the repair of the road of local importance C140844-New Condition – Honesty (Lviv-Luck). SergiaLabazuka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Hmelny district government for the implementation of medical reform in Ukraine SergiaLabazuka to the procurator's office of the Hmelnicke District, Hmelnicke District State Administration for the operation of the operational headquarters to respond to the raiding of companies in the Hmelnicke district. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the release from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 of funds for the capital repair of the Lebedin-Chupachovka-Ochtirka road, which passes through the territory of Lebedinsky and Ohtyr district of the Sumy region. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister, on Disbursement from the State Budget for 2018, funds for the capital repair of the Lebedin-Lipov Valley road, which passes through the territory of the Labedin and Lipovodolin regions of the Summum region. Igorya Shurma to the Minister of Education and Science, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the illegality of funding of the State Organisation "Centre for the Professional Competence of Professionals with Higher Education Directions of Preparation of Medicine and Farmation". Igorya Shurma to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of the ILO workers responsible for the purchase of terminated medical supplies and the short-term suitability that led to their corruption and destruction. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister, Defence Minister for the allocation of 128 million dollars from the state budget for the necessary repair of the Dniprovski Military Hospital. Valery Pisarenka to the Head of the BSC on the verification of the possible violation of legislation by officials of the BSP Department in the Kharkiv region as part of the criminal conduct of exports of the production of the Institute of Monocrystals of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the proper financial care of those who have adopted children. IgoryaGuza to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent funding of educational subsidies from the State budget to local budgets to pay salaries to pedagogical workers. IgoryaGuseja to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to transfer part of the room to the Wallin Regional Laboratory in the use of the State Border Service of Ukraine. Oxana Sold to the Acting Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the issue of reshaping licenses for retail liquor and tobacco products in connection with changes in the RRO. Oleg Barna to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the restructuring of the State Water Agency and the creation of the Dniestrov Basin Authority. Oleg Barna to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources on the possibility of illegal mining of useful fossils, namely gravel, sand within the National Natural Park "Dnistrovski Canyon" and the strategically ordered "Grodotocko-Dobrovljanski". Groups of National Deputies (Kurila, Kudlajenka, only 14th) to head the Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration for financing the construction of a new railway to connect the railway routes of the northern Lugansk region with the railway routes of all Ukraine on the basis of the crossing of the Svatov-Biloukurakine railways. Natalia Weselova to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the closure of the No. 142 in the Solomonian district of Kyiv. Natalia Weselova to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the closure and possible raid of license No. 142 in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Igor Kotwiczky to the head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine on the provision of information on countering cyberattacks. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister for the lack of authority to see real problems of radiation pollution as a result of an accident at the Chernobyl atomic station in the Plains region and the lack of adequate social protection for their inhabitants. TarasaBathenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the construction of a factory for the processing of solid household waste in the territory of the Split State Mining and Chemical Company Sirka located in the Mikolai district of Lviv district and for conducting independent expertise in the area. Oleg Musia to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the need to activate pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct and other matters. Oleg Musia to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutional application of 26 June 17 on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine (constitutionality) of section C, section 5, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance from March 2, 15th, No. 213-U.S. in part of the annulment of June 1, 15th, of the rules on the appointment of monthly permanent maintenance of civil servants and article 90 of the State Service Act of 10.12.2015 No. 889-VIII. Yeah, that was 213-VIII, too. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of state housing programmes for young families and internally displaced persons. Panels of Nardeps (Jurika, Dekhtyrczuk and others; only 4 colleagues) to Henprocuror Ukraine on the proper protection of the rights of victims in criminal proceedings No. 12015140090000525. IriniSiyenko to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the purpose of clarifying the financing of health - care facilities — municipal non - commercial enterprises at the expense of the State Budget. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister to provide funding for the educational sector of the city of Bila Church. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for State social assistance, foreign passports, disability groups, pensions and other documents. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the full restoration of taxpayers' tax rights. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister for the restoration of a direct rail passenger connection between the capital of Ukraine and the Lugansk region. SergiaDunejeva to the Head of the National Anti - Corruption Agency regarding the commission of the Lysican City Head, Shilin Sergey Ivanovic, a corruption-related offence and his liability under the law. SergiaDunejeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the pretrial investigation into the actions of the Lysican City Head, Szylin Sergio Ivanovich, on the evidence of the crime provided for in article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. RuslanaDemczak to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on how to conduct a competition for the election of municipal directors of general secondary education. RuslanaDemczak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, on the state-wide target program "Drinking Water of Ukraine". Vitalia Gudzenka to the Chief of the Road Service in Kiev for the capital repair of the local district road O 100205 / Kiev-Fastev-Bila Church-Tarashta-Zwenigradka /- Amendment-Cherkas-Ozerna Bilocerkow district of Kyiv Region. VitaliaGudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for active financing in 2018 for the construction and capital repair of roads for general use in the Biloczerkowsk and Tarostian regions of the Kyiv region. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Regional Public Administration on the need to expand the list of medicines to be reimbursed under the "Available medicines" programme. Vasilyanicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration to resolve the issue of free feeding of pupils in schools in the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. AlexiaRubkin to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, temporarily acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of deforestation in the territory of the Milov district of Lugansk and the cessation of violations of forest legislation. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the restructuring of the Lubshewiska Water Administration. LjubomirZubada to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of compensation for the transport of passengers of categories of benefits in public transport. Groups of National Deputies (Cervakova, Ritchka, Pavlova) to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the violation of the housing rights of orphans and children, deprived of parental care and ensuring the right of the child to be adopted. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the opaque use of the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation of the project "Modernization of the Social Support System of Ukraine". Irina Konstankevitch, before the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to solve the problem of the purchase of drugs that are necessary for the sick but are not included in the National List of Basic Medical Devices. DmitraŠenceva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-regulatory issue of decommissioning from higher educational institutions of the state form of property of multiple apartment buildings. Alexander Marchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development for Privatization of the UTOS Hostel. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Acting Director-General of PAT "The Crucifixion" for the emergence of social tension among citizens associated with the closure of the post offices and the creation of barriers to service. Pavlov Rizanenka to the Head of the Supervisory Board of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukranafta", head of the Management of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukranafta" for the provision of annual, financial and audit reports to Pat "Ukranafta" in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards. PaulRizanka to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on the use of appropriate response measures aimed at paying off the debt on salary to the employees of the D.P. "THE PREPARATION OF THE POLISH METALLURY". Edward Matviychuk to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, for an objective review of the appeal made by Zapolska Larissa Volodymyrina and Salova Nina Mikolayovna on the need to clarify the size of pension payments and to provide other comprehensive assistance. Andrija Kota to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the first-line re-establishment of the right bank of the Sveč River and the prevention of an extraordinary technological situation for the protection of the villages of Melnić, Lutinka of the Jewish region of Lviv. Ruslana Solvara to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of assistance to the resident of the village of Malopolovetske Fastovice region of Sweden, Valentini Pavlovni, who suffered as a result of the fire. RuslanaSolvara to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Acting Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Kiev, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the repair of the roads of Fastovsk, Skurirsk, Makarovsk and Kyivo-Svetoshinsk region of the Kyiv region. Andrija Lopushanski to Minister of Culture, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the Lviv District Office for the Memorial of the Sagittarius of the Ukrainian Galician Army in Sambor of the Lviv Region until the 100th anniversary of the creation of the West Ukrainian People's Republic in November 2018. Andrija Lopushanski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKK, Head of State Border Services, Minister of Infrastructure for Change in the State Cross-border Cooperation Development Programme for 2016-2020 and the State Target Law Protection Program for State Border Area and Reconstruction by 2020 on the creation of new crossing points across the state border and the development of border infrastructure. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the critical condition of road N23 in the Kropinicki-Clove Rig area. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on government debt and international loans. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Infrastructure for the Inadmissibility of Reducing the Postal Offices of Pat "Krošta" in the rural settlements of the Chernigiv region. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy for the Settlement of Payments and Population Grants for Electricity Consumption to Legal Persons - "Transiters". MaximaBurbaka and Mikoli Fedoruka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of the renovation and restoration work of the premises of the Czernovetsk National University of Jurija Fedeković. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister to increase funding in the fields of gardening, winemaking and winemaking in 2018. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the increase (calculation) in the pensions of former civil servants of district government administrations. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers for the preservation of the University of State Fiscal Service. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the Žitomir District Administration, the head of the National Police Department in the Žitomir Region, the head of the State Environmental Inspection in the Žitomir District, in connection with pollution of the environment in the village of Ivanovka, the Žitomir district. DmitraDomova to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Herson Region, on the immediate launch of a fisheries patrol in Hersonland in the context of the reform of the fisheries sector of Ukraine. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the procedure for obtaining a certificate from the participant in the fighting. Melnik's Sergei to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Economic Development and Trade for the Use of Accountancy Registers in Trade of Certain Clocks. Alexander Nechayeva to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the question of the organization of traffic in Suma County. Alexander Nechayeva, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the immediate resolution of the issue of the provision of medical equipment by the Šstkin Interstate Anti - Tubular Dissponser in the Sumski district. JurijaLevchenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the non-destruction of the facade of the Ukrainian Institute of Science and Technology and Information on Antonović Street, 180 in Kiev, built in 1971 under the project of architects Lviv Novikova and Florian Juriev in the style of modernism. AlexanderKirsch to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the renewal of gas supply in a residential building on Krechevsky Street, 33 in Kharkiv. Romana Matzoli to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor of the Criminal Investigation of the death of ATO soldier Koval Maksim Aleksandrovitch. Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnick district government to resolve the issue of financing the repair of the road of the local value of Shepetovka Plješčin. Vladimir Gusak to Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the use of the budget programme "State Budget Grants for Local Budgets for the Construction/Reconstruction of Sports Palaces". Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on taking into account the characteristics of the rural school and providing the right conditions for the training of future high school students. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the change of procedure of the State Treasury. Alexander Opanasenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the illegal logging of trees in the village of Zdravivka, Sloboda, Butovka of the Cherniewec region. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Prosecutor of the Hersson Region, Head of the National Police Department of the Hersson Region for Information on the Legality of the Extraction of Sand, the Capture of Living Bioresources and the Excision of Forests, as well as the conduct of prohibited types of gaming business, the circulation of narcotics and illegal possession of foreign crops, agricultural technology and agricultural land and other assignments in the Hersonian region in 16-18 years. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the head of the Herson district administration, the head of the Herson district council for information on the legality of sand mining, the capture of living bioresources and deforestation in the Herson area for 17-18 years. Sergey Vlasenka to the governing directors of a limited-liability association, the Company of Asset Management, the Investment Capital of Ukraine, for the purchase of the largest share of the Russian restaurant's stock of fast food by the investment banker of the President of Ukraine. SergijaVlasenka to the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration for appointment as President of Ukraine, Peter Dustenk, Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sergey Head, who contributed to the usurpation of power by Viktor Janukovič. OlegaCulinic of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need to review the size of the reverse grant for the Mirgrodska RDA. Julia Ioffe to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, to settle the issue of the appointment and holding of the first elections in the Mountain City’s unified territorial community of the Lugansk region. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support for the construction of the Bahmutovka-Svijerodonetsk railway line in the Lugansk region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the illegal removal of the allowance of teachers in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Audit Service, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the investigation of the anti-Ukraine activities of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine", the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the Ukratranshazu. The Group of Deputies (Romanov, Petrenka and others – only 8 of our colleagues) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the Czernigian Professional Lifeline and its integration with another educational institution. Groups of National Deputies (Silantiev, Shurma and others – only 20 National Deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for preparing the Ukrainian National Assembly Team for the World Championship of Light Athletics in the premises and contempt for the national symbolism of Ukraine. Alexander the Great to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the head of the Central Administration of the State of Kiev on the likely cartel plot, the abuse of monopolistic status, and so forth, resulting in an unwarranted annual increase in prices in the cut flowers market during the seasonal increase in demand for flowers in mid-February and early March. Alexander Brygin, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenka, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the General Administration of State for Food in Kiev on the possible violation of the Ukrainian Advertising and Copyright and Associated Rights laws for music works by the radio stations of Ukraine, discrimination during broadcasting and the uneven distribution of Ukrainian musical works. Jaroslava Moskalenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the violation of democratic values and for the capture of power by a group of local deputies in the village of the city type of Kotsubinsk Kyiv region and the unlawful actions of the State registrar. Igor Popov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the Uninterrupted Nutrition of Schoolchildren. Sergio Leschchenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the attack on women's rights activists in Uzhgrad on March 8th. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure to execute The Pecher Court's approval on payment of expertise for destruction in the area of ATO housing. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the allocation of funds to compensate for the cost of insulin products in the Vižinsky region. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the solution of the problematic issue of the issue of the production of a succession test by officials of the local authorities of the Kamyan, Smilian and Cherka district of the Cherkas region authorized to do notary work (indictment). Sergey Rudika until acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health, Finance Minister of Ukraine, to resolve the problem of securing the payment of salaries to medical personnel in the city of Smila Cherkaskie district in 2018. Andrija Illenka is acting as director of the Kyivmiskswitlo utility company for the establishment of external energy-saving LED lighting on the main main highways in the right-wing and Dniprov district of Kyiv. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for bringing the area to proper standing at the Kyiv Metro station of Lisova and foreclosure of the construction of a commercial entertainment complex in part of Kyoto Park. Alexandre Compromise to the Kiev City Head on the improper financing of measures to repair interquartal passages and asphalt cover of instigating areas in Kiev. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for information on government drug purchases for 2016-2017. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Social Policy for the introduction of the profession of "a child with special educational needs" to the Classifier of professions DK 003:2010 with the aim of preventing violations of the constitutional rights to education of children with special educational needs and to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on preschool education. Victor Krivenk to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev for information on criminal conduct. Alexander Dombrovski’s temporary responsibility as Ukrainian Minister of Health to ensure the treatment of a pregnant child. Alexander Dombrovski, until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health, was responsible for providing treatment for a severely ill child in the Heisin district of Winnick. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of the right to housing of an army with disabilities, 2 groups. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to pay off the debt from the benefits and subsidies for utilities in the area of Žitomir. OlegaOsuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the restoration of human rights to a decent, viable residence. John Melniczuk, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the County District Administration, the head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, to take urgent action to implement the right of persons with disabilities (weary patients) to receive adequate and timely medical care and rehabilitation. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the enforcement of a court order for the social protection of the disaster liquidator of the Chernobyl AES. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Colomia City Head of the region of Ivano-Frankow on the provision of information and on the use of measures to respect the housing rights of internally displaced persons in Cologne. Alexia Goncharenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for taking urgent measures to establish and investigate the circumstances and facts that led to the fire at the Broad Lan general military field, which resulted in the death of one and the loss of seven soldiers from the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Including taking personal control within the scope of competence: carrying out a review of information published in many Ukrainian media, on the existence of signs of the looting of state funds during the construction of a brigade camp on the Broad Line site, the total cost of which amounts to about 370 million dollars; conducting a judicial investigation in two criminal proceedings, set out in part two of article 412 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Unwary destruction or damage to military property that has led to serious consequences" and under part three of article 425 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Disturbation of Military Service". Romana Semimenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of violations caused by the recalculation of subsidies for services from central heating to citizens in apartments and entrances to multi-room buildings that had no thermal energy calculation during the heating season of 2016/17 years. Roman Semenha to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration, Chuguyev City Head for the transfer to the communal property of the hostel at the address of the city of Chuguyev, 64-b Evil Street. Yurya Bereza to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on the issue of work to pay off the debt from the wages paid to employees of the State Water Company (DNIPRO). Jurya Solovya to Prime Minister of Ukraine for building a bridge crossing in Kosovo to 77 + 397 R-24 Tatarov Kamyanec - Podilski. Yuri Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of land for ATO participants. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the financing of pensioners' benefits in urban and suburban public transport. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the restoration of a joint treatment program in the Republic of Cuba for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district council for directing from the district budget expenditure to the capital repair of the Yampil public education school in the third degree of the Bilogir district of the Hmelni district. Andrija Šinkoviča and Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district council for directing from the district budget expenditure to the capital repair of the building (the thermo-modernization) of the Isiaslav NVC "Why and the degree of kindergarten of combined type 6", the city of Isaslav Hmelnicki district. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the failure to implement the Kiev City Council Decision No. 29/1932 of 24 September 2015. Borislava Berezi. That's it. Are you all right? [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a long time to read, so don't be distracted! Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the construction of preschool facilities in the village of Bikown. Dmitry Schenzev to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine for the restoration of live radio communication in the Dvoričany district of Kharkiv. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the investigation of the arson of the Black Sea City Council’s deputies. Vasil Guljava to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the systematic pressure of fiscal officials on the Colossus TOV. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of violations of the rights of citizens guaranteed free travel in public transport, the provision of financial assistance to local self-government authorities to compensate for the cost of the payment of certain categories of citizens and the non-absorbing of the abuse of office with budgetary resources. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Jaroslava Markevich to the Court of Auditors on the verification of activities and the financing of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Oksana Bilozer to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the application of measures to protect the rights of military personnel of the Ukrainian Special Operations Force. Antonakisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of export issues from Ukraine of animal food for residents of border areas. Antonakisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the entry into force of the local crossing point across the state border of Ukraine for the road connection Visočanské-Triotice. PavlovKishkar to the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrattransgaz", the National Shareholder Company "Naftogaz Ukraine" on the formation of a questionable and hopeless debt owed by GRC operators. Paul Kishkar and Viktor Krivenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sanctions of the Open Shareholder Society "Herson cotton combination". Yurya Derevyanka to the temporarily acting Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for State Oversight (Control) to comply with the requirements of the laws on environmental protection of the Burstine thermal power station PAT "DTEK ZACHYDENERGO", located in the city of Burstin, Ivano-Frankiv district. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take measures to prevent the reduction of revenues to local budgets from land payments for mining enterprises for mining and mining. Viktora Galasuka and Victor Vuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on organizational, institutional, and financial security for an objective assessment of the effectiveness of scientific institutions in Ukraine. PaulJublik to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding illegal logging. IrinasConsensual to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens held in the penitentiary institutions of the Greek Republic for committing crimes related to the smuggling of migrants. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures to continue the construction of clean-up facilities and water supply networks in the city of Berdichów in the Žitomir region. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of stepping up investigations into criminal conduct and bringing to justice those responsible for hiding the crime. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuka, Dirova and others; only 10 of our colleagues) to the Kiev City Head on ending unwarranted pressure on PONTEM. UA" by individual officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Lunchenko and others; only 4 colleagues) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the provision of a transparent distribution mechanism, processing and use of permits for international road transport. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine on the systematic violation of the rule of law by failing to instruct the Council of Judges of Ukraine in the terms of official response to parliamentary appeals established by law. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the Regional Department of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in Kiev on the use of measures to register the right to an object of cultural heritage, the building and monument of the House Court architecture. Yuri Babia to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the release of the bus to the Criopolski NVC. Eduard Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to review the appeal of Didenk Vitalia Vijacheslavovich and Didenko Zoya Juryivna, residents of the city of Odessa and Odessa, on the harmonization of legislation in the field of health care and on the constitutional right of children to education. Dear colleagues! I completed the announcement of requests from Ukrainian MPs. I'm calling a break from Ukraine until 12. I'm sorry. I now announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 12:30, and then we will have an hour and a half for performances under the heading "Rizzne." I remind all my distinguished colleagues that, following the initiative of our Crimecatatarian organizations, it is now taking place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Crimean Tatar Kitchen, and I wish you to take a break to enjoy these dishes in the buffets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. The break ends. We're waiting. Please return to the session room in one minute. Dear Lord of the faction, we're waiting for other colleagues, perhaps less sportsmen, who are now on their way to the session room. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the session room, because we are about to have a record of willing colleagues who would like to take advantage of this time and opportunity to sign up and perform in the "different" section. I understand that all those who wish have gathered. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for those national MPs who are looking forward to performing on Friday in our traditional "Virgin" performances. Please sign up. Yes, I'd like to consult with you, Your Honor, that we're working exactly an hour and a half. Everyone who is present in the hall and wants to be able to speak, I'll give you that chance, and Mr. Palamarczuk will be there as well. Is that right? That's right. Please, Your Honor Igor Shurma, you are the first to appear in our letter today. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u79	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. On this stand today, I was forced by the lack of information from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Groissman, and I ask the presiding lady to count my statement with an official request. What was the point, and why was there no answer? The official portal of the U.S. State Financial Service states that the federal tax system of the United States has three main features: individual income, social insurance, and corporate income. The federal individual income tax is collected from the entire working population, regardless of the place of residence and the place of work. The second, in terms of federal taxes, is the social insurance tax, which is derived only from income from wages, including wages. I would like to remind you that on July 27, 2016, the Prime Minister of Ukraine signed an order to suspend the duties of Ukrainian Health Minister on Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. Two years in a row, we're told that there's a consultation on the proposal for a minister. The prime minister of Ukraine or simply throws a stone towards the Supreme Council, showing that there is no coalition. If there's a coalition, there's a candidate. Well, you can't look at a candidate for two years, either put it in the hall or not. Meanwhile, the time had come and in line with migration legislation, Mrs. Ulyana Suprun should have been determined whether she was a Ukrainian citizen or not. Whether she's organizing her exit from the United States of America, for example. Unfortunately, the President's decree to grant citizenship today is not on the official website, and I don't understand what the criteria were for employing this person in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's not the same thing as a diploma, but it's a different question. And I don't want to raise these questions, they already sound pretty often. I just want to make sure that our Cabinet of Ministers doesn't become a laughingstock for the whole world. Mrs. Ulyana has to pay taxes, such as individual income and income on social insurance, as defined by the U.S. Federal Tax System. Does she pay those taxes to the United States Federal Service or not? So that it doesn't turn out to be, working here, getting paid, we're going to be witnesses that in this Cabinet of Ministers there's a man who's a tax violator of the United States. Therefore, I ask that my statement be regarded as a question of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we have now gone there to unify our statement, and for six minutes now we are given the word of his colleague, Linko and Chižmar, to Mr. Lozov. I ask them to be deleted from the list of speeches.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u81	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "By the time the lie goes halfway around the world, the truth wears pants," wrote British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Dear citizens, all of you have witnessed a totally dirty, cynical and disgusting media company that started with openly paid publications and plots, which unfortunately, because of its ignorance or deliberately captured many people who just didn't get away with it, dirty, cynical and disgusting to discredit me in order to black out our team because they were afraid of us, told us that because of Lozov's treatment, they wouldn't be able to bury a man on March 15th. March 15 was already over. And what, so many apologized? I thank those who have found it. who admitted that they were wrong and found an opportunity to apologize. I thank those honest journalists who have helped to bring the truth to people. Thank you to the legal environment and to the rights advocates who tell the public, and why this dirty, disgusting, cynical campaign. You know, I'm fat, and I'm used to constant public attacks over the years. Anyway, I feel very sorry for the people. Who would think of an unhappy grandmother or grandfather who had heard or seen if someone had learned about this lie and had been genuinely concerned? Those who did this dirty campaign, these selling snakes that belong to the oligarch of Cologne and the urban head of Lvov Andrey Sadov, who began this moment, did not think about the people. In this situation, I am deeply hurt by those unfortunate fellow citizens who have experienced this lie. And our political opponents. They want to black out our Iron Party team of Oleg Láska's Radical Party before they're telling such nonsense, they're scaring people. What does this talk about? That they don't care about people, that they're so afraid of us, they're so afraid of people's anger, they're so afraid of the truth, they're willing to cross any moral boundaries. Why, in addition to wanting to defile us, did this disgusting, lying campaign arise? Just because I'm really proud of what I'm doing and I really know that many people who are critical of it have not read it or understood it is the most anti-corruption right in the history of modern Ukrainian legislation. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians lost their jobs or lost their lives during independence. I got a call from a lawyer, 12 years without a sentence. Our colleague, Igor Musiyczuk, in the case of Vasilk terrorists, spent two and a half years with Sergey Beaz and Vladimir Spara in prison without a sentence. In the country, all the authorities in the country who were twenty - seven years of age were perfectly clear. Today, we have all seen entrepreneurs in places, the prosecutor, or the mint, or the esbéucher open the case to, if you'll excuse me, happen or put down the business. [[Applause]] When they're being held in the middle of nowhere. There is a story that many of you know, the story of Love Kushinski. For 20 years, five months and four days, this woman sat in prison without a sentence just because she couldn't, sorry that the other person couldn't share her husband with another woman, another woman then the Justice Minister Susan Stanic had her locked up. Love spent more than 20 years in the U.S.S.A. without judgment. Thanks to the efforts of those concerned, journalists such as Eugene Kiselov, lawyers of Andria Fedura, Zoe Jaros, our one-party Valentina Rudenko, many other deserving people, Love today would be at large and still be sitting. And so many examples. And why. You, your fellow citizens, pay attention to the tremendous opposition that goes on the side of all the power structures. They have united unanimously against our real reform, against my law, which breaks the corruption schemes that break the multimillion - dollar rations. When every month the prosecutor, the investigator, the esbéacher takes from people what they've earned for their entire lives is fair property, when people, when entrepreneurs take away their business, thus taking away jobs and people. And if today, whatever they're not making up, please pay attention, citizens of honor! – to discredit my claim to black out. They told us six months ago, Gorbatuk, who in four years as head of the Henprosecutor's Department of Investigations, collapsed all the cases in Maidan, four years later -- no one's sitting. No one is responsible. And now he's telling the story. He was telling me that Midan's business was going to collapse because of what I did. You know, here, I'm sorry, there's an anecdote about what's stopping the bad guy, you all know. What prevents the bad prosecutor? Bad prosecutor is hampered by Lozov’s law. They've done all the things on Maidan, they've said, they can't do anything now because of what I've done. Notice how cynical and disgusting they lie. Now they're going to scare people, they're going to panic, they're going to tell them there's going to be problems with funerals. All citizens have already learned that this is a lie. Dear fellow countrymen, draw conclusions and do not believe the liars, such as the 1+1 oligarch of Colomoyski, who stole $6 billion from Ukrainians, such as the 24 channel belonging to Sadov. Gardens are 12 years old, the city head of Lvov and has led one of the most beautiful cities in the world to a garbage collapse. For 12 years, there hasn't been a garbage factory, people have died -- he hasn't even apologized for it! Believe the truth and know that they fear us; they fear you, men; they fear that you will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, now six minutes is given to the national deputy, Mr. Krivenk, who is also given the word of his colleague, Kishkar Paul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u83	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Yesterday was a hard and stressful day for us. I'd like us to talk more questions about Nazbank anyway. I voted in red, i.e. I voted against Jacob Smoliah’s appointment. With all the information you've got, you're a professional, you're smart. But unfortunately, he's going to continue this Mrs. Guntar thing, which, to my deep conviction, is a fantastic crime against the Ukrainian state, is a violation of the National Bank Act. And yesterday, a lot of my parliamentary colleagues from different factions, I think, were absolutely right about how much the National Bank didn't do and what it should do. And we also see these hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their investments because, on the one hand, we're closing the bank, its assets go into the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and then all of Ukraine sees five million dollars worth of bribes being paid to take some property away for stealing some part of it, and the investors, the simple people who think about it. So I really hope that Mr. Smolius, as if he's already stopped making this deposit-certificate affair, when all business with no money, no credit, and Natzbank is taking deposits from private banks and paying them a normal percentage. Why do banks look for customers, take risks, take deposits, and give credit to Natzbank's deposit certificates. And dozens and dozens of crimes that have been committed. For more than two years, we demanded that Mrs. Guntarev resign for almost three years. I signed under this decree as early as the 15th year. And it finally came to an end. But I'm very afraid that as Nazbank of the Bank managed, it's going to continue, and we're not going to see any change. I really want to make a mistake. If Mr. Smolius takes politics to support the Ukrainian business, the policy is right, I'm the first to support it. Next. This morning, I was addressing our Prime Minister, and one of the questions was, enough to give guarantees to businesses, enough to tolerate such an organizational legal form as state-owned enterprises. How do the lions differ from the right? The socialists, the lions, they say, everything in property must be free. The right ones say: Give a private initiative, give a chance. The state has to become a partner, the state has to become a governor to help the business get back on its feet. In every family until we are 18 years old, we help our children under the age of 16, and then we become partners. Those who try to tell their children at the age of 40 have a problem with these children. They are handicapped and will not grow up to be normal. We see 3,000 companies. Yeah, there's a very small percentage of honest business executives like Lycolite, KGB Arsenal, Users Oleg, KB Luc, units. But nothing bad happened if even 10-20 percent of these companies belonged to businesses in the United States. If I had 10 percent in my native Yulmashi would be Boeing, for example, Antonova, under hard investment agreements, and what kind of investment they would bring, what kind of technology they would bring, how many jobs would they create, what markets they would bring. Boeing is done in 160 countries around the world. Unfortunately, we have problems with that, and we want to keep this monopoly of red directors and keep giving them state guarantees. I can give you a simple example of the state guarantee given to the South Bank. On November 29, 2004, they accounted for $150 million. The 30th is the Orange Revolution -- they go to their bank under 6 percent of the year when the night was 140 during the revolution. The state paid $150 million to create the Cyclone, our Brazilian joint project. What's next? They paid for all this money in 2014. There is no project, no end to the water, they cover themselves, they didn't even send people to close this project to at least get something back for Ukraine. State - owned enterprise. Here's an example of how private companies do it. This is a techno-economic justification for 9 mines that will allow us not to import coal from Russia. Last year, 13.6 million tons of coking coal came from Russia, and we're fighting them. And we still want to keep this monopoly of companies. Or maybe we should, let's leave the control package in the state and call the investors. Ukrainians are better off than being 100 percent owned by the state. What if at least 20 percent were owned by a French railway company, a German, an American company. There'd be a discussion in the middle, they wouldn't be able to steal as much as they steal. And unfortunately, we see that when we just need support from the state, ready to finance the Chinese project that I've been sounding, the Lubelska mine in Lvivska, thousands of jobs, Ukrainian production, we don't drive imports from Russia, we don't even have support, we can't get a letter of support. And then we want to give it to the mines. Unfortunately, I see huge problems in our policy and energy too. Finally, I wanted to ask the journalists. We have a sad date -- March 25th, March 19th, when Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola was killed, I wanted to ask for both central channels and local channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you had six minutes. Thank you. Next performance, Mr. Galasuk. Dear colleague, there's a big performance, you've had six minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Please. Thank you very much. You have to bet on the rules. Please, Mr. Galasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u85	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, those who order instead of Ukrainian factories, give them abroad to foreign factories, they steal jobs with you Ukrainians, they steal taxes from the Ukrainian budget, and they essentially steal the future of our country with you. There is a need to limit the laundering of taxpayers’ costs, which is due to the state’s purchase of imported goods abroad. The product that Ukraine produces itself or is capable of producing itself. In order for the Kiev affair with the purchase of imported trams, when 2 billion bracelets were given to the Polish factory, instead of giving Lviv "Electron" to the Lviv "Electron" instead of giving Dniprovski, Odessa "Tatra-South" to the Zaporozki producers in Poland. In order for this never to happen again, we need to immediately adopt the Ukrainian Buy, Pay Ukrainians Act. [[Applause]] In his interview with Voice of Ukraine, the president of the Electron concert Yuri Grigorovich Bubes stressed this. The Electron concert is a decoration of the Ukrainian industry, it's a decoration of the city of Lviv, it's a powerful machine-building holding that grew from a small workshop, and today it's a huge successful Ukrainian enterprise. I'm asking you to show me the slides. This company has, think of it, 23,000 shareholders, 23,000 shareholders. In this company, a salary of between 12 and 14,000 dollars is paid. Look at the wonderful production they produce. Next slide, please. In addition to trams, they make electric buses, they make special vehicles, they produce electronics, they produce household appliances, they produce military equipment, all of this is Ukrainian modern manufacturing. Next slide, please. These talented young people, the authorities who order abroad and the migrants who speak out against the Buy Ukrainians, they steal jobs from them. Thus, youth unemployment in Ukraine is nearly 30 percent. As a result, millions of talented Ukrainians emigrate abroad. We'll put an end to this. And it's very obvious to me that when Ukrainian producers, taxpayers, employers, go for "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians." And individual government officials and grantors, pseudo-economic experts, are against it, so it's very obvious to me who needs to be heard. We're going to build a strong Ukrainian industry and an economy -- there's going to be success and democracy in the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u86	Next performance. Dear colleague Medunica, please. Oleg Medunica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u87	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, respectable baguettes! You know, I'm very often asked by my constituents in Suma to speak out on the very problems of my district, the issues of Suma. One of the problems in Sumi is the power in Sumi. And the local authorities, who came to a wave of populism, who taped the whole city with running boards, promised fair tariffs, which they took to the governments that were in this room and demanded a reduction of tariffs. And what do we have now in Suma? One of the biggest heat tariffs, one of the biggest electricity tariffs, but, thank God, worldrab tariffs were set aside when a group of national deputies turned to the government and to the NCREKP. A recent increase was made in the fare for travel on routes. Do you know what Sums call routes? A bucket of peacocks. Because bags often photograph the means of transport in which they pass through the city, where the wheels fall off, the doors that are snowed during the movement and with this tariff, which is now elevated by the local authorities, who promised fair tariffs. This is the local public transportation. Instead of developing their utility transport, and there are opportunities after decentralization to do so, they are again developing private business routes, people in the suburbs of the evening have no way to get to the center, mass complaints that after 21 hours nothing is going to go, and that there should be public transportation. Let's look at the Sumskie TEC, which now supplies heat to Sumi to the budget organizations, to the individuals who are leased. The sums are meters of snow, and where the pipes go to the ground and dirt, because they're inseparable, because the heat, and the bags are now getting three-digit payments, goes into the air. Instead of dealing with this problem, because they promised fair tariffs and took them to the monopolistic network, because they are in communal property, actually, to isolate them properly, to modernize them as they need to be done so that the bags pay less heat. City authorities, what's he doing? It comes to the NCREKP – the same authority that promised fair tariffs and says yes, we representatives of the Fatherland agree that the sums were the largest tariff in Ukraine. Why do I say that? I say that all the people in our country and the bagels, in particular, know that if the populists promise you to make the country cheaper, they will make it the way that the authorities in Suma make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u88	Thank you, thank you. Please, the people’s representative of Rebekah is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u89	63 constituency, Žitomir district, town of Berdichov I want to go to Prime Minister Vladimir BorisovichGroysman, Minister of Defence today: three years in a row, the Cabinet of Ministers is spending on building a 60-member building on the Red Mountain, the city of Berdichov for military personnel -- practically nothing is happening! I demand that I intervene in the situation, and that the construction be completed and that I be able to look my constituents in the eye, because I am ashamed to look at the people who are protecting our nation in the East today. The next painful question in the city of Berdichov, which is likely to go into an ecological disaster, is the cleaning plant that has been unable to build in the city of Berdichev since 1990. The city is ready to co-finance the cleaning facilities, but such a large amount of money that is needed today to build these buildings cannot be allocated from the local budget. That's why I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers to spend money on cleaning buildings, because today it's not just the city that's polluted, it's the Berdichov district that's being polluted. Streams go to rivers where there are many villages. And today people from rural areas come and address a big problem. The river passes through the city of Zitomir. And that's why I'm also asking you to find the funds, and today I'm asking you to build the cleaners. Today, the city gives its unclean practices to a private entity that is unable to process these unclean practices, and everything is polluted in the city, near the city, and also in the Berdichov region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, HannahGopko invites me to her word. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'd like to say that there's a documentary and publicist exhibition in Parliament that says, "We've been killed because we're Ukrainians" until the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust as the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And I would like to say right away that we very much expect that the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will finally approve the list of planned actions in Ukraine and abroad with specific dates of implementation, as well as the list of invited high-ranking representatives of foreign states, so that we can send an invitation, not to do it in the fall of the 85th anniversary. So a huge request to the Organizing Committee under Mr. Rainin's leadership to contribute to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture will finally approve these important documents. Also, colleagues, in my statement, I would like to say that in the next plenary week, we very much hope that we will finally adopt an important Law on Diplomatic Service, because the better experience of the European Union and the United States is based on. And I also hope that diplomatic service is a special service, so in this new law, which I hope we will vote next week, we will see more demands on diplomats than other civil servants. However, it is very important for us that this reform, which is necessary to move from the post-Radians model to the European model, finally takes place. And the next week is going to be important for us, the snags after there was a lot of euphoria about involving Ukraine in a group of NATO-aspirant countries, but in fact we have to fulfil our commitments and it's important to adopt the National Security Act. And at the same time, we see the first such comments about this law. Since it's a project registered with the president, it's not. It does not provide for parliamentary control over the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service. The very control over the activities of the BSS was seen as one of the fundamental objectives and requirements of the National Security Act, which our international partners had over 18 months developed with the President's Administration, the MPO, but then somehow they didn't see it in the registered text of the bill. I therefore very much hope that we in Parliament will be able to remedy these weakenings. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that it is very important for us to update the Central Electoral Commission and we voted in favour. I also hope that by March 25, 19 years after the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola, the central television channels will be reporting and we will finally know, and there will be investigations and conclusions as to who ordered the murder. And I would also like to invite the Attorney General, not from the rostrum of Parliament, but to come to a committee meeting, not to send some unknown representatives there to answer the actions of the Attorney General's Office to return the assets of Sergey Clovis from Austria, who run the Ivanishchenka. That's why we're waiting for the Attorney General on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u92	Thank you. Please welcome John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u93	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I'd like a little optimism, because as a family committee, young people, sports, tourism is really nice for our Paralympic collection, which, fortunately, now has six gold, six silver, seven bronze medals. [[Applause]] And I'm very happy for them. I think if we were to participate, we'd be the first to have a congregation in Paris, in all kinds of sports. Well, it doesn't matter, we're going to be third, we're going to be fourth, we're going to be the main thing -- to have our paralympics come and, of course, the state doesn't forget about them, so they're going to get these payments at the right time for the gold medals, for the silver medals, for the bronzes. That would be a very big plus. And today we heard our Minister Reva speak and say that people with disabilities do. In 2017 they are provided with the necessary wheels, inventory, and more. And I think God would have let the state turn to such people. I'd like to say something else. We have to raise young people in order to have good Olympics, athletes, but unfortunately, on Tuesday we'd like to go back to ruling 7218 for awarding prizes to our young people, because, you know, it would seem like a little something like that, but 10 people, 10 young people. We were unable to vote in favour of our Supreme Council award. And this. Well, it would appear that hundreds, thousands, millions of young people should be looking at them and, at the same time, they're looking at us that we haven't been able to vote on it. I would also like to say a few words on behalf of our agrarians. Still, we'd like to go back to the bill and return VAT on soybeans, rapes, sunflowers, agrarians are looking forward to it. Especially if we don't sow soy, it's going to be a big minus, and everyone understands that. But unfortunately, it's small, it might be payoffs, but we can just shorten the soybeans, shorten the crops of other crops where there will be no return. And that's what it's gonna And I understand perfectly that the money we put in our budget for the capital repairs, for the construction of farms, they make us happy, but at the same time, in the end, we'd like to do a lot of analysis of who gets it and how much. And first of all, we'd like to take all the bureaucracy in the paperwork so that these farms can get this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u94	Please make the next statement. Yuri Miroshnikka is welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u95	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I would like to use these few minutes to continue with the topic of the penitentiary system that was already involved today. And they talked about people who go to penitentiary institutions, unfortunately, very often don't get fixed, but they end up in conditions where it's impossible to go out and improve their lives. It's been for many years and human rights violations, and it's been impossible for many years to accuse those or other decisions that are approved by the management of penitentiary institutions, and a number of things that the International Commission for the Prevention of Torture qualifies as torture. And in this sense, Ukraine faces an enormous challenge -- the challenge of reforming the penitentiary system, transforming it from a penal system, from a system that avenges the person for the mistake she has made in life, to make it better, to realize her error and to return to normal life. Unfortunately, we have inherited a system that does not allow it. That's why the Law Enforcement Committee, in the Ministry of Justice, is made up of both international and Ukrainian law enforcement experts, a powerful team that has worked on a number of legislative initiatives that will first allow for the protection of human rights in penitentiary institutions and make the system the very system that will help both in the course of the investigation and in the course of the punishment, and at the rehabilitation stage already after returning to society. A number of important institutions have been formed. In particular, I want to mark the preventive measures that are being proposed. Laws have been created. And right now, I think Parliament has to allocate, and I'm going to take this opportunity to lead the Parliament, so that we can give one plenary day and approve that package of laws for which we're going to appreciate those people who are not only in the penitentiary institutions, but those who are their members of the families that these people are returning to. Those who have compassion and experience the problems their relatives have experienced. I call on all the Ukrainians and all the experts, the defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u96	Thank you. The performance is indeed timely. And thank you very much. And please give the next speech from the National MP, Ms. Leigh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u97	DmitriLenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw attention to the problem that affects every Ukrainian and hurts every Ukrainian, the problem of tariffs and the problem of high gas prices. The violent situation that has taken place since yesterday in my hometown of Kropivnicki. I've been making this official reference to the Prime Minister and I'm making public today. Half the town of Kropivnitsky lost its heat, which is more than 100 multi-story buildings, kindergartens and schools, because Kirovogradgaz, through debt, turned off the gas supply to the weeds and to the heat utility. Because of the debts that the state has not paid the subsidies that it has to pay, although there is already a debt restructuring agreement, today the head of Kirovogradgazu, Alexander Gladky, has actually taken the city hostage. And the half town is sitting in the cold at a time when there's snow, there's cooling, there's kids sitting in cold kindergartens, there's cold schools. I appeal to the Prime Minister to intervene immediately and solve this problem. Because of these problems that we're talking about. And there are many such problems in other cities. Today, the IMF is demanding a further increase in the price of gas in order to drive more debt, so that Ukrainians simply freeze in their homes, and that they have nothing to pay for. As of March 13, 2018, the debt for gas accounts for 37 billion dollars. If the government goes to the requirements proposed by the IMF to raise the price of gas alone, there will be even greater debts for Ukrainians. There'll be no more comings. There'll be only more debts. So we suggest that Oleg Lachka's Radical Party offers an alternative energy policy: we propose to increase the production of Ukrainian gas. Our initiative was to reduce the rent on new gas wells. Let's extract more Ukrainian gas and sell for the Ukrainians at the price they're getting, that's 2,000 dollars at the maximum, not 9,000 dollars, as the Ukrainians are paying today. 76 billion in this year have been allocated to subsidies, of which only 1 billion dollars have been spent on energy-modernization. I've been seeing the head of the Czech FSB for days. And they say, we're ready to power our buildings, we're willing to invest, but give us state support to consume less gas to make smaller payments for people. No State support. One billion dollars for energy-generating is nothing. Ukraine today consumes the most electricity, the most gas, and this applies to both industry and housing. That's why the Radical Party program is about reducing the use of gas, energy modernisation, it's not about subsidies that are being removed from the budget to the pockets of the oligarchs, it's about energy modernisation, it's about costs. Give people normal wages, give them a job, and they'll pay. Not to drive them into debt, and then to turn them off in the warm winter when it's cold when it snows on the street to make people freeze. So I propose, I demand that my address be to the Prime Minister and settle the question of.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you. And please give the following address by the national deputy Yuri Solovia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u99	Yuri Solovay, 79 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Poksat You know, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, it seems to me that we have a lot of issues in Parliament, but unfortunately we can't understand the current priorities clearly, and these are secondary issues. Because unfortunately, we are not discussing the key, systemic, socio-economic reforms that Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people need today. This is, for example, a cumulative pension system, this is for example, taxes on capital output, this is for example the land market or insurance medicine, or the privatization of the public sector. Unfortunately, we are discussing many other issues that do not stimulate economic development or make Ukrainian citizens richer. Because to my profound belief, the very economy, the very involvement of investments, the very major reforms in this field will allow Ukraine to move forward as soon as possible. If we're talking about the economy, one, by the way, from such substantive examples as this can work in practice is the restoration of roads and the construction of infrastructure. I can say, on the example of my district, that the restored road is within the Sniten district of Ivano-Frankivsk-Chernivci. Is the Kosovo-Top Road restored? Whether it's the Kosovo-Cuts or the Tuds or the Upper Yasenev-Usterica. These are the concrete measures that allowed economic development, primarily one of the most beneficial countries, is Gutzulščina and Pokości. Nevertheless, there are still a number of outstanding issues that need to be resolved in the near future. And first of all, I'd like to focus on the problem of rebuilding the infrastructures of the bridge recovery that are still in an emergency and temporary state since the flood of 2008. Last year we were able to rebuild the city in the village of Krivorovna, but unfortunately, the key strategic object of cities in Kosovo remains unrenewable, temporary, and possibly in an emergency. That is why I am approaching the Minister of Infrastructure from this high rostrum soon to predict the object as an object in need of immediate repair. To anticipate the necessary funds to solve this problem and to begin repairing the object immediately. Please form part two of my appeal in the form of a parliamentary appeal to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u100	Thank you, colleague. And please invite the National MP to the presentation. Please, a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u101	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear National Deputies! Dear countrymen! I really want to go on with the subject that my colleague Dmitry raised and came out of this high rostrum is causing me an extraordinary situation that is artificially created in the district center of Kirovgrad. At the beginning of the heating season, the local gas monopoly WAT "Kirovogradgaz" once again goes to the unacceptable, and in fact the criminal, I believe, activities that are involved in unlocking the city's mare from gas supply. By the end of November last year, the problem of the lack of heat in people’s homes and social infrastructure facilities had been quickly resolved by personal immediate intervention with the mayor of the city and the head of the district government. With our joint efforts, we were able to prevent a break in the heating season. As a result of the repeated gas blackmail that took place in December last year, I had no choice but to submit parliamentary requests to the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office and the National Police of Ukraine asking to carry out a legal review of the activities of the gas monopoly, which resulted in the discovery of two criminal cases on grounds of abuse of official authority. Unfortunately, however, the monopolist company again managed to cut off the city's potency from its gas supply yesterday. As a result, 137 housing units, 6 kindergartens, 3 schools, 2 PTUs, 1 health facility were left without heat. As a representative of our community in the Supreme Council, I publicly address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman, to intervene in the situation that has taken place and to take it under personal control. I consider blackmail policy, which is no longer the first time that WAT "Cyrovegas" is doing, unacceptable. And to leave people unheated before a sudden cooling, in my opinion, is not only a crime in front of the city community, but also a targeted, subversive state policy in the energy sector. I ask you to respond appropriately to the information and to give an immediate commission to stop unlawful acts and to bring the perpetrators to their legal responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Please give the next speech, the national MP, Mrs. Yuzkova. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u103	Thank you. With great respect to the presiding officer, to his colleagues who remain in the hall today. But today I want to turn to our people, to our respected Ukrainians. I was happy to see that even the media had begun to refute the outright lies that had been spread over the last four days, which would be changed and during the time of increased order and the possibility of obtaining permission to bury people who had died after March 16, this year. What are we really talking about? The point is that the Criminal Procedure Law has been amended, according to which the law enforcement authorities have established clear deadlines, their beginnings, and the order in which they increase. Unfortunately, in order to cancel the deadlines, there was an attempt to intimidate the Ukrainian people, to cause virtual panic, as if they would not be able to bury loved ones who had died. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška has always stood in the defense of human rights, including in criminal proceedings. This is not only about protecting people who are suspected of committing a crime but also about protecting those who have suffered it. If the terms of the pretrial investigation were to be applied earlier, the law enforcement authorities would have to report the terms of their beginning and the publicity of the extension of these terms. Why have they not been fully investigated so far without being brought to justice and without being held accountable, those who committed crimes in Maidan, the terrorist acts that have taken place recently in Kiev and so forth? Therefore, we insist that we do not allow the changes to be made in the future because they benefit the entire Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u104	Thank you for this information. And the next performance. Please, National Deputy Wolf, I'd like to invite you to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u105	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Honourable citizens, this Wednesday, due to the lack of many deputies to their work, the Supreme Council has not been able to consider a very important draft decree on a set of urgent measures for the practical implementation of Russia's international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. Justly awaiting support from the international community, such as sanctions against Russia, Ukraine has its own homework to do: form a consolidated claim to the aggressor state. I recall that the Soviet Union began preparing a consolidated claim to Germany in 1942, long before the victory, so the corresponding draft decree was introduced by Oleg Lášk and I in 2016, but still not approved. In the Donbas Act, a general rule on a consolidated claim has been implemented, and we must now proceed without delay to its practical implementation. Our decision provides for the immediate establishment of an inter-agency coordinating body to generalize the legal position of the State and prepare a consolidated claim by Ukraine to Russia. No existing authority can carry out this task alone, so it is unacceptable to delay the creation of such an interdisciplinary body. The decision also instructs the government to develop a method of determining the damage and damage caused by Russian aggression to Ukraine, since without establishing the extent of the damage, it is impossible to present an aggressor's claim and to activate the mechanism of international legal responsibility. It is absolutely insane that, in the fifth year of the war, the Ukrainian State has not yet begun a systematic process of calculating the total amount of damage. The implementation of these measures is fully in line with international practice and will significantly strengthen Ukraine's position in the international arena, including by strengthening Ukraine's negotiating positions with financial institutions and creditors, including the International Monetary Fund. We also foresee the creation of a single database of evidence of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, of war crimes and crimes against humanity, and we entrust the Security Service and the Ministry of Defence to strengthen cooperation with the Attorney General's Office regarding the provision to the International Criminal Court in The Hague of all necessary documents necessary to investigate the crimes committed by Russia's senior management and the occupying administration at Donbassa and Crimea. Oleg Lachka's radical party is convinced that it should be good with fists, including international law. Russia will eventually be called to account. We urge the Supreme Council to consider and approve our decision without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u106	Thank you for your performance. Please welcome National Deputy Bondar. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u107	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovstina, Kaminechtina, Radehjishtina. Dear colleagues, as we know, since January 1st in Ukraine, a road fund has begun to work, in accordance with the Law on Sources of Finance for the Road Economy of Ukraine on improving the financing mechanism for the road sector that we have approved with you. Some 47 billion dollars are to be allocated to the 18th - year roads. For the first time, the highway industry will receive state-guaranteed funding, this year almost 33 billion dollars, plus separate additional funding for a series of key highways – about 14 billion dollars. The local network of roads, which covers some 120,000 miles [120,000 km] of roads, will move into the area of local authorities. Since January 1, 18, it is the heads of ODA, the heads of the district and village councils who decide how and how to repair the roads. Funding will be made available from the newly created road fund, 35 percent of the full replenishment will be managed by the local authorities and their roads. At almost every reception in the district, people complain about the poor condition of roads, the inability to reach the district center, or other village. This is the situation in each of the districts of my 119th constituency. As the Law on the State Fund clearly states that the State Road Fund funds are directed, including subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to local budgets, to the financing of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads of general use of local value, as well as to streets and roads of municipal property in local locations, which are distributed between local budgets, depending on the length of the roadways of general use of local importance, according to the administrative and territorial unit. Please pay attention to this in the Lviv district and ensure that the law is implemented clearly and that the funds of the fund are allocated fairly between the monthly budgets, depending on the length of the road, the state of the road, not depending on the interests of individual MPs or the political forces. So I ask you to consider my speech as a parliamentary address and, in fact, that these costs be allocated in an honest manner according to the length of the roads, not by any particular arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u108	People’s MP Lazko is invited to attend. It's going to have six minutes, because there are also changes in our letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I hope that the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine have seen the results of another survey published by the press, where 80 per cent of the working people in Ukraine are not satisfied with their wages. And before that, we saw that 55 percent of young people want to emigrate from Ukraine for two reasons: they don't see how they can realize themselves in their own country and low wages. By comparison, Poland has a minimum wage of 500 euros and Ukraine has 120 euros. And today, Poland has again decided to simplify the procedure for hiring Ukrainian wage earners. And Poland, which by the economic potential of the 1990s was four times smaller than the Ukrainian potential, is ahead of us today at the expense of our labour migrants, at the expense of our labour force. Millions of Ukrainians work around the world, from Poland to America to Canada, because they pay normal wages because young boys and girls who have learned have the opportunity to realize themselves around the world, except in their own country. And the key to overcoming poverty is raising citizens' incomes. When the authorities tell us that there is no money to raise income, it does not correspond to reality. Because when there are decisions in Parliament, both prosecutors and judges, and so-called anti-corruption officials, are assigned 300,000 salaries per month instead of giving at least 30,000 salaries per month to the teacher, the doctor, the other budget categories, just the workers, they are told: "You can't raise wages because there's going to be inflation." And for 300,000 prosecutors and judges, there will be no inflation. They can pay such cosmic wages, then they retire and receive space pensions. Instead of working all their life for the village’s labor force, there are about a half-thousand bracelets in the village, and today there are pensions. That's why I'm calling on the government, to the Prime Minister to fulfill the promise you made to us in this Parliament publicly: to raise the minimum wage for the results of the first quarter of this year. More than two million Ukrainians live on a minimum wage. One famous movie said, "Don't give me God, you have to live on one salary." So millions of Ukrainians live on one salary, not even the average, but the minimum, and they have no opportunity to feed their families for a minimum wage. That is why we demand that the next plenary week submit to Parliament: changes to the state budget, increases in wages. According to our estimates, the minimum wage today, given the price per utility, for the cost of medicines, should be at least five and a half thousand dollars a month. [[Applause]] The same applies to the minimum pension. Today, millions of people receive a minimum pension of one and a half thousand dollars. Our estimate is that the minimum pension should be 3,000 dollars a month, and there is every possibility of that. Thanks to our fight to raise the minimum wage last year, nearly fifty billion dollars have come into the budget. So there are possibilities for recalculation of pensions, for military retirees, for Chernobyl, for former colporteurs, and for their salary, a pension of not less than three thousand dollars a month. The same applies to wages. Raising wages is a real detinction of the economy, it's a bigger pension for people in the future, not the cashiers they get today. I hope that both the President and the government will hear me, and if they don't, we'll do everything we can to get you to hear millions of Ukrainians who are demanding higher wages, higher pensions, improved social protection, available medicine, available medicine, which is impossible for today's head of the Department of Health -- "Doctor-Death" Uljana Suprun. Our team therefore demands that the government appoint a minister of health. And take responsibility for what is called medical reform. Because the goal of reform is the quality of services, it's the availability of services, and we see the exact opposite: millions of Ukrainians, especially low-income families, are deprived of access to proper medical care. These are very important questions for every working person in Ukraine. And instead of dealing with a lot of jobs, the authorities are selling 4G frequencies for a penny. That's the kind of honest privatization they're going to be doing. They prowl among themselves in this cave triangle, in this rotten, smoky swamp, instead of going to people and hearing what they live for. Instead, they burn people with fairies, lies. There are two oligarchs sitting on the lake in Geneva, one sitting on the lake in Geneva, the other sitting on the garden in Lviv and lying on their channels: Garden from 24th, Colombian from Plus. That as a result of Lozov’s amendment, the conditions of burial would change. Even today, the public prosecutor’s office, the courts, and so forth, has been able to refute this. They said nothing would change. And they joked for three days, and people were afraid that the conditions of burial would change. Of course, they had already bought places for themselves outside the country. And Ukrainians are terrified of stories. Why do they do this? For one reason -- because the Radical Party has achieved a real anti-corruption fight! We have taken the opportunity to falsify criminal cases against Ukrainians! We protect people. And they want to rob you. We're in your defense and we won't let them do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u110	People’s deputies, Oleg Barezyuk, are invited to attend. Mr. Liege, please. I also ask the epithets of such unpleasant to avoid colleagues during speeches to absent colleagues from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! The government in Ukraine is, without a doubt, an oligarchic one. A government that works solely in its own interests, using both human and budget resources. This is an obvious thing and there is a lot of evidence. Power does not tolerate those who think otherwise. The situation that is being widely discussed today is about funerals, a situation that did not happen yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a situation that occurred during the adoption of codes that no one in this room has read.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Oleg, one minute, I'm very sorry. I'll give Mr. Oleg three minutes. I ask you very much, you have expressed your position during the performances, no one has interrupted. Well, let's be fair to each other. Three minutes. And I'm asking you to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u113	I beg you, Mr. Andrew, I can scream too. And we'll talk calmly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u114	This is a situation that is not caused by one or two people, this is a situation that is systemic, because the adoption of codes that no one has read in this room is the cause of this situation. Because these codes were a design that served exclusively the oligarchic authorities to destroy the very process of investigation and prosecution. These codes are actually the destruction of the effectiveness of the NAB. And we need to know that. And what happened to the funeral is ricochet, maybe even an accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you. Dear colleagues, next. Yesterday was a day that was very sad, and yesterday there was a imbalance that should not have been broken. Unfortunately, yesterday we elected an ombudsman who depended on political power. Today, the Ministry of Justice is in the hands of a political power. Today, however, the Ombudsman, who seems to have come out of that power but whether the force has gone out of it, remains there, and it is unknown how he will deal with people who will be violated by their rights in the police station or in prisons. It's a serious violation of the balance sheet of a legal society. And it's a sad event. Yesterday, too, there was a sad event. The ex-head of the National Bank of Ukraine almost spoke with an aplomb about winnings, including the victory of the Nationalization of the Private Bank, saying that it took 7 percent of Ukraine's gross product. 7 percent when medical and educational spending is perhaps 1 percent more. But if this money hadn't been given to an oligarch who's been robbing a bank for years and no one's seen it, but to give it to medicine, I think it would have been much better. But the political forces that resist the oligarhat are being persecuted and beheaded. No one writes or says today that in Kharkiv, the deputy of the city council of Harkow from Self-Help, Natalka Kovalenko is being persecuted and threatened, and no one is defending her. And the car manager of the Odessa district center of Self-Help is only burned because these people are defending people's interests and protecting the budgets of their local communities. There is no authority that stands up for people and there is power that promotes either its own interests or the interests of their oligarchs and owners. Fight ahead. And the real politicians, I think, should.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Mustafa Najim is invited to the floor. Mustafa Najem is invited to the floor. He was in the hall. Okay. We'll come back later. Please, Mikola Palamarczuk. I beg you, Mikola Palamarczuk. Yeah, go on. Please welcome the people's deputy of Areson to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! Last time I finished my speech, mentioning that the leadership of the State today declared politics, increased cooperation, ties with our neighboring Republic of Belarus. Indeed, it is not a secret that in recent years, especially border areas, such as the north of the Gitomir region, where traditionally there were very close economic, cultural, spiritual connections with the neighbouring state, well, so to speak, there was a certain degree of cooling for various reasons. Clearly, then, this is the right decision. But I asked the question, on what road are we going to take the roads? And unfortunately, indeed, there is a terrible absolute state of the Hmielnicki route today through Zitomir, Korosten, Ovróch and through his performances on Gomel. And I'm going to the government today, to the Ministry of Infrastructure to get attention, to review the state programme. Because it's really a shame that interstate roads are in this state. But I want to point out that it's not just these routes. Look, we've announced serious reforms. Education reform, which envisions the creation of educational districts, and last year was announced a program called "make way to so-called support schools." Today we're talking about medical reform, and we're talking about that in order for average medical personnel, doctors, to get to remote locations, villages, especially in our forested rural areas, such as Ovruccik, Olevské, I have the necessary road in the district, first of all, which I don't need, a technique, a car that I don't have either. Today I'm not saying that the connection, we're not going to talk 4G, there's no basic Internet connection in many remote rural areas. So today I would like to go to the government and ask them to review the allocation of funds on these state programs for the acquisition of the necessary technology, for the provision of modern communication, for them to be able to hire teachers, so that the medical profession can work and the main thing is that we have roads, highways that we can travel to remote locations. This is an extremely important program of government. It's a matter of national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u118	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please, let me speak to you. It will be. No, it will be Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, and those who are late will now be waiting for their turn. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! The worst enemy for every human being is the shortevity of the nature of every human being. At the same time, our people are recognized as one of the happiest people in the world. True, authority says, before them, there is everything for happiness, and people are told that you will be happy with what you have. And people get the last one. As early as October, I had asked the President, the President, with requests to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General's Office, the NAB and such other structures. About the fact that in the Gitomir region, in Novograd-Wolinski, they take away the last, undivided land of common property, unasked pies. And it does so solely by signing it, the head of the district government. He does this exclusively and presumptuously by concealing documents, for he is a representative of the right party, the largest. It was only when the village council came to see young people on appropriate transportation who were required to register these documents. It's been almost five months, zero reactions. I understand why. Because they're covering up, as the heads of the district administrations say, they've been given the facility to accumulate land and rewrote it to the people they're going to be told. And at the same time, notice that whoever works locally on earth has to pay 8 percent of the value of the pie, and that's 3. And at the same time, no one knows about these firms. The district government decided to put the situation on hold. And they did what? They formed a work commission that never met. But it was, no doubt, that local community representatives were registered there. I'm talking to people, I'm not talking to an empty room here, but thank you to those who are listening in this session room. You can't keep living like this! Kutuzov once said in 1812, "To save Russia, we have to burn Moscow." I'm not calling for that. But let's think together, how can we save Ukraine? The MP's request is the voice of a roaring in the desert. "A year of questions to the government" is a propaganda, and then they may not answer the questions. There has never been such an unscrupulous attitude toward MPs. But we are treated as we deserve. It turns out that the tail spins with the dog, and you don't get an answer to any of the questions -- a note from the tenth deputy. I demand to take the necessary measures and bring this bastard to justice, I'm sorry to say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u120	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, I only want to support from the Presidency of the Supreme Council the position of the Ukrainian national deputies that. and turn to the government that we expect from the government a more complex system of cooperation, both with Parliament and with the Supreme Council committees, and with all branches of government demanding an informative, objective and professional response to the demands of the Ukrainian National Deputies. And also during the next "hour of questions to the government," we're going to raise this question about the competence to answer the questions of the national MPs. Please welcome National Deputy Najem. You're in the hall now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u121	Good afternoon, fellow officers. I'd still like to speak to you. Go back to those rights to the Criminal Procedure Code that came into force today. I just got off the phone with two D.A.'s investigators who are already in trouble with these warrants. And the speakers who spoke to me from the Radical Party, who can take the line from this point, forget one simple thing they don't tell you, really, it might not affect the funerals, really, it might not affect some of the tragic things. But what do they want to do? After consulting the committee, when we wanted to change this amendment, we were told, you know, we're fine, we're not worried about anything except chapter III of the Criminal Code -- a special part. So that's what goes in there, I'll just say it. First. "Article 196. Fraud." It's a faction that wants to take out the crooks. The other one. Property disposal is what these people want to do. Next. Crime in the field of farming, smuggling. What do we have here? Maybe they're protecting cows like that? Counterfeiting money, gambling is what is known to the leader of this faction, raiding, tax evasion, error in completing a declaration, excess of authority, is chapter 17 of a special section of the Criminal Code, crimes against justice. They wanted all these things out of the way. So everything else -- please do whatever you want, do it there, and please don't touch that. Finally, there are no problems and questions to this faction. I know a lot of people in this faction, they're very professional people, politicians that I respect. The question is not with them, the question to Mr. Rinat Ahmtov, whose factory manager led the party. Rinat Leonidovich Ahmedov, I am addressing you today, stop using your satellites as the Russian Federation is doing on Donbassa, here in Parliament to protect further frauds, smugglers, corrupts that you brought into power, which led to what happened to us three years ago, and now you are protecting the same people here. And in closing my speech, I'd like to talk about human problems. Last night in Kiev, number 142 was closed to an emergency seemingly repair, although the building works. I would now like to contact Mr. Klick, the Ministry of Education, and the Thessalonians Administration: Please resume the work of this letter. They're teaching kids who aren't there right now. They don't have a place to study at all, they're taken from there and they say they want to do some reconstruction. What to rebuild is unknown, money is unknown. Of course they want to take the land. And I'm talking to all of these people right now: please restart your work by flying, give me an answer about what happened to this building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u122	The lines at the end of all the performances, we always do that, step by step. Please, the next performance is Irina Volodymyrna, at the end of all the performances. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't interrupt me! Please, National Deputy Sotnik. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u123	I have to continue the subject of change to the Criminal Procedure Code. Not immediately, of course, not the next morning on March 15 or 16, people will feel you've improved their criminal process, and not everyone will immediately realize that you've actually blocked the system, the law enforcement system, and the crime rate that is now going to be flowers in two or three months because of your beautiful changes. I'll explain very simple things. Our fellow national deputies have made it possible for investigators today, for example, to travel 300 kilometers from Sum to Harkov in order to actually get permission to do basic things, such as carrying out a dactyloscopic expertise, if there's theft, or fingerprinting expertise. Or on my way back to the funeral, I'll tell you the statistics, because these national deputies hardly checked it. [[Noise Nodes]] So, any signs that a person died not by his own death, or the sign of a violent death, are now necessary for medical expertise. Such experts in Kiev alone will be over 2,000 in one month, which means that we're loading the courts and instead of looking at criminal cases, and today they're going to be looking at 2-3 years, and they're going to be looking at these problems in expertism and a lot of other things. These changes were taken by accident, by accident, and not by illiteracy, but were clearly accepted and considered. These codes were voted on at the same time to bring about specific changes for the oligarchic clans so that they could close their questions about corruption and economic crime. Because today with these changes I am responsibly telling you, I have already spoken to not one investigator, no investigator will be able to bring these cases to an end, because neither the expertise will be carried out, nor the follow-up will be carried out, nothing will happen for real crimes. And I don't think people will thank you for that. But again, I'm going back to the simple thing. In fact, the deputy who filed these amendments handed them over and behind him are very specific people who want to close their criminal cases. [[B in m in s a l in]] So when you refer to someone discrediting you there, it is totally unfounded, because someone with no reputation has no reason to discredit him. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I think people will tell you in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address a faction. We have a parliament to discuss. If so, then on Friday there will be a discussion of the corresponding changes to the Criminal Code, all those who wish to express themselves will have the opportunity. And they used to defend the amendments to this code, and they didn't interrupt. Well, there's no way that one faction simply doesn't respect others, even if the position doesn't match. What's going on? Here comes your colleague. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. Dear Mr. Liege, I'll go to the regulatory committee. Similarly, not all colleagues should be humiliated. I ask you to respect your colleagues in the session room, the more who lived until Friday and listened to you for an hour. It's not easy either, believe me. Please give the next performance by the national deputy Illenka. I'm sorry I delayed your speech with my back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u125	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! I think a lot of you have seen or read about what happened recently in Britain when there was an assassination on the former. to a former spy and his relatives, and the British authorities immediately investigated, personally Prime Minister Teresa May of Britain, at a meeting of Parliament, said that the Russian Federation and the Special Forces were involved, in fact, in the use of chemical weapons in the United Kingdom. The reaction was immediate. 22, if I am not mistaken, Russian diplomats were immediately expelled from the United Kingdom. Now it's about increasing sanctions against Russia. And in fact, it's about a very hard reaction from Great Britain to this act of lawlessness and aggression. What do we see in Ukraine? For four years, there has been an open, unscrupulous Moscow aggression against Ukraine. Thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens, including civilians, have been killed, and millions have become refugees. To date, the territories of our state have been temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. And we still have diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation, so far we have no one sending so-called Russian diplomats, actually spies and divers. No one is fighting against the promoskovsky fifth column, which includes the one sitting in parliament, and today’s authorities are agreeing beautifully on a vote. And we understand that there is another very critical moment, this is the so-called election of the President of the Russian Federation, which is due to take place this Sunday, 18 numbers. It's an absolute propaganda farce, because we understand that it's not an election. First of all, they're taking place in an area, particularly the Russian-occupied Crimea, which is just an absolute violation of international law and an attack on our country. Plus, we realize that it's essentially not an election, it's simply a conversion of Putin to the position of "king of Moscow." And we realize that it is an absolute nightmare when these elections take place in the territory of a controlled Ukraine. In four cities in diplomatic representations of the Russian Federation: Kiev, Lviv, Kharkiv and Odessa. And when Freedom, the National Corps, the Right Sector, the other forces that signed the National Manifesto say that they will be holding shares these days under these representatives of the Aggressor country to prevent this disgrace and legitimacy of this pseudopropagandist process, what does the National Police claim? She says: "We will strengthen the protection of diplomatic representations." We will not send Russian diplomats away from Ukraine, as Britain did for one or two of its citizens, and we will protect them more because it is very important for us to have votes in Ukraine. Therefore, we will be sure to conduct these actions, and we urge all Ukrainians to draw conclusions from such situations. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u126	Please make the next statement. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u127	ValeriaZarenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I want to address all of you today! I would like to turn to you and draw your attention to such wonderful social issues as Ukrainian family and labour migration of Ukrainian youths. Sadly, today we are all seeing a sharp crisis in the Ukrainian family. Divorce statistics are really scary. The average since 2014 is 130,000 divorces per year! These are 130,000 destroyed families and thousands of abandoned children. Unfortunately, in Ukraine today, there is also a terrible phenomenon such as social orphans. Social orphans are children who have parents who are unfortunately in a residential institution. We have 92 percent, think about it, 92 of these kids. There is also a need to talk about such a phenomenon as the new social fatherhood when it comes to children whose parents have gone abroad to earn money. For entire regions of the country, this is massive. Because most children belong to the very category of those who see their mother’s mother’s own scaffolding. There is a rapid rise in a society of strong emigrant sentiments among young people, among educated youths who, unfortunately, do not see prospects in their own country today. 55 percent of Ukrainians under 30 are ready to leave the country. Among 30-year-olds, this rate is 47 percent. It's all the consequences of work, decent pay, and being able to get a place of your own. The Radical Party team is proposing a series of legislative initiatives aimed at solving the problems that these negative trends have to stop. Our team has consistently and gradually chosen to provide young people with affordable housing credit and credit for their own businesses. This is the same financial tool that will allow young people to lay the groundwork for a normal life in their own country. Last week, my colleagues and I, the Radical Party faction, passed a bill that would allow for an increase of 857 million dollars in the "Affordable Housing" programme and a billion dollars and a loan scheme. In addition, in this bill we propose to expand the credit categories of participants and to add to the list of displaced persons, ATO soldiers, and the families of dead ATO soldiers. We also propose a comprehensive youth policy strategy that is unfortunately not available today. We will include not only the democratic values of respect for individuals and the right to education, but also the powerful economic basis, the right to work, a decent salary, a decent standard of living, affordable housing for families and affordable credits for the start of our own business.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I want to continue this meeting for 10 minutes. And the word is now given to the People's Deputy. None. Please, the next Sobolev Yegor. Svetlana's flag. This is the last performance we're going to have. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to talk about a bill recently registered in the Supreme Council by the President on national security and defence. In fact, it's an extremely important law that should fully integrate us into NATO. But after reviewing this bill, we see that the authorities want to integrate into NATO by the principle of "we're playing here and we're not playing here." I'm talking specifically about the CBS right now. Unfortunately, this law does not contain the important provisions relating to civilian supervision, the democratic supervision of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is to be given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is to be used by the Ombudsman, who is to be used by the criminal committees in the Supreme Council, to be used by the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. The very absence of this civilian oversight has led me, other colleagues of mine, to complain that the Ukrainian Security Service is using its authority to repress the Ukrainian business. Please look at the latest statistics on the rise of complaints from Ukrainian businessmen from all over Ukraine. In the last quarter of 2017, it grew fourfold. And the business ombudsman that these complaints come to, the deputies, unfortunately, are unable to help Ukrainian entrepreneurs. It is now absolutely clear that NATO will not support such a bill if we do not change it with you and we cannot, in fact, give ourselves democratic control over the Ukrainian Security Service. I want to confirm that actually democratic and civil control is one of the fundamental principles of integration into the North Atlantic alliance. Without it, Ukraine will not be able to reach the standards we promised by 2020. We may not expect the support that our partners have declared if we do not do our homework ourselves. Unfortunately, the President wants to maintain one-person control of the Ukrainian Security Service as a repressive body in order to prosecute both political and business actors. We already remember the story of Medvedchuk, who was bleached, who was granted absolute privileges in the sale of compressed gas. We see in other stories, we follow the link when the BSS supports Medvedchuk's business interests in one area or another, while repressing all other competitors in the Ukrainian business. That is why I urge all Ukrainian parliaments to take great note of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u130	I have to make another remark. I have to make another observation as chairman. Only representatives of one faction were able to speak calmly today. I want to talk to journalists, too, and to the viewers who are looking at us right now, it's not decent when they cry out all the other speakers. All deputies are equal, all deputies are equal to all factions. It's not my third time today. Now I'm entitled to a replica, although, frankly, I don't want to give it. But I don't have a choice. Yeah, I don't have a choice, I have to give it under the Rules. But you, colleagues, have a choice: to remain human or hammocked. Thank you. Right on the Radical Party line. It's all in full storage.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I asked the warhead not to read us morals. You will call the MPs of your B.P.P. faction into the hall to work as our team does on Friday. Your deputies don't walk, they get space wages, and you read morals to them, not to us. And now I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine. Notice who the opponents of our changes are protecting before the law, the prosecutors and the judges. You haven't heard a single word about protecting ordinary Ukrainians who are being falsified by criminal cases, mimic their investigation for years, demand bribes every month, and every week, small and medium-sized businesses, and employees should wear bribes. And when we covered up this corrupt feed, we limited the deadline and the investigation, they all stood on their ears. Why? Because we took away the opportunity to engage in corruption. Because unlike President Prashenko, who imitates the fight against corruption, we've adopted changes that really tackle corruption in the law enforcement system. That's why they're all taller because we don't give.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-16-m0.u132	Thank you for the talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like now to address the IFF "Equal Opportunities" with the request to send an IFF "Equal Opportunities" and female MPs an official address to the leader of the Radical Party of Light, who today only for an hour today called the female MPs present "the vice-head", "actrisa" and other demeaning absolute things. It's sexism. It's sexism that you don't allow yourself to be with your colleagues. And I'm talking to Ukrainian women, to look at how some of the male politicians allow women to be humiliated in politics. I'm your little head. I am the Deputy First Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And don't humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament. And now, dear colleagues, let me remind you all that on March 18th, there will be a fair election at President Putin's Crimea. I would now like to draw the attention of all the national MPs here and all the Ukrainians, that the leaders of the Crimean Tatar people have turned to the Crimean Tatars and to the Ukrainians who have remained in the occupied Crimea, asking to block these elections, not to go to the fair elections. And I hope that all the colleagues here from different factions will now, in this serious matter, support this call. And I also want to remind you that the Ukrainian authorities have made very much the same effort this week to remind the world once again of what is happening to human rights, human rights violations in the occupied Crimea and in Donbassa. This week, appropriate hearings were held at UN Radbez, where all these distressing facts were also given. This week there was a presentation of "Cyborga" in the United States Congress, and today it will be held in the Netherlands, in The Hague. Dear colleagues, I would like you and I to conclude this difficult and unforgivable week, in the first place, with words of solidarity to the Ukrainians who remain in occupied Crimea, to the Crimea Tatars. And to say that we will continue to do our utmost to return Crimea officially to Ukraine. Thank you all for taking part in today’s session. Dear colleagues, I want to say that we don't have actors or actors here, but politicians do. And to remind us that we have a short break, just for a few days. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
