ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u1	I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:02:32]] A total of 357 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I remind you that by noon we had begun our consideration of the draft Codex on Bankruptcy (8060). We went through a stage: the reporter's speech, the factions' speeches. Now there will be speeches by the national deputies and then a closing word and a decision. The next law we have on a daily basis is the Law on Diplomatic Service, which is extremely important. It has 140 right-handers, but I think we can do it productively. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you about the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On State Protection of the Governmental Authorities of Ukraine and Officials" (8155). There's a committee decision, it's given to you. And I very much ask that the national deputies be able to get to know him. This bill was signed by all the heads of factions and groups in Parliament. And after the diplomatic service, I'm going to propose it for consideration. We put him in the daytime order for lunch, so we can go over to lunch. So now the draft Code of Bankruptcy Procedures, then the diplomatic service, then the draft Law on State Protection of State Authorities (8125). He's on the floor, I'm asking everyone to study him in detail before the vote. [[Noise Nodes]] I see. When someone in the hall is yelling and hoping for what I'm hearing, I have to be disappointed -- not hearing. And now I'm asking you to record a performance by the National Deputies. And I would like to ask the people's deputies to participate in the recording of who is willing to participate in the discussion. Please sign up. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u2	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Is it important to adopt laws on bankruptcy and change? It's very important, because it's an urgent question. Sadly, though, an editorial that is prepared is not perfect and does not take away the greatest problems and issues that arise in the course of bankruptcy. First of all, this code is a revision of the current bankruptcy legislation and does not remove any of its inherent shortcomings. The project does not set the amount of debt owed by legal persons to creditors, which is the basis for opening up bankruptcy proceedings, although for natural persons this size should be noted. The influence of the bailiff in the bankruptcy case is excessively enhanced. I want to stress here that if you're in the law, if you vote in the first reading, you don't write out clearly how many years, no more, there might be a bankruptcy issue, then there's a situation that's been going on since the transition period, since the Soviet times, since the beginning of Ukraine's independence, we still have businesses that have bankruptcy issues, and there's an arbitration officer. It's one of the issues of bankruptcy, and I've put a few emphasiss on it, and it's still an instrument of power, if it touches public enterprises, and if I need to raid an enterprise, I'm helping it go bankrupt, and because of bankruptcy, there's both secret privatization and vagrancy. In addition, raiding takes business. In addition, the law provides that the court will be able to rule out the liquidation of the debtor’s property, which is legally binding but necessary to meet the immediate needs of the debtor and his family. Read: An apartment where children still live. This rule will result in corruption and will allow for the preservation of both. I don't know what you're talking about. And so many observations, and that's why the faction decided not to vote in favour of this law in the first reading and to send it back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u3	Thank you. From the faction. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u4	Please give the word to Alexander Opanasenka. Hey, tough guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! In principle, tools, the physical bankruptcy institute exists in most developed countries: in the United States, in Germany, even in the Russian Federation, it was adopted two years ago. If a similar institution existed and was adopted by Parliament 12-13 years ago, I think we wouldn't have had such a problem with foreign exchange loans and other debts of individuals that we have right now, and it's not solved, unfortunately, because there's not always a constructive position in negotiations in banking institutions. In fact, there are a few questions just like this bill, but the faction's decision: we support it in the first reading to bring it to its mind and to take it as a whole. We need this tool and this institute for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u7	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. You know, here's enough of my colleagues have been speaking for and against the adoption of the draft Codex. But what I want to point out is that an active edition of the Law on Restoring the Payability of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy is one of the rudiments that we have in our legislation that we have been left with since the beginning of 90 years. The current drafting of the law was adopted back in 92 B.C., in fact, there were certain adjustments and changes to it, but its concept, its foundation still remains, those new positions that were in the legal science of bankruptcy right at the beginning of 90 years. Yes, of course, if you ask if this bill is perfect -- no, it's not perfect. Does he need a certain right? Yes, of course, but that's exactly what we can fix on second reading. We simply need both the matter of procedure and the appointment of the arbitrators, their powers. But the archival other thing is that we have to end up introducing into our doctrine the law of the institution the restoration of the ability of the debtor of the individual. We cannot make a hostage a person when both monetary loans were taken and, unfortunately, because of certain both objective and subjective factors, a person simply could not fulfill his obligations. A person has the right to do something, not to take responsibility, but to understand what was wrong, but he has the right, of course, to a new life. You know, also a lot of colleagues say that the title of the bill is wrong. But for example, I agree with the head of the Committee on Economic Policy with Mr. Ivanchuk. And it was, by the way, my proposal, once again in the drafting of the bill, that the law, namely the Code, should be called bankruptcy procedures. Because restoring the ability of the borrower, and whether it's a legal person or a physical person, it's just one of the elements of the bankruptcy institution itself. If we look at world practice and European practice, worldwide, this procedure is called the Bankruptcy Institute. Dear colleagues, that is why I very much ask you all to support the draft code in its first edition, to accept it as a basis. And let's all join together in working out proposals to really make it, well, if not perfect, close to the perfect one and put in place a truly honest bankruptcy institution in Ukraine, honestly allow debtors, both natural persons and the legal right to a new life and to do business.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u8	Thank you. Nemirovsky Andrew Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u9	The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko agrees with the idea of improving bankruptcy, particularly through the adoption of the relevant code. The legislation in force is very old, so we have a lot of gaps. In particular, debtors have holes to avoid their financial obligations to creditors. The bankruptcy process stretches over time and has low efficiency. Also, an ineffective property sale procedure, whereby the creditor cannot always get the highest price for it. All of this leads to a complication of entrepreneurial activity, increases the risk of banks in lending and deters foreign investors. The proposed law provides for two books: bankruptcy of legal persons and bankruptcy of natural persons. They set up a more clear and transparent bankruptcy procedure and a much higher level of protection for both creditors and debtors. The State will also be able to help those who are in a difficult financial situation and who have lost their ability to pay. Such practices should calm people down and make them bolder in their work activities, which can have a positive impact on the country’s economic development. So the Peter Prashenko faction will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u10	Thank you. And the closing statement by the National Deputies is Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u11	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. Actually, I'm going to say on behalf of the faction, in principle, Alexander Kugel has already said that the bill is in need of further work. We'd like to vote in favour of sending him to the author for processing. In fact, this is a revision of bankruptcy legislation. And we can see that the text of the bill does not completely eliminate the individual situations that are inherent in these shortcomings. In fact, we see that the project does not determine the amount of debt owed by legal persons to creditors, as Alexander Kugel has already said. The influence of the bailiff in the bankruptcy case is excessively enhanced. I would also like to say that the court will be able to rule out the disposal of the debtor’s property, which, by law, is compensable, but is necessary to meet the urgent needs of the debtor and his family. This rule will probably result in certain corrupt risks, corrupt abuse, and allow for the preservation of valuable assets by an influential debtor. The project relies on individuals to comply with a number of creditors’ requirements even after the bankruptcy procedure has been completed. In addition, it is envisaged that the court may declare invalid the rights of a natural person in relation to the alienation of property on the basis of an arbitral tribunal or creditor’s claim. That in today’s conditions it can become an instrument of raiding. Constitutional rights are limited to the work of natural persons admitted to bankruptcy because they have been banned for five years from engaging in independent professional activities as lawyers, private notaries, performers, and arbitrators. We think it's actually a bill. Our experts at the Fatherland faction have worked very hard, written all these flaws. And we believe, Mr. Head and honourable colleagues of the national MPs to be returned. And given all the flaws that I've just heard to return to the session room, then we can jointly adopt this code, which will actually serve Ukrainian people, both individuals and legal persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u12	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished our discussions with the National Deputies, and we've finished our discussions. According to the Rules, there is now only a closing word from the committee and from the copyright team, we have it in one person. That means in three or five minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask, colleagues, to invite all the national deputies into the hall and heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of the hall. And I invite the chairman of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich. Andriy Volodymyrovich, Ivanchuk, you can say the closing word both from the committee and as the author of the bill. And I'm asking everyone, I'm inviting the deputies into the hall, in three or five minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Andrew Volodymyrovich, do you have 3 minutes or 6 minutes? Five are compromising. We found a compromise with the committee head, five minutes on. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Please. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u13	Dear Mr. Head, I address Maxim Burbak. Maxim Burbak, I'm addressing you and all the faction leaders and groups. Your colleagues, representatives of all MP factions and groups are co-authors of the bill. I will be speaking at this rostrum until there are no national deputies in this room that will allow us to adopt this bill. With or without a microphone, I'm not leaving until we adopt draft 8060 of the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy. Dear colleagues, we now have seven drafts in Parliament on this subject from various authors. All of these 7 bills regulate and improve Ukrainian legislation in one way or another. But the adoption instead of the seven bills that we're going to spend seven times as much time on the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy as 806 doesn't have the effect that we're going to accept this bill. Once again, honourable MPs, this bill answers all the questions about the procedure of rehabilitation, bankruptcy, the elimination of legal persons who know everyone today. We balanced it very much and put it into a separate book, number one, of the codex. The second book is a completely different institution, a new institution for Ukrainian legislation, we've never had one. It is a book that regulates the bankruptcy of natural persons. Dear friends, I very much ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to ensure that you participate in the vote of your colleagues, let us adopt the bill in the first reading so that in two weeks of amendments we can consider in the committee, balance, improve the quality of the bill and take such a big step forward in the international rating of Doing Business. Once again, the adoption of this bill will provide Ukraine with 9 promotions; in three years of independence of our reform and our work, we have only 7 positions plus Doing Business. One of these bills is going to give us nine positions. Please, honourable national MPs, let's all concentrate together, I know what they support, without exception, all the MPs, all the MPs and non-fractional MPs, let's take it on the first reading as a basis and prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u14	Thank you. Thank you for the fiery report. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. I'm asking you to see who's not on the right, on the left, invite you to the hall, call you back. Please and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform those deputies who are in the towers that we have concluded the discussion and are moving on to a decision. And I ask everyone to stop the temporary political discussions, get as close as possible to their ballot cards and prepare for a decision. So, colleagues, I'm also asking the bed to move into the hall, and let's get to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (No. 8060) as a basis. Fellows, on the basis of that, we'll be able to work between the first and the second readings. And I'm asking everyone to vote and I'm asking you to support 8060 as a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[16:22:17]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, please stay put. I was asked by the factions and the committee to put the next law, the dual law on diplomatic service, on a rating vote, because we have no right to put it at risk. And I'm asking you to participate in the rating vote, my colleague, I am voting on the draft Law on the Service of Diplomacy (second reading, 7322). Whoever supports this bill, please vote. The rating vote. Let's see if we can get in or out of it. Please vote, please support. Vote. It's a rating vote. [[16:23:07]] For 155 The committee said that in the event of a negative vote, he asked to transfer the bill to another period. And so, colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is a draft of an urgent package of measures for the practical implementation of the international legal responsibility of the Russian Federation for armed aggression against Ukraine (5463). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Short-term procedure. [[16:23:54]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vuk Viktor Ivanovich. Please, Victor Ivanovich. And, colleagues, after this law, I will propose the next Safety Act. And please, Wolf Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the draft decree contains a set of urgent measures for the practical implementation of Russia's international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. While awaiting support from the international community, such as sanctions against Russia, Ukraine must carry out its own homework and in accordance with the adopted law on reintegration of Donbas to form a consolidated claim to the aggressor state. I recall that the Soviet Union began preparing such a claim to Germany back in 1942, long before victory. The decision foresees the immediate creation of an inter-agency coordinating body to prepare for Ukraine’s consolidated claim to Russia. The task alone cannot be accomplished by any existing authority. Therefore, it is unacceptable to delay the creation of such an interdisciplinary body. It also provides for the development of a method of determining the damage and damage caused to Ukraine by Russian aggression. Without the extent of the damage, it is not possible to present a claim to the aggressor and to engage in mechanisms of international legal responsibility. During the fifth year of the war, the Ukrainian State had not yet begun a systematic work on the total amount of damage. The implementation of these measures is in line with world practice and will significantly strengthen Ukraine's position in the international arena, including in negotiations with international partners and financial institutions. In addition, the Henprocurator’s Office, the Security Service, and the Ministry of Defence must contribute to the government’s creation of a single database of evidence of Russian aggression, war crimes and crimes against humanity. These bodies are also encouraged to strengthen cooperation with regard to the International Criminal Court in The Hague with all the documents necessary for the commission of crimes committed by the Russian superiors and the occupational administration in Donbassa and Crimea. Let us call for unanimity to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u16	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u17	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I would like to say that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs has supported this decision and is proposing this decision in accordance with the changes that have been made to you in this paper, particularly considering what we have adopted, has approved the Law on the Characteristics of State Policy and the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Accordingly, the Supreme Council decides that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will take the necessary steps to establish an inter-ministerial coordinating body with a view to generalizing the legal position of the State on the issue of the interception and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression and the preparation of Ukraine's consolidated claim to the Russian Federation for the implementation of its international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. We also want the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a methodology to identify the damage and damage caused to Ukraine by the Russian Federation's armed aggression, also to develop and submit to the Supreme Council a bill on the registration of natural and legal persons who have suffered the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, and to continue to expand the use of the European Court of Human Rights mechanism to implement the international legal responsibility of the Russian Federation. There are also recommendations from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Security Service and the Ministry of Defence, within their powers to assist Kabmin in the creation of a single database, evidence of an act of Russian aggression. So, colleagues, I ask you now to adopt this decision in accordance with those recommendations and in the editorial form proposed by the committee that was worked together with the MFN. And I also very much hope, colleagues, that we will be able to approve with you the historic bill on diplomatic service in general during the years of independence. And I hope that on Thursday or soon, if there's a question, the MFZ is ready to report to the factions for the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. From the People's Front, Sergey High, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u19	Colleagues, thank you, we all, co-authors of this bill, believe that we must stop the practice that we see in the issue of claims and consolidated claims to the Russian Federation when every state authority takes steps in its sector that may not match the real situation and the real level of threat that we face. The question is, someone does it better, someone does it worse, we see Naftogaz in their sector doing what they can about Stockholm arbitration. We see that the M.I.D. is making claims, we see that the D.A. is trying to collect evidence. But we don't see the whole picture. Without calling the Russian Federation responsible for all the crimes that it has committed in our territory, for illegal annexation, for illegal aggression, for the occupation of Ukraine, in order to balance and verify all the crimes that it has committed in our territory, for the purpose of bringing the Russian Federation to its sector's responsibility, in order to be able to calculate how much damage, in financial terms, including the key, the Russian Federation has done us, and yet we need to put a consolidated account on it, we need coordination. Therefore, this decree foresees that Kabmin will assume the function of coordinating and forming a consolidated claim for all crimes committed by Russia against Ukraine. I'm asking you to vote for it, and the People's Front faction supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u20	Thank you. From Petr Poshenko's Block, Barn Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u21	Good afternoon! A bill is absolutely needed. And hybrid war also gives birth to the corresponding hybrid means that we should take to the Russian aggressor, as it were, the Asian Empire. And that's why, obviously, this bill is really necessary for a legislative, executive body, the Presidency Institute and defence to develop comprehensive measures for hybrid pressure on a Russian aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u22	Thank you. Sobolev Sergey of the Fatherland faction gives Igor Lucenka. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction clearly supports this decision. It is only sad to say that this decree came about only now that it is only now that the issue of calculating all these figures, the terrible numbers of our losses, our losses has arisen. And of course, it has to be done, even late. Because sometimes it feels like it's never going to be done at all, that there's never going to be enough and enough power to sue international institutions for the damage that's caused us by the aggression of the Russian Federation. In addition, we need to remind ourselves of these initiatives, which unfortunately sank in this Parliament, including initiatives to break diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. That's what any country does when it's a victim of aggression, showing that he's an aggressor, and we're breaking up diplomatic relations with him. Instead, this will be a serious argument -- the lack of diplomatic relations in the courts -- and it will be difficult for us to prove that we have this fact, not civil war, but Russian aggression. The other one. And we also need, and a great initiative, by the way, the People's Front will support it, is the breakup of this current visa regime, a visa-free regime with the Russian Federation. We need to get visas, just like Georgia did in its time. And every second time we hear about some sort of terrorist attack in Ukraine, the elimination of ours, that is, the officers in the back and the attacks on politicians, we hear that these are the armies of the Russian stars of terrorism. What is going on? Let us at least turn away from them so that our services can be more easily alerted to such things. Similarly, we should start a discussion on the modification, the breakup of the Friendship and Cooperation Agreement with Russia, the exit from the SND, and so on. So we have to do much more legal work than we're doing right now. Parliament is the most courageous international institution. So the Fatherland faction supports these initiatives and calls for all other initiatives to be supported in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u24	From "self-help" Taras Shepherd, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u25	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! It is clear that the Self-Help faction will support this determination as well as any initiative that is in this Parliament to strengthen our defenses in order to ensure that there is no armed aggression. But I have a question, and here one of my colleagues was talking about Putin today leading a hybrid war against Ukraine, and we have to provide hybrid measures. Unfortunately, I am not ready to accept that. Literally a few days ago, perhaps weeks ago, we all witnessed events that took place in Britain, where Russia actually killed two citizens of that country. And we were amazed and thrilled to see this, how the authorities of this country reacted to the aggressor, how quickly and abruptly they made decisions that were obviously supported by the entire people of Great Britain and the same Parliament, it was only two citizens of this country. Today, we have thousands of our soldiers killed. Today we have thousands of civilians killed by our Ukrainian citizens. For four years there is a war, and we continue to carry a hybrid in response to this armed aggression. For four years we could not call war a war, but occupied territory occupied, seeking hybrid answers to this aggression. Today we're going to put another one of those answers again, we're going to be making registers of how many Russia has killed our Ukrainians and how many criminal cases we need to break, how much property it's taken from us. When are we finally going to give a worthy tribute to the Russian Federation - an aggressor for that war, for the miserable lives that are in Ukraine today? When will the government finally show the same character that the governments of other nations today display, giving a dignified answer? If, on returning to that decision, it is only wrong to condemn an aggressor for breaking into our territory. This decree must include those who assist this aggressor while sitting in this room, those who helped this aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u26	30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u28	30 seconds, I've already given.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u29	This decree, and perhaps it is also worth including those who own businesses in Russia and, today, by paying taxes there in the territory, finance the occupation against us. Here, too, we need to include those who have Russian businesses in the territory of Ukraine and draw from it a gold currency supply, returning to Russia. Then it will not be a hybrid answer, but a real answer that will help Ukraine today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u30	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. So I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, in two minutes to finish the discussion, and we will vote. Now Igor Mosiychuk, two minutes and two minutes later, is invited to vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u31	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction will support this decision because it is what we have initiated. We firmly believe that this ruling will provide tools that will then be used when an international tribunal is held over an aggressor country. We believe that sooner or later the aggressor country will be responsible for the killing of Ukrainian, Syrian children, for the blood that is spilled around the world. At the same time, we call on our fellow Members of Parliament to consider as soon as possible a decision not to recognise the election of the President of the Russian Federation at all on not only the non-recognition of elections in the territory of the Ukrainian occupied Crimea, but in general. And now I'd like to focus on some more things. Recently, Foreign Minister Klimkin said that the Agreement on Friendship and Cooperation with the Russian Federation should be reviewed. We've been talking about this for two years, two years, and the right initiatives. A recent representative of the President in Parliament stated that diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation should be broken up. I remember these same people breaking a committee in international affairs three years ago to prevent the bill from being passed. Well, of course, the visa-free regime with the Russian Federation has to be abolished if we want to stop the terrorist flow to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u32	30 seconds, please. We're done. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please. Guys, I don't know if you're gonna make it out of bed, but you better get into the hall. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. The discussion is closed. And I want to remind you, after that, I'm going to propose a bill on the State Protection of the Ukrainian Government, and so after the vote, I'm going to ask you not to disagree. And now we're going to vote for the ruling. And I'm voting on the draft Ordinance on a package of urgent measures for the practical implementation of the international legal responsibility of the Russian Federation for armed aggression against Ukraine (No. 5463), on the basis and overall, of the Committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:40:16]] For 229 It's been decided. Now, colleagues, as he promised, we have included in the morning's agenda a draft Act on Amendments to the Law on State Protection of State Authorities, which stipulates that in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other state institutions that provide protection, which includes state protection, the prohibition of the introduction of cold weapons, firearms, and explosives. This bill, which has a unique property, was signed by all the heads of the factions of Parliament. All the heads of factions. We've taken it into the agenda, and that way we can get to it if there's room support. Does everyone understand what the law is talking about? Everybody backing up? Is there any general support, colleagues? Yeah? Are there any authors? I'm betting on a rating vote. Who's for us to now go to the draft Law 8155, please support me, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please support the rating vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone, the whole room. [[16:41:39]] For 213 We can go in. So, colleagues, I'm asking you now to support the proposal that we consider draft Law 8155 as a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[16:42:08]] For 172 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you once again that this law is very short, and that law we are applying to the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of the Government of Ukraine and Officials. These rights provide that Ukraine’s State authorities: the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the houses where other government authorities of Ukraine work are prevented from allowing persons with cold or firearms, as well as persons with explosives, explosives, explosives, ammunition of all kinds and specimens. And this issue is particularly relevant today in Ukraine and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the parliament of the warring country. And we know how much money Putin is invested in destabilizing the situation inside our country. We know that this is the norm in all European parliaments. This is the norm in the United States Congress. Moreover, every day when we go to the airport, we also give up firearms. We have furnished rooms where there will be an opportunity to leave a firearm when someone wants to go into the room with it. We're equipping all necessary technical conditions so that anyone who wants to enter with a gun can leave it behind and take it away after work day. I am convinced that this issue is of great importance and must find general support in the hall, regardless of political factions and regardless of political preferences. During his consideration, the committee made some amendments to the bill. I am now asking to listen very carefully to the representative of the committee of John Vinnick. And then we'll be able to talk about it, taking into account the corrections that the committee made. We today, I'm sure, have to adopt this bill as a whole. Please, John Vinnik is the representative of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, there's a lot of debate today in the watchtowers about this bill, and they're a little bit distorted about its contents. Many ask what will happen to the status of the national MP, journalists, other persons who are being examined, searched, and so forth. It's not really about the people I just mentioned in my speech. A bill on an object, on the construction of a public authority. This is the building of the Supreme Council, the construction of the Presidential Administration, the construction of the Cabinet of Ministers, to which persons, irrespective of their status as public-political, state-owned, and so on, if they have prohibited objects defined by this law, in this case the amendment of the Ukrainian Law "On the State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials", if such persons have such objects, they will be prohibited from entering these buildings. No one's gonna search, no one's gonna look. It's just that if you want to come in, you have to comply with the law. This is fully related to the status of a national MP that no one will examine. At the same time, in 2003 the Constitutional Court explained that the order of residence in separate subject-matters could be determined by legislation. In this case, the Supreme Council is working in a separate regime, which will be defined by this bill, where individual items -- weapons, cold weapons, explosives, ammunition of all kinds and specimens, teaching or imitation munitions, light-removable liquids or borrowed solids, pyrotechnics -- will be banned. The project also mentions toxic and powerful substances. According to the committee, the text of the bill proposes that the words "poisonous and powerful substances" be excluded. Please vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u34	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u35	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, well, I know that Ukrainians in this room want to see, not apes with grenades, but law makers, people who care about their welfare and the wealth of their families, not their own families, but millions of Ukrainians. Someone tells me that they say a national MP has the right to go through with a gun. And when he is removed, it limits his rights. And when you get on the plane, you don't know, do you have a gun? And all of you, like bunnies, have given up your weapons peacefully. Not only are you not allowed to carry weapons on the plane, but you are not allowed to smoke. And the MAU will have a glass of water for $2. And you pay that $2 to get you a glass of water. So why don't you get on the plane and stick around? They've come. They've given up their weapons. Fight with intelligence, not grenades or machine guns. Any fool can drop a grenade here. And when I'm told that society supports it to do so, there's this famous actress who plays it, so she didn't drop a grenade out there, in the logo, when she and Zacharyczenko met in Donetsk, along with her Ruban, she blew herself up with a grenade and those terrorists. So, dear colleagues, this law that we're going to adopt will limit the possibility of a monkey with grenades walking here. And in the next election, let's make sure that as little as possible a monkey as possible is in the Supreme Council. More people are decent, honest, responsible, patriotic, state and Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u36	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Najim Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, we strongly support this bill. The only thing I'd like to add to this bill is maybe after the first reading. I've been in this building for 15 years, looking at this whole process, first from the press balcony, and I've always been surprised by one thing. In this building, some deputies are allowed to enter not only with weapons but also with guards. Tell me, please, if we forbid MPs to carry weapons with us if we forbid helpers in crisis days to enter parliament, if we forbid anyone to carry any special equipment, why do people come with guards in the Supreme Council building? Who are we afraid of? So I want us to add to this bill that in the Supreme Council and some of the people who just stood here in this rostrum don't be afraid of cows, don't be afraid of people, they come here without guards, without private people following them. And it's a hysteric that started again, I'll remind you, I only came to Parliament in 2005, then the guards of Mr. Ahmedov, and now the party of Mr. Ahemtov, its leader, Mr. Ahmed's party, are going with the guards. Then the lawyers, the lovers, and everyone went with the guards. I want the next generation in this building to walk with no guards, no weapons, and no special equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u38	From the Self-Help faction of Shepherd Taras Timothyovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u39	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Our faction supports this initiative by the Head of the Supreme Council. Because, in fact, here in the room, we probably have to decide the state issues and vote for the law, not look around, who's here with the guns, who's not with the guns. But the only question and the only request that we have in Parliament is that this doesn't turn into a good idea with a bad execution into a distortion of this idea. That's why we appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to ensure that this procedure is adequately technical in order not to be turned into bags, but actually how it works in European parliaments through scanners. And this will really enable us to check not only the deputies, but also diplomatic representatives and any visitors to the walls of the Supreme Council. In general, it's a question of walking with weapons, using weapons, not just in the walls of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers or the President's Administration. Why do we fear, at a large cost, that a national MP with a gun will enter the Parliamentary wall, and for us there is no problem that the same MP will go to a school or go to a kindergarten and walk there with a gun? I just want to give the people's deputies a chance to understand that no one else's personal weapons have helped in this life, it's more likely to hurt. And it's probably the carrying of weapons in the walls of Parliament -- it's like some sort of inferiority complex. This needs to be disposed of in principle, not through security, or through scanners that we will continue to install here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u40	Thank you. Mr. Taras, I want to inform you that I have been given an answer after our meeting that by tomorrow, the necessary equipment will be installed at several entrances. So, the Yemeni Leonid Alexanderovich of the People's Front. And if you'll excuse me, there'll be a vote in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u41	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear friends, all humans are born equal. And no matter what job they're doing next -- whether they're President, Supreme Court judge, teacher or national deputy -- these people have equal rights. And that's why we promised in our own time to abolish the MP's intrusiveness and to make national MPs as touchy as all other people in our country, so that the laws that we adopt work for all people rather than celebrate people of the first class -- national MPs and all others, for whom there are absolute other laws written. So what we do is necessary, but it is a sort of fiction of the commitment we made, promising to undo the parliamentary integrity. Because weapons, because drugs, because all other illegal means that can be brought into Parliament, have long been banned for all other citizens of our country. And what we're doing right now is just correcting the global issue of parliamentary immunity. Tomorrow we'll have the issue of removing the immunity from another national MP. Let's remember, we promised to take away the touch as a class. We promised that MPs would be equal to all the other citizens of our country. We promised that by going to the elections. Promises have to be fulfilled. This law will support our faction. But I'll remind you, it's the turn to remove the MP's immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a closing statement from the opposition block of Dudenkov. And we're going to the vote in two minutes. And I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u43	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues! This legislative initiative will, of course, be supported by the Opposition Block. But there's no need to cynically cover yourself with hot slogans about equality, about the need to remove parliamentary immunity. When you vote for arrest and detention for the Opposition Block, you have enough votes, and when you vote for your deputies, you just take off the touch. This is about an equal approach to subtracting the touchiness. If you want to remove the intactness, please accept the changes, introduce a bill of amendments to the Constitution, and in the same way make changes to article 80, and not just slap your tongue here on the stand that you're against being untouchable. As far as this bill is concerned. The Opposition Block faction has never used cold, firearms. Why did this problem arise? I have such doubts that this problem has escaped because of a certain MP, Savchenko. I don't think this MP is the reason for this bill. Who is the cause of this phenomenon? This disgraceful phenomenon is just the majority of the MPs who join the coalition that formed the European Ukraine coalition that came in after Maidan, many of them had weapons. I've seen weapons myself in many deputies. Of course, weapons don't belong in this room. And I don't understand why the committee excludes the term "except for powerful and poisonous substances." Strong - acting toxic substances can be taken to the Supreme Council Hall? And this stuff doesn't have to have room in this room. Therefore, we need to be consistent and not be cynical in what we say. The bill is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u44	Thank you. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm asking for convincing support from everyone, this is the highest legislative body of the state, this is the building where key decisions are made in our country. Weapons on the front, many of us were there, where the war is, here is where the discussion should be in a word, in a position, in conviction and in a vote. And I'm convinced that the whole room, unanimously, will support this law. And I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Protection of the Government of Ukraine and the officials, as amended, which was written under the transcript by Committee John Vinnik (No. 8155), on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general with the Committee's rights. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, please support, we vote unanimously. [[16:57:27]] For 263 The law is passed. Thank you for supporting all the fellow members of the people. I think it was one of our responsible and right decisions. I just got an application for a break from two factions, the Radical and the People's Front, but they're willing to replace it with a tribune. And I give the floor to Maxim Burbak, the head of the People's Front faction. The People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a very important question. Today, during the performances, I stressed that the People's Front registered a decision yesterday to declare the so-called elections of the President of Russia illegal. I'm sorry the committee didn't consider it, but today, we haven't adopted this very important decision, because the reactions of our Parliament are waiting for the whole world. Above all, it is awaited by our Ukrainians, who are now hostages of the Putin regime, who now illegally in annexed Crimea did not go to the elections and did not vote for the so-called appointment of Putin. So we have to support them, and we have to react as soon as possible and recognize these elections as illegal, not in Crimea, but in Russia as a whole, because they have occurred with numerous violations of the current Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, all international treaties and the Budapest Memorandum. So I think we can't delay. Mr. Head, I would like to ask you to give an order to the committee of profile immediately to review the decree registered with the People's Front. And you don't have to play politics and you don't have to play politics and you don't have to play politics. Would you like to send him another card? So once again, I appeal to the Hall to support the People's Front initiative and to recognize the elections in Russia as illegal, illegal president and all the legal consequences. Because it will consolidate the legal position. I'm sure we'll win the war with Russia, and then Russia as an aggressor country, for which we all voted with you, will be responsible materially for all the damage to Ukraine during the illegal annexation of both Crimea and Donbas. So, dear fellows, don't play, this is the time of truth. And let's not delay, and let's give our citizens, who are currently in temporary occupied territories, supporting Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u46	Thank you. I think a committee full of responsibility to have this decision prepared. And I'm asking the committee to prepare so that we can look at it on Thursday. So, colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve corporate governance of legal persons whose shareholders are state-owned. I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We have several laws that have general support, and it's important that we just work actively and quickly. [[17:00:52]] For-153 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Nepheodov Maksim Evgenovich, First Deputy Minister for Economic Development. And I'm going to ask you briefly, because we have a few important bills ahead of us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to the Supreme Council a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the corporate administration of legal persons whose shareholder (founder and participant) is the State. The bill continues to reform the corporate governance of the state economy sector and contains a number of changes that will allow the management of state-owned enterprises to be more effective. These changes are four groups. First. This is a clear distinction between the powers of oversight council and the general congregations. The other one. The introduction at the legislative level of the basic principles of State ownership of key state-owned companies, the so-called property policy, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Which defines the main objectives of state-owned enterprises and, in fact, answers the question of why the state actually owns one enterprise or another and what its purpose is in the future. Third. Improving the mechanism for submission and approval of financial plans. Financial plans are now traditionally approved with enormous delay, and their consideration by government officials in ministries often becomes fiction. Unfortunately, the co-workers of many authorities have neither the ability nor the knowledge to actually work on a financial plan that should resemble a business plan of a private enterprise, not just a formal document. Finally, the fourth is the possibility of a consolidated payment of dividends, which corresponds to the general accounting policy voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill is the result of the fruitful work of government, international partners, many Ukrainian national deputies, supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Dear colleagues, ask for support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u48	Thank you. Please, you can go to work. The report is given to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuku Andrija. Andrew Ivanchuk, welcome, word for co-report. It's a bill. The honourable chairman of the committee is now preparing for the speech, Bill 6428. So you have a lot of reports today, Mr. Andrey?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u49	Madam Chairman, I'm sorry, I've lost something, so many of our initiatives. You are considering Bill 6428 – amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve corporate governance of legal persons whose shareholders are state-owned. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I would like to remind you that you and I have already taken a big step towards improving Ukrainian legislation in corporate governance, especially in enterprises that belong to the state. But unfortunately, the implementation of this bill has been reflected in more than one year, as I have been addressing both the Cabinet of Ministers and the government, only on the basis of such a state-owned enterprise as Naftogaz. And for today, the Cabinet of Ministers has seen the disagreements and the gaps that are today in corporate legislation, and the bill is taking them all down. I would just like to say one thing that on the committee we prepared editorial papers for the first reading and we would like to ask the Ukrainian Parliament to adopt the bill in the first reading with the proposals of the committee that we adopted on 20.09. 17 years old. They include the following items. May I have the transcript, Madam Chairman, read it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u50	Please add one minute to the head of the committee so that he can read under the transcript the positions the committee proposes to take into account during the consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u51	The following changes are proposed to the body of the law at the first reading stage: In paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of Section I of the draft law, which is supplemented by part 3 of article 4 of the Ukrainian Act, replace the word “entities of the economy” with the words and figures “state enterprises, economic societies, with 100 per cent of the state”. After the words “corporative management” add to the words and figures “and the main objectives of ownership, principles and mechanisms of corporate management of stock packages, parts of which the state owns in those farms, a part of which is less than 100 percent.” In paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of Section I of the draft law, the amendments relating to the addition of part 2 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property objects by new paragraphs 17/3 and 17/4 on the powers of government in the sphere of public property management. In paragraph 4, the words "for economic operators" should be deleted. In paragraph 5, the words “entities of the economy” should be replaced by the words and figures “state enterprises, economic societies, 100 percent of which are state-owned”. But to complete this paragraph with the words and figures "and also endorses the basic principles of the exercise of state ownership over a state particle in those households with a share of a state of less than 100 percent." In paragraph 8 of paragraph 3 of section 2 of section I of the draft law, the amendments relating to the completion of part one of article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the management of public property objects" by a new paragraph 37/1 concerning the powers of authorized authorities, the words "related to activity" should be deleted. In paragraph 3 of paragraph 5 of paragraph 2 of section I of the draft law, the amendments relating to the completion of part 1 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property by a new paragraph concerning the performance of members of the Supervisory Board of its duties, after the words "acts independently" shall be supplemented by the words "according to the powers granted to it". In paragraph 3 of paragraph 6 of paragraph 2 of section I of the draft Law, the amendments to part one of article 11.2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which relates to the characteristics of the administration of state-owned enterprises and households, with a statutory capital of more than 50 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u52	Dear colleague, I'm sorry, Mr. Andrew, look, we're about to disorient. No, look, we're disorienting the hall now, and we're now adopting a bill on the first reading. So why can't we go to the second reading? Okay, so why are we reading again? I'm just being approached by people's deputies who are protesting what we are now. Dear colleagues, I will then invite the Hall to vote against what Mr. Andrew read under the transcript. And if there's any protest against that, we're just going to vote on the draft law in the first reading, as it was given. Please give me another 30 seconds to complete the repairs and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u53	I agree, but the room has already voted, including your faction, for an incomplete procedure. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u54	Can I talk to you? Paragraph 2 and 3 of paragraph 1 of the draft law refers to parts of the first 33 on shareholder associations to exclude. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of subsection 3.3 of section I of article 52 shall be deleted. Dear friends, now essentially why I've read and your attention has been diverted. I pay particular attention to Mr. Alexander Abdullin. On the committee, we made a unanimous decision, all the factions, that we narrow down the operation of this law only to enterprises where the state owns 100 percent of the shares. So according to the law, I want it to fall into the body at stage one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u55	Thank you very much for the clarification. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Abdullin! I now invite those who wish to speak in this bill to sign up. And I would like to make a statement during the discussion and position, as the faction sees voting for the bill with the amendments that the head of the committee reads under the transcript, proposing a more lenient presentation of the rules of law or in the first edition. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Humil. National Deputy Humil.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u56	Dear Mrs. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank the head of the Economic Policy Committee for this thorough report and submission of the bill. And here's what I'm going to say. What I don't think is lazy is criticizing the work of state-owned enterprises and not telling them that it's a source of corruption, of inefficient government ownership and so on. I would like to stress that we have recently voted in favour of the Big Privatization Act, the President has signed the Big Privatization Act and has launched privatization. There are still a number of enterprises that need to be effectively managed and managed in these enterprises. The bill is specifically called upon to divide the powers of the general congregations of oversight councils in those enterprises. Moreover, with the clarification made by the chairman of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk, it is said that this is a strategically important enterprise, where the state owns 100 percent. So, dear fellows, I urge you all to postpone your political beliefs and to be guided by purely economic pragmatism and to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u57	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Olga Belkova, please. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! I'd like to join the arguments that have already been made by the reporter and a colleague from the People's Front. It is very important that the Supreme Council be consistent in all its reforms. We've already adopted the first bill that actually created supervisory boards for the largest businesses. The pilot project was NAC Naftogaz. In turn today we expect the creation of very important supervisory councils in Energoatom, Centrenergo and so on, Ukrenergo. Those companies. What time will be left in government ownership and perhaps even forever. It is important for politicians to stand outside, and it is the professional supervisory board that governs these very important strategic companies. At the same time, it is not enough simply to hire and place some people there with nice résumés. They need to have real powers to approve financial plans, to take full responsibility for the strategies of all these companies. And that's exactly what this law does. We share the authority between the owner of Kabmin’s person, as well as the general congregations and the oversight councils. In fact, we establish all the principles that are in international standards. And I urge all colleagues in this room to support this. Because this will result in this bill and its standards being put into effect will result in the updating of the principles of government management. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u59	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! What is this law about? Or listen to the majority, as if we had to vote for him. Now let's essentially do this. Under this law, the Cabinet of Ministers has no right at all to control the activities of state-owned enterprises, such as Energoatoma, NAK Naftogaz, Zorya-Mashproject, and on the list that it is. What is more, it is not possible to approve the Finnplans now. These state-owned enterprises, which are 100 percent state-owned, will now have no State control. Third. This bill predicts that all things will happen to so-called supervisory councils. Why? Because the state cannot control these objects. So the state can't put one manager and approve the Finnplans, but it can set up supervisory boards, picking 8 to 10 people who are assigned by whom. Call me an idiot investor who will at least make a penny after that, understanding who will be behind these oversight boards. This is a bill that shows that there is no authority in Ukraine. This is a bill that shows that after its adoption all state ownership will be divided between: (a) financial monopolies, (b) criminal clans. And the state washes its hands, it doesn't approve of financial plans. The state has no right to control what is happening in key areas. I don't think this bill had the right to be passed through an anti-corruption committee. Here are all the corruption risks, here are all the risks that the state will lose completely any control over the state-owned coal, energy, nuclear, oil and gas industries. It's a bill on the embezzlement of state property. That's what you should call him. The Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. That's why I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. So, from the Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk. Please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u62	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, this Ministry of Economics, this government has no industrial policy, no vision of economic strategy. All they keep coming to this room is either privatization, or some minor deregulation, or new loans from the International Monetary Fund. No serious questions. In the Radical Party team, the opposite is seen: the adoption of such laws that create jobs, raise citizens’ incomes, invest in new productions, and invest in Ukraine. You see, over the last three years, what initiatives have been proposed by the Ministry of Economics. Just to get foreign loans. What did we do in this room? The 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood; the increase of three export duties on scrap metal; the tax incentives for Ukrainian gas production; energy service contracts to eliminate energy dependence on Russia and other imports; the removal of import duties, VAT and excise duties on electric vehicles; the freezing of land tax indexation; the two-year schedule of import VAT for all manufacturing equipment for all industries. These are the laws that have already been passed, which have entered into force. What does the Ministry of Economics do? They're sabotaging their embodiment. The export credit agency was created only on paper, although its real creation would cost credit at the same time. We propose to adopt strategic, industrial, economic initiatives: "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians", industrial parks, free networking. This will allow Ukraine to rise to the European level of well-being rather than to do it, as it is being dragged back and forth into this room. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u63	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Here's another one. Well, colleagues. Okay. We've been warned. Sidorovich, one minute, please. And the pigeon is one minute. Sidorovich – one minute and Dove – one minute. During that time, come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, when we talk about reform in the public administration sector, we have certainly always stood in the position that ministers should not engage in direct business management. The minister should be involved in defining the policies of the business, not in manual management in one area or another. However, when we talk about the formation of supervisory councils, we do not see in the bill specific qualifications for members of such a supervisory board. Who will these people be, and what qualities will they possess? What should the statute of business look like? In what way and by what criteria financial reports and financial plans will be approved, it is not clear. Little is needed in this case to talk about an integrated strategy to address governance in the public sector, including a change in the philosophy of the privatization process itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u65	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u66	Not the point changes we've been given by voting on the new Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. So in this case, self-help requires a more complex, deeper approach to ensure quality management, such as in Sweden, where state-owned enterprises are run by boards and where being a member of the board of directors is a great honor for a non-state businessman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u67	Thank you. The pigeon is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u68	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, you're always in favour of the full implementation of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If I'm not mistaken, a reduced procedure is a procedure that applies in exceptional cases. So just so it doesn't happen now, when a completely new draft of the bill is formally read under the transcript, no person in the room has a bill marked on their hands, how can I vote, excuse me, for a cat in a bag? That's why, honourable colleagues, despite the fact that I believe that the substantive part of the prescribed bill is to be adopted, but given that we formally accept the "cat in the bag," I propose that everyone abstain during the vote and send for the re-reading of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u69	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm just going to put two options: one is just the base, and the other is based on the committee's rights. Will that be fair? The head of the committee, will it be fair? Let me do the ratings first on those two proposals. First, it's a committee proposal. Attention! The rating vote is now under way. Who's in charge of supporting Bill 6428 on the basis of the committee's proposal? Whoever supports such a proposal made by the committee, please vote on who supports such a position. Please. The committee's revisions are now being voted on, rating. [[17:22:47]] For-167 Next one's on the ground. Who's to just support it? The rating vote. Or, no, not the rating anymore, that's how we vote. Is that right? Or, give me the ratings. Based on the base. Who's in charge of the foundation? [[17:23:15]] For-187 So the position of voting simply as a basis has shown greater support. And that's why, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. Let's see the factions. Show the factions, please. That is why I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve corporate governance of legal persons whose shareholders (founding member) are the State (No. 6428). On the basis of that, colleagues. Just on the ground. Please vote. Please support me as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:24:09]] For 201 The committee for processing, will it be supported? I make the following proposal, by order, to refer the draft Law 6428 to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. To re-read the committee's first reading. Please be supportive. Vote. Don't let him get shot at all. Please be supportive. [[17:24:42]] For 241 Decision taken. We are moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to regulate certain phytosanitary procedures (6673). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[17:25:15]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, today there are major problems in the field of phytosanitary control. The critical situation involved notifications. The main reason is the low quality of phytosanitary expertise. The phytosanitary service simply lacks the necessary number of inspectors and material and technical facilities. The bill proposes to solve this problem by authorizing additional and private laboratories to carry out separate phytosanitary procedures. It's just about sampling and phytosanitary expertise. Authorization is a common European practice when private laboratories at the level of the state take samples and conduct expertise. The issue of a phytosanitary certificate remains with the state, that is, the state inspector will decide whether the cargo meets the phytosanitary requirements. The bill does not destroy the existing system of phytosanitary expertise, but only complements it. The state labs that work today will work as well. Moreover, they will not be subject to additional accreditation conditions for three years, and they will automatically be considered authorized. The proposed changes will contribute to improving the quality of phytosanitary expertise, and the Maintenance Service will be able to devote more time to field inspection. A bill supported by the Ministry of the APC, a professional association, all agree that the problem needs to be solved. So please, Your Honor, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u71	Thank you. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Mr. Alexander Borisovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u72	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations discussed at its meeting on 11 July a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of certain phytosanitary procedures (registration number 6673). Realizing that agrarians expect urgent acceptance of changes to phytosanitary procedures in the state, the members of the committee, during the consideration of the bill, support the proposal of the Head of State to introduce to the text of the draft the following technical rights that I'm going to hear under the transcript. In the text of the bill, the words "selective" and "serious" are deleted in all differences and numbers. In paragraphs 2 of Subparagraph 2, 9 of Subparagraph 3, paragraph 2 of Subparagraph 7, of Section 2 and of the Bill after the words "view and" add to the word "selective" in appropriate exceptions. Paragraph 5 of subsection 4, section 2 of the bill after the words "laboratory and" should be completed with the word "selective". In paragraph 31 of paragraph 6 of paragraph 2 of section I of the bill, after the word "receiving" should be completed with the words "for one year." Subparagraph 11(2) of Section I of the bill should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: "The phytosanitary measures applied to imports should be equivalent to the phytosanitary measures of the exporting country in regulating imports of plants and plant products originating in Ukraine." Paragraph 3 of paragraph 17 of section 2 of the bill and add the words "which approves the Cabinet of Ministers" to exclude. Please support the bill's registration number 6673 on the basis and generally as a law with regard to the amendments announced under the transcript. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u73	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Sugunako's giving the floor to Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u74	We will support this bill, but I would like to take this opportunity to express myself on the grounds of the previous vote. In fact, a very serious discussion, a very important bill, a bill that was supposed to regulate the relationship between supervisory councils, general assemblies and government, actually start a new era in the administration of the state sector of the economy, make it effective, productive. But because of the shortcomings in the current Rules and the inability to vote, and to consider this bill in full procedure, we unfortunately failed it. And today we could ask the question in full procedure: when the Naftogazu dividends will be reduced, when the Naftogazu wage will finally be reduced. When, on the occasion, do I want to update the issue of making a single social contribution to Naftogazu's salary? Because we have a paradox today. A regular worker in a village, in a factory, in a factory that barely lives out of those 3-5 thousand dollars pays 22 percent of the only social contribution to the Pension Fund, and the management of the Crossroads, the deputy ministers, ministers, heads of state-owned enterprises, in particular state-owned enterprises, pay this only social contribution to the Pension Fund to our dear pensioners, who unfortunately are begging for only 40,000 dollars today, and unlike in a million, two, three no admissions to the Pension Fund. We could consider these important issues today, open up these important discussions if our legislation, the Rules, the valid Rules of the Supreme Council gave us this opportunity. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Head, with similar bills that are important, historical for the national economy to look at in full procedure and express different positions, different opinions, and open up such a dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. No, there'll be two more performances. But that still means that in five minutes we're going to vote, and I'm asking the heads of factions to mobilize the national MPs. Now, from the "Fatherland" faction, Kirilenko is handing over Yvchenka. Vadim Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u76	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this law can only be supported on the basis of the changes made to this law offering some reconciliations, such as with the International Plant Protection Convention and the WTO Committee. We're going to have to get all the WTO members to make the right comments and make a certain notification. What is the added value of this bill? Plus in this bill, we're going to involve private labs to do some expertise, but accredited by the state. And the second plus is that we're greatly simplifying, think about, importing a small number of items of regulation into postal departures or manual trusts. Colleagues, I want to say that re-phyto-sanitary expertise, according to this law, will be conducted exclusively in state laboratories. Plus, there's going to be a significant reduction in the duration of this expertise. So, taking all these comments into account, we ask for support on the basis of further work, including with the comments that our international partners will give us, according to the WTO convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u77	Thank you. And a closing statement from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. And let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I can see some of the deputies coming out of the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, there will be a vote now, invite your colleagues and members of the factions into the hall. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On behalf of millions of Ukrainian peasants, I call upon you, honourable national deputies, to adopt the law without delay and to prohibit the use of palm oil in dairy products. Palm oil is the destruction of Ukrainian health, it's a huge damage to Ukrainian peasants, because producers of so-called milk products are dipping there instead of Ukraine's best milk, dropping palm oil there, then poisoning our children, our citizens, making profits, and therefore there's no price for milk. Because instead of milk, palm oil products are sold. For three years, a corresponding bill registered in the Supreme Council, a lobby sitting here in parliament, blocks its adoption. Because Ukrainian health benefits are earned instead of giving a real market price for Ukrainian milk so that Ukrainian peasants can feed themselves, the authorities adopt laws to prohibit the purchase of milk into peasants, but they feed us so - called dairy products containing palm oil. So if you are concerned about the future of the Ukrainian nation, about the health of Ukrainians, children first. We ask you, from the agrarian committee, to consider immediately our bill on the prohibition of palm oil, to bring it to Parliament next week, to ban the use of palm oil in dairy products, this will enable more implementation of milk to Ukrainian farmers, to give a real price for milk, and most importantly, to preserve the lives and health of Ukrainians. Whoever's allowed to sell palm oil, I'll tell you two weeks you'll eat palm oil and put your feet forward on the cemetery. That's not how you spend your time. That's how you spend your time with Ukrainians. Get the palm oil out of the Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u79	So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues, the committee’s readouts, are more technical, as the committee head explained to me. And that's why I'm going to put in the paperwork that the head of the committee gave me under the stenogram. Yes, so I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing certain phytosanitary procedures (No. 6673) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me set up a committee. It won't work, then I'll build a foundation. Okay? On the contrary, first of all, on the ground. Okay. Based on the base. So please support base 6673. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:36:54]] For 246 Decision taken. I don't even put it in general. I don't even make the committee's decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, ratings. A rating vote is not a vote. Ratings. Who supports the committee's proposal, and it sounds like this, in general, with the committee's rights. Who supports the ratings is voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm conducting a rating vote. So please take part in the rating vote that supports this proposal. I run a rating vote, I have the right to conduct a rating vote at any stage. [[17:37:36]] For-170. Colleagues, I'm asking the rating vote any question. So, colleagues, we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This law is adopted as a basis. This is a draft of Law 6693, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the development of the production of terrarium wines and natural honey drinks (6693). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:38:20]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Vadatur Andrija Alexiyovich. Vadim, Vadim Ivchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u80	Yeah, three minutes. Three minutes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u81	Yeah, yeah, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u82	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We propose Bill 6693, which will support small business, will satisfy the consumer. We're proposing a bill that will restore the wine industry in Ukraine. I'll give you a few digits. In France, the number of land taken under vineyards is 850,000 hectares, in Germany 100,000 hectares, in Ukraine 45,000 hectares, 4 times less than in 91. The number of producers is 65,000 in France, 40,000 in Germany and 61 in Ukraine. Think of it as a thousand times less. So one manufacturer in France is almost 13 hectares of land, Germany is two and a half acres, and Ukraine is 737. So you and I, we just destroyed a small and medium-sized producer. But this Parliament has already corrected the mistake. In October 2017, we removed the economic barrier, we cancelled the licence that had been in force since 2007 and that amounted to almost 500,000 dollars a year. What does that mean? For a large manufacturer, it's 10 copies per bottle, and for a small producer, it's almost 70 bracelets per bottle. How could you compete? That's why we canceled it. Today, manufacturers are waiting for us to remove another bureaucratic barrier. What is it? To obtain a wine - making license, you need 140 permits and your own expensive quality laboratory. We suggest replacing 140 permits with a declaration. Registration of this declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u83	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u84	We're proposing to register the declaration in five days. We also allow the use of an accredited laboratory instead of having to have our own expensive laboratory. So are we. This is a deregulation for a small manufacturer that produces up to 10,000 delicacies per year. Second, he works with his own grown grapes. And without adding alcohol, it's important that there's no abuse. We also simplify the procedure for the approval of new wine brands. We're proposing this bill that regulates this market, legalizes this market, creates jobs in the countryside, that is, costs will come into local budgets, into government budgets and into the Pension Fund. We'll also raise the quality of our wine, we'll reduce imports, and we'll increase exports in the future. I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, time's up. And I'm asking for the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna, to report now. And, colleagues, I ask you to be more concise so that we can adopt another law. This law, shown to me by the apparatus, is supported by all factions. Let's have a quick discussion and support it. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u86	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Let me report to the committee on this legislative initiative. I'm not going to repeat the thesis that the author and the copyright team have reflected in their project. I would like to stress the general trend of this bill. This is the encouragement of winemaking and the liberalisation of wine production. At the same time, this bill, in most of the proposed novelties, is aimed at supporting only small productions of wine production with an annual volume of not more than 10,000 delicacies per year, that is, 100,000 litres per year of purely own production and without the right to use alcohol. In general, the figures already tell us how far back we have been in production. The committee, taking into account the positive conclusion of the government, supported the bill and suggested that it should be adopted as a whole with further technical and legal processing and with some rights to chapter I of the bill, which I will give to the transcript. First. In the second paragraph of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of paragraph 2, replace the words “civil society” with the words “civil society”. In paragraph 2, the second paragraph of paragraph 1 should read as follows: "In paragraph 20, the words “credited by the executive authorities authorized” shall be replaced by the words “own or engaged in contractual terms in cases provided for by this law accredited." In sub-paragraph 3, in paragraph 6, the word “accredited laboratory authorized by the competent authority in accordance with the requirements of legislation” should be replaced by the words “credited according to the law of the laboratory”. In paragraph 17, the words "allowed by the central executive authority in the field of health of Ukraine for wine production" should be replaced by the words "according to the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for the Safety and Quality of Food". To be completed by a new paragraph: the form of the declaration, the order of its submission and registration shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u88	In sub-paragraph 6, the first sentence of part one should be completed with the words "and grain distillate." Please support the committee's proposal and support our farmers and winemakers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Please two in, two in, two in. 5th Vassil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, a perfectly clear bill. Therefore, I ask you not to waste much time but to support it in a friendly way for all the halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u91	Thank you so much for your flexibility. From Fatherland, Vadim Yvchenko. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, many of you are traveling around the world. But what do we do to make our wine production grow? In the 16th year, we accepted the changes where we cancelled the license fee. In fact, we likened these little vines to large liquor factories that pay for their license. Have we made a move? We did. What is the next step? And the next step is that these small vines are to be licensed, to make appropriate permits, and to collect more than 140 documents. Colleagues, we've been looking at the bill on the committee, and we've determined that it's these small wine-growing enterprises that actually have their own wine-making products that have to have the right nature to submit documents, provided that the material-technical base is appropriate and that their production is traceable. We suggest that this bill be adopted as a basis, in general, and believe me, it will give a significant impetus to some of our regions to develop this field. And what I'm going to say is, we're going to propose more and more in order for them to have a more strategic perspective and to offer a minimum lease of land under long-term plantings, it has to be increased just to make them develop this sector, just to create jobs. Let's support the whole thing and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u93	From the "Block of Peter Poshenko" of Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues from all political factions, I urge everyone to unite, vote and support this bill, because we prove that not only are we a powerful agricultural country capable of producing produce, but we are capable of being those who make it on a high and quality level, our farmers have proved it. So let's also support small producers, and we'll prove once again that we're a country with a powerful, powerful potential. I therefore propose that we all support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please invite the people's deputies to maximize their mobility. Now, Markevich Jaroslav of Self-Help, please. And in two minutes, the vote will take place. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u96	The adoption of the bill will allow for easy conditions for small-scale enterprises, since the licensing procedure for today provides for nearly 140 permits. Our bill provides for simplified procedures for licensing on the basis of a declaration principle. The adoption of this bill will have a positive effect on the restoration of small businesses in winemaking, the development of wine tourism in Ukraine, the jobs in rural areas, and the availability of government budgets. We support it on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Jaroslav. Thanks for the show. And we're moving on to making a decision. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the development of the production of terruary wines and natural honey drinks (No. 6693) on the basis and in general, including the transcripts of the committee by the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. Colleagues, we support the Ukrainian producer, we support Ukrainian winemaking. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[17:49:46]] For 247 Decision taken. Now, pay attention, fellows! The law is passed, generally accepted. My colleagues, I was approached by a number of deputies. Attention! Attention! Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen. We can't make it through two bills. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms. All the religious organizations of Ukraine have been asked to simplify taxation for all religious organizations. I was informed that he was supported by all the factions. It's a short law, we're simplifying the religious institutions' tax registration. He's through two laws. Now I'll have him transferred to the hearing. I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Paul! Radical party, negotiation. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons (on the drafting of documents of religious organizations). It is a request from both Philareta and all the religious dignitaries that we may now consider. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, come on, let's all support each other. A letter from religious organizations came to me, and I ask for your support, for this is the request of many deputies. Please vote. Vote. We'll be able to do it. [[17:51:30.]] For-161 Why 161? So he's standing in two, next he's standing. Colleagues, me. Could you give me a letter, please? Paul! Colleagues! We have a chance. Give a letter from religious organizations. I think people just didn't get their bearings. Colleagues! A request from the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches, all religious organizations. A request from Patriarch Filaret, from Shevchuk, a colleague. It's just a simplification of taxation for religious organizations. Colleagues, all religious organizations. Is that okay? Paul, you'd better go through the hall and explain, explain to the national deputies. One minute, Paul Unguryan, please. One minute, Paul Unguryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, welcome! This is Bill 6642, which was drafted at the request of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and the Patriarch Filaret and the Blaze Archbishop of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of Svetoslav Shevchuk. This is a technical amendment to ensure that the charters do not require a notary certificate and all. So these aren't the religious bills that go in another religious block. This is a technical bill, and colleague Halasyuk on the Enterprise Committee supported this bill both on the basis and in general. So here's a request for support, this is a technical bill that's been waiting almost a year for its turn, and it's finally coming today. This is supported by all churches and, in particular, by Patriarch Filaret and the Archbishop of the UCC, have requested that he be considered today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u99	My colleagues, I think. So I'm going to give you letters from now. I don't understand this intrigue because it's just about simplifying registration, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting, I'm asking you to be careful about the vote, the proposal. I can continue the meeting. In order to be able to consider now the draft Act amending the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (for the drafting of documents of religious organizations) (No. 6642). This is a vote on whether we can now move on to its consideration, we can make it. If we don't make it, I'll close the session. If there's room will, we'll look at it. Do you understand the position? Unguran explained it. Please vote, please support the passage to this bill now. Please vote, please support. Please vote, vote. [[17:55:25]] For-191 There's no room, there's no room to work with. We colleagues have had a hard day, a busy day, and we have made important fundamental decisions. And I very much ask everyone tomorrow at 10 a.m. to be in the hall. The message is now given to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that traditionally March 21st honors the World Day of Support for Down’s Syndrome. We urge everyone tomorrow to wear colorful socks and to remember that we are all different, but we are all equal, thus supporting the children of the sun and the sun tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m1.u101	Thank you very much. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to continue our work is not easy, but it's what the country needs. Thank you very much.
