ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u1	Time taken for a break is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session, please. So, everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Can we make a registration? So please prepare for registration and please participate in the registration. Please register, colleagues. [[16:05:48]] 365 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I want to inform you that I have received an application from two factions requesting a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Radical Party and Self-Help are ready to replace the break provided for in the Rules by a statement from the rostrum. And I invite you to speak from two factions the head of the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! We asked you, in the morning, to consider draft legislation for the social protection of the Chernobyl population. You didn't hear us. One bill has been passed -- and it has no bearing on the protection of the Chernobyl population. The key, in particular, is Bill 4442, authored by members of the Radical Party, who is known by every black man in Ukraine, that this is the bill that restores the law on state protection, the social guarantees of heroes who eliminated the Chernobyl disaster 32 years ago. Unfortunately, for either lack of conscience or for any other reason, you have lost your sense of reality. No parliament allowed itself to ignore the interests of the Chernobylites, to disrespect them, to humiliate them, and more so on the eve of the disaster anniversary. Therefore, once again, the Radical Party team insists that you put before you the bill 4442, which restores state guarantees, the social protection of the Chernobyl population, annuls the decision of the Azarov government to manually manage state budget funds aimed at social protection for the Chernobyl population. Until this decision is taken until Parliament considers draft legislation for the protection of the Chernobyl population, the Radical Party team has decided to block the parliamentary rostrum. I refer to all concerned MPs, to those who are concerned about the problems of the Ukrainians, to those who are hurting the fate of the people in Ukraine, to join our action to block the parliamentary rostrum until the Supreme Council reviewes the drafts, does not reopen the Act on Social Protection for the Chernobylites, will not return to our heroic defenders what they belong to: support for public attention, recalculation of pensions, restoration of social programs and medical programmes for the rehabilitation of the Chernobylites. Many areas of Ukraine, millions of people have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. The Radical Party calls for the restoration of food at the expense of the State Budget to children in schools in the radiation pollution zone. The Radical Party calls for the recalculation of pensions for the Chernobylites, the restoration of social programs and medical rehabilitation programs for these people. We call upon all concerned patriotic MPs, who have a conscience, who have a great heart, who have a responsibility to people, to join in protests, to defend the rights of the Chernobylites.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u3	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I see there's low mobilization in the hall. And I want to let you know that by noon we had been looking at the nuclear policy and nuclear security bloc. Before the conclusion of our morning session, the chairman of the committee requested that the only question left be transferred to the next plenary meeting. And so we completed our consideration of the bloc of nuclear policy and nuclear security. The next block that we have in order of the day is a block of environmental policy. And the first law in the environmental policy box is the draft Act amending the Public Program for the removal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hiddenness" object into an environmentally sound system. I would also like to report that this bloc also envisages the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This block has four questions. Two of them are directly concerned with the issue of the Chernobylites, their social protection, and government policies regarding the Chernobyl AES. And so, colleagues, now I'm going to move on to the first law on environmental policy issues, this is the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and on the Conversion of the Protection Object to an Environmentally Safe System (6624). Since the environmental block has four laws to enable us to consider them, I'm making a proposal to the committee to consider it in a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support me. [[16:12:06]] For-66 There is no summary procedure in the room. That's why we're going to look at the full procedure for the draft Law 6624 on change to the General Government's programme of decommissioning from the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hidden" object into an environmentally sound system. And I invite you to the report first of all, the representative of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, John Rybak. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich, your opinion is proposed by a bill to amend the General Government's programme of decommissioning from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and transforming the "Hidden" object into an environmentally sound system. The purpose of the bill is to approve a single document on the definition of decommissioning activities from the Chernobyl AES operation and the conversion of the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system and budgetary financing of this activity by 2020. The execution of the first-line actions of the General Government Program for the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power station and the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally safe system has been exhausted. In view of the lack of funding, a large number of planned measures were simply stopped and not fully implemented. The draft changes to the General Government programme are designed to take into account the terms that have passed, the current state of operation and plans for decommissioning of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system by 1965, and the budgetary financing of this activity by 2020. As stated in the financial and economic justification for this bill, the implementation of the updated State Programme will provide for the allocation of more than 4 billion dollars from the State budget for 2017-2018 for the implementation of the final phase-out measures. Closure and conservation. The adoption of this bill will ensure the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation, the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the damaged fourth power grid of this nuclear power plant to an environmentally sound system, and will become the legislative basis for further development and implementation of complex measures from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant blocks, the conversion of the "Hiddening" facility into an environmentally sound system. The main scientific and expert management in the general conclusion believes that the first reading of the draft can be considered as a basis. The Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations 2015-2016, which was dedicated to the issue of the alienation zone, has repeatedly stressed the need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Programme of Removal from the Operation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and to ensure the continued financing of all measures to be carried out in accordance with the fourth energy grid. The committee draws your attention to the need for sufficient financial support for the national programme, as the lack of funds can lead to the postponement of planned measures that will require further funding and also have a negative impact on nuclear and radiation security on the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Dear colleagues, this object is no less significant than those. This bill is no less significant than the bills that we have considered today in the energy and nuclear security bloc. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. And that's why the Committee on Environmental Policy and overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster asks you to support the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Now the question to the reporter. Three minutes of questions to the reporter. I'm asking you to record a question. Please. Please, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Paul Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u7	Please, Mr. Paul. Turn on the Dziblik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address all of you. Oleg Valeriyovich, I understand that the questions, the ones you're raising, and why you blocked the rostrum, I fully support. And I'd also like to bring these questions up on Thursday, on Thursday, but other issues that are in the agenda today are also very important. I'd like to ask you to get into work and support the issues that stand in order of the day. Because we really need to fund the Hidden object and do everything we can to make it work, not again, to reap from other political moments and dividends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u9	Thank you. I understand it's not a question, it's a speech. So I would like to invite you right now to the words of Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. Please. And Bereza Borislav. Turn on the microphone. Question to the rapporteur of the committee's representative, John Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to pay attention to the fact that there are now fewer than 150 deputies in this room. Who are we for? Mr. Krulko, if you sit down, I will be very grateful. Thank you. Now there are almost 150 deputies in the hall, a little less. But for whom do we set up this show? We can't look at this bill, we're going to overturn it. Moreover, I have great respect for you, my colleagues who are now in the hall. But can you now contact the factions' heads to invite our colleagues with you to the hall? Because otherwise we're gonna crash this bill, and the next one. And we will not be forgiven by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u11	Thank you. So turn on John the Fisherman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill was expected to be considered in the session hall for about a year. Dear colleagues, we can't stop this bill today. I ask, really, to take a sober look at this problem that is now in the room, and everyone to return to the hall to make a positive decision on this bill. This bill is expected by the Chernobyl nuclear power station. This bill, the adoption of this bill, is expected by our partners, donors who are helping to build the Hidden. Dear colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u13	Thank you. So now I'm asking you to record the heads of factions and groups to discuss this bill. I'm asking you to record, please, the factions and groups to participate in the recording, please. From Self-Help to Markevich. Yeah? Please, Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u14	Thank you. Markevich, Self-Help faction. Bill 6224 needs to be adopted because without it, it is impossible to move further towards guaranteeing the environmental security envisaged for removal from Chernobyl’s AES. However, it should be noted that the second phase of the State-wide final removal program from the conservation of reactors remains undeclared by law. One reason for the problem of implementing long-term government programmes is that it is difficult to prescribe such programs, given the lack of medium-term budget planning. Currently, programmes in the annual budget are planned in parts that significantly inhibit their implementation. So the Self-Help faction, first of all, supports Bill 6624 and insists on the adoption of the midterm budget planning bill as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u15	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u16	My speech, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Mr. Head, for being able to express your position again. Colleagues, have a conscience, and I look at you, many of you are just indifferent. You don't care about us, you don't care what your colleagues stand for and block the rostrum, but you can't be indifferent to the Ukrainians, but you've all promised them, Alexander Abdullin, and I'm addressing you. Everyone promised people when they went to the elections to protect their rights. So let us demonstrate that our promises do not conflict with our actions. Law 4442, which restores the social protection of the Chernobyl population, provides State guarantees for these people. What's the problem? A committee has passed, a bill has been prepared, so let's take it to the hall and look at it. A bill on the restoration of State funding for nutrition for children in schools. What is the problem with considering it? You're saying that there are laws here that aim at the social protection of the Chernobyl population right now. No, we've been very familiar with them all, there's no laws here, don't lie to people. So the Radical Party faction, the non-fractional colleagues that support us, we demand your sympathy for the Chernobylites. There is no responsibility, there is no desire to help, so even if you feel sorry for these people who go to the pharmacy for their money and get out of the pharmacy, you can't buy the medicine because there's no money. Empathy and justice, which millions of people demand. And we stand for their rights here, and we say on their behalf: justice, honesty and compassion, an honest attitude towards heroes, compassion for those in need of help, and justice for every Ukrainian, not the lies and injustices that you bring forth today by your actions. So we continue to block the rostrum for justice, for truth, and for honesty toward the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u17	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word "Ribback John." Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I, like my faction, will definitely support all the draft legislation aimed at the social protection of the Chernobylites and the people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And that is why we are responsible for every bill that is being considered in this room, and we will definitely support it. And remember, there are currently 150 tons of solid radioactive waste in the fourth energy cloud, about 15 tons of spent nuclear fuel. Obviously, for further storage, it is necessary to create a repository. Scientific and technical support is needed to really preserve these wastes, so their numbers are a threat not only to Ukraine, but also to all civilized humanity. The provisions of the bill suggest further changes to the destruction of the fourth energy cloud into an environmentally sound system, which is a prerequisite for preserving the environmental situation in Ukraine. Ukraine has already completed a number of tasks to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, but the plan of action is incomplete. To do so, it is also necessary to accept changes according to the relevant national program. Dear colleagues, our faction will definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u19	Thank you. Are the factions still willing to speak? Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u20	We support Parliament's decision to seriously consider these bills, which today are aimed at protecting and ensuring the State's social responsibility for the tragedy that took place in Chernobyl. Unfortunately, it must be confirmed that today, by the first vote of the bill we started today, all factions, instead of the Fatherland, left children living in Chernobyl-related territory, free eating in school, passed the law in the first reading, saying that they would make the monetary. We know that all the Chernobyl benefits every fraction that votes each year of the budget support changes in the Transitional Positions, which doesn't change the law, we've suspended the action today for the Chernobyls to receive additional funds for treatment. I will remind all government officials that at the retirement of 1,380, one chapel in radiation sickness, or cancer, costs 1,850. We're today. All the niggers are talking about not getting a trip. And so every faction that votes in favour of the budget of the country that stopped these articles cannot today claim to put conditions for improving the position of the Chernobylites. The law has not been amended, the Transitional Budget Regulations need to be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u21	Thank you. From "The Opposition Block," the word for the speech is given to Yuri Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u22	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It's about the bill. Well, obviously, the program's going on, it's going up by 3 billion. But there is another very interesting and dangerous change in our view: The current state program speaks of the completion of construction and the operation of one nuclear waste dump. It's suggested in these changes that you change not the "one" but the "repository" in the set. So we see this change in the danger of building a lot of shelters and turning this area not just into a Ukrainian grave, but into a European one. And this, in our view, does not solve the problem of Chernobyl’s AES, but can turn the Chernobyl area into a permanent danger for Ukraine and for the inhabitants of this region. And once again, I would like to point out that unfortunately, there is no good day, Andry Volodymyrovich, today, practically no bill that addresses the social problems of both the liquidators and the people who live in the areas affected by Chernobyl. That's why the Opposition Block stresses once again, we ask that we include in the agenda on Thursday and consider all the bills aimed at restoring the benefits of 14-15 years that have been cancelled. That's what people demand. Today, after the morning discussion and the strange debate that was in Parliament, many people called from Corostene, Emilchen, Orutsky, and said that they would not release officials, deputies, leaders, representatives of power to the black people, because it was a violation of the memory of those who laid down their lives, it was a violation of the heroic act and the feat of those who protected the country for their lives. On the day of memory, April 26, all will go to lay flowers without making any decisions to improve the lives of today’s liquidators, who are left with units, and to improve the lives of those now living in areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Instead, every day they take away all new and new benefits, sometimes limited by taxes, but they stop all social programs to support them both locally and centrally. That is why we demand that it be expressed in the same way by the cosmopolitans and the government. Here the deputy minister declined when we discussed issues aimed at the social protection of the Chernobylites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u23	Thank you. I understand you don't support this bill, do you? No, yes, of course. Colleagues, all factions, and groups took the floor. Now let's move on to the speeches from the national MPs. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. Please hold the recording. Anyone who wishes to speak and who intends to speak, please participate in the record. Please record. So I give the floor to the people's deputies of Mosiychuk Igor Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u24	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I would like to contact officials, officials who have no soul, who have a hard heart. If you arrive, the roads you built in the country will be repaired. Go to my family's Luben, to Zazur Mountain, near the Save-Foreshadowed Hungarian Monastery. There is an alley, an alley of memory of the Chernobylites, an alley of shores, and every shore in memory of the heroes who died died during the elimination of mankind’s greatest technological catastrophe — Chernobyl. Go, walk in the midst of these marshes, and think about what you are doing. Every year there are more and more. And the following week, dozens will be put back in memory of those who left this life last year. The years are passing. The fourth year of Azores' escape from the country, and you don't dare to repeal the law they passed that they took from the Chernobyls, those who saved not only Ukraine and the Ukrainians, but also the whole of Europe and the whole world from the technological disaster, took the benefits, took away the treatment, the opportunity to support children. The Chernobyl widows are already and the entire community organizations are the widows of the Chernobyl family, and you're looking at these people, and you don't realize that people are desperate. At the break, I got a call from Chernobyl's firemen, and they didn't just thank me for the support that, by the way, they're starving right now in the hands of the cosmopolitans, but they said they were ready to come to Parliament, like in the days of Azirov, and not to let any of those who have a hard heart become hardened, the one who spits at those who saved the country that saved the Ukrainians saved the world. Now you're talking, you're not here, you're here, you're 150, it shows your attitude towards the Ukrainians, you're talking to the black people. And one more thing, and most importantly. Today you refuse to protect the Chernobylites, and tomorrow, 10 years from now, you will also deny social protection to the heroes of today's national-liberal war. Surrender and be human!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u25	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to address all those who are now in the room and all those who are in the spheres of the Ukrainian Parliament. The bill is important enough because it depends on whether the fourth power plant in Chernobyl will be built and removed by 2020. The government program used to work, which was mentioned. the operational programme until 2017. Today, we need to approve the increase in expenditure in line with the Chernobyl AES decommissioning programme and increase the deadlines by 2020. Such problems have arisen in connection with the exchange rate of past periods, and today we need to correct them urgently because we have little and no time left. I want to turn to our colleagues who are now blocking the parliamentary rostrum and remind them that if they are in charge of protecting rights, freedoms, and the health of the Ukrainian population in the first place, we need to vote in favour of this bill with green buttons on our remotes. Because this bill depends on how much money we spend on health care in the future, if we don't take the Chernobyl nuclear power plant out of operation, and we don't put the Protection facility into operation, and we don't create an ecologically safe system. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u27	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u28	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm addressing you, and I want to tell you that now that I'm done, I'm going out and I'm going to be with you. And believe me, it's not me. Many deputies actually support you in this room and require a daily bill of 4442. And we need to make sure that on Thursday he actually shows up here in the session room. It is our moral obligation to those who in due time have performed a heroic feat. And absolutely everything that has been said today is just. We owe it to the niggers. And, dear fellows, we're talking about a bill that is part of a national or should be part of a national program. Programmes of an integrated, serious program that will take into account both the issue of social protection of citizens and the question of what future territories were affected. Today much is said to say that the station and all the objects that are in its territory -- the Hidden object -- the future objects of the disposal of radioactive waste are almost no longer a tourist zone. And tomorrow we're going to drive there, like in a wild beast, to show places where there was an explosion, where there was some kind of explosion, that means action. But it's actually getting a lot more serious. Because so far medical research has been carried out, and no one has yet proved the final result of the effects of even small doses of radiation on the health of present and future generations. Hence, medical programs and programs are vital to helping people who have suffered from clean foods today. And today, when it comes to feeding children, it is also a very important subject, and their health. So in fact, I call on everyone to support now the bill that relates to the subject "Hiddenness." The funds needed to support him in the right way are meant to be in his power, and they should be under close control. Because large sums have been allocated to the "Hidden" object itself and to those international programs that have been implemented. But today we need to support these programs, they are ecological, they are related to future security and state security, and all areas. So I urge everyone to support this bill by voting, including 4442 on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u29	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u30	Thank you very much. What I'm saying is that the "Fatherland" faction will support the bill on the State Program. "Hidden." But I would very much like the Head of the Supreme Council to give a mandate to the National Audit Service of the State, the Court of Auditors, to check all the costs over 26 years, to count the cost of creating this facility, and personally to the foreign aid, the foreign loans that were directed there. I want to remind you that it's a very important thing to control government funds, which, for example, has already been removed by the government manager since the "transhasu" audit. Secondly, I would like to remind all the heroic people's deputies who want to adopt new draft legislation to protect the Chernobyl population, not to destroy the benefits and preferences that have been accepted by colleagues before. I can tell you that all the Chernobyls won the European Court of Justice for violating their rights in the passage part of the Transitional Regulations budget of the Law on Cessation of Their Preferences, that's medical treatment, that's health protection. So, honourable national deputies, please look again at the register in the treasury, where all the Chernobylites and children of war, who won the European and Ukrainian courts to receive the funds, the violation by the State of the Constitution and the legislation, are in line. Today it is 350 years. And that's why I think it's going to be faithful and honest, if we do the laws that work, we're going to pay them back, and then we're going to be honest with future generations, and they're going to know that the state is always responsible for the trouble that it brings to its population. And the bill has to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u31	Thank you. This was the last speech by the deputies, and now there will be the final speeches by the reporter and the co-rapporteur. For the interview, I'm asking you to include a microphone in the government's bed for the minister of ecology. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, there is a proposal for a bill amending the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and for the conversion of the Protection Facility into an environmentally sound system developed by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The deadline for implementing the first-time measures for decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and for converting the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system planned for 2009-2012 under the Ukrainian National Programme of Exploitation Act ended in 2012. In order to take new measures from the operation of the Chernobyl station and to convert the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system, it is necessary to extend the duration of this state-wide programme and to complement it with new measures that are relevant today. First of all, it is the completion and implementation of the construction of a new secure confination that is being moved to the project site today, and that is the type of work that is being done. The second is to start building blocks Nos. 1, Nos. 2 and No. 3. Enter the stored nuclear fuel of a dry type into operation and start transporting sent-off fuel from a wet storage facility into a new one. Introduce a liquid radioactive waste treatment plant, an industrial complex of solid radioactive waste management, and start work on the treatment of radioactive wastes accumulated during the operation and after the accident at the Chernobyl station. At the Chernobyl AES site in 2018, it is planned to launch facilities that are being built at the expense of international technical assistance. This is a secure confinance and a nuclear fuel depot No. 2, which, including those facilities, should be financed by the Ukrainian side after being put into service in accordance with the commitments we made. The purpose of the bill is to approve a single document to identify activities from the operation of the Chernobyl station and to convert the shelter into an environmentally sound system and budget funding for this activity by 2020. Premarital reverends of memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u33	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u34	Thank you. Thank you. The day before the Memorial Day on April 26, I would ask you to support this bill and vote on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u35	Thank you. Welcome to the closing statement of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster by Fishman John. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Ivan Ribak, 202nd constituency, Cherniewec district. During the discussion of the bill, there were a number of questions, and what the bill includes is included in the National Programme. Appropriately, after decommissioning the Chernobyl nuclear power station and turning the "Hidden" object into an environmentally safe system. I'd like to quote exactly the basics of the bill. The refinement in the definition of the phase of decommissioning of CHEUS energy clouds from operation, namely in sequence: final closure, conservation, stamina, decommissioning. Clarification of fire protection measures for Chernobyl’s AES facilities at all stages of activity and removal from operation, settlement, and harmonization between themselves of the terminology of completion of construction, acceptance and entry into service. And our committee focused on all of these things. Dear colleagues, I ask you and remind you that this bill has been worked on by our committee with the government for about a year, and we need a positive decision today on this particular bill, namely the adoption of the first reading. Dear colleagues, let us do this work with you today and not postpone it again for another year. Because, unfortunately, very few of us in this Parliamentary Hall are dedicated to environmental issues, including the issue of Chernobyl itself and the issue of taking off the power grids of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and turning the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u37	Thank you. So the discussion is perfect, colleagues. I ask you to invite all the national deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, heads of factions, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I'm asking from the government's beds to come into the hall. And I would also like to inform you that the question that was raised by the Committee on Environmental Policy is this: this is a draft of the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (about the social protection of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster). If there's room will, after this bill, we can go straight to Social Bill 6656. On the Conciliation Council, all factions, I emphasize everyone without excluding the faction, expressed their support and, hopefully, we will be able to accept it. Now this bill, it refers directly to Chernobyl's AES and environmental issues. And so I'm very much asking everyone to take a responsible vote, take jobs. So, please take up jobs, get out of bed, we're moving on to making decisions. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES and on the Conversion of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System. This bill is being proposed on a basis, and I would suggest that maybe already on the basis of saying "Hidden" in one if there was such a warning from one of the factions. And I propose with such a warning. Committee, do you mind? Don't you mind if we don't have a "Hidden" set to be in one? The committee supports, I say this for the factions. And I'm asking you to support everyone on a base, and we can take everyone who has a warning into account for the second reading. It's a question of both ecology and the question of never again in Ukraine of a catastrophe like this. So let us be responsible for voting. And I urge everyone to support draft Law 6624 as a basis. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please vote. [[16:51:18]] For 218. 8 votes, please. I see the MPs are coming in. I'll be back in a minute. And I want to emphasize, I've announced under the transcript, where is Yuri Pavlenko, who is in one, not in the plural, but the "Secretation" will be in one, taking into account your faction's proposal. So let us unite and vote on the wording. The committee does not object, the committee supports. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. My colleagues, please, took into account the offer I made during the discussion. I very much ask everyone to take up their jobs and vote responsibly. Please come in and take your jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act on the introduction of the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hidden" object into an environmentally sound system (number 6624) for return, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Please vote all in agreement and responsibly. Please vote and please support. Vote. We support, colleagues, please support only on the ground. Please support everyone, we vote. Vote. [[16:52:56]] For 237 And I'm putting Bill 6624 on the ground. Please vote, please support, colleagues, in a coordinated and responsible manner, we vote on the basis. Please vote, please support [[16:53:24]] For 236 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the committee asked for a change in the sequence of laws and for the next draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (about the social protection of participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident). This bill is in the 6656 block of environmental policy. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. All the factions supported this bill. Please vote. [[16:54:16]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (for social protection of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident) (registration number 6656 from 27.06.2017) (represented by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Lithuania). The bill proposes to amend part one of article 14, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It is established that persons who have lived or worked continuously or have been trained in a territory that was assigned to the enhanced radiological control zone until January 1, 2015, provided that they have lived or worked or were permanently trained in the zone for at least four years and entered in Category IV, are also given a causal link that they have been disabled in connection with the Chernobyl disaster, and these persons should be given a certificate of the person who suffered from the Chernobyl disaster and the category. Many of the citizens who actually lived in the polluted areas are now sick and have a huge number of cancers, but they have already received the conclusion of a committee that is appropriate. that they really got their disease from radiation, but they don't have to get it again. cannot be granted the status of the victim in the first category because the Supreme Council has been removed. That's why this bill is still being proposed. The main scientific and expert office supports, the Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill can, influence the budget indicators, increase public spending and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u39	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u40	notes that the bill, i.e. increases the costs of state and local budgets and is to be put into effect, according to part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The Committee on Science and Education supports the bill. Prevention, anti-corruption: the bill is in line with the rules. There is a law in place in the hands of the cosmopolitans. The Committee on Environmental Policy also supports the bill and suggests that it be adopted as a basis. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u41	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u42	If. I would like to refer once again to the Radical Party representatives, please support the bill, because it really relates to the social protection of the people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Let's take our actions, that is, vote to confirm that we're worried about the problems of our neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill: two in favour, two in favour. And I'm asking for a quieter atmosphere in the hall. Because it was completely unheard of by fellow members of the national MPs. Please sign up. Yes, I'm sorry, please. From Peter Dustenk's Block, Sergey Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u44	Dear niggers! There is now an entirely point-to-point bill that has nothing to do with deep systemic and inclusive reform in this area of your social protection. I fully support the initiative and action of the Radical Party, although I often criticize them, in fighting for the rights of the Chernobylites. We have exactly a week, this important week, so that we can finally get the social emphasis in the country right. It doesn't matter how many people there are: 100, 200, 500, 1000 or 100,000. The state then, and the authorities then, when it cares for every citizen who is in trouble, all the more so if this citizen is shielded, his life was protected by the interests of life, the health of all Europe, the whole world. There's an extremely traditional novel in the draft bill, it's going to be voted in the first reading, there's absolutely no justification for it, and it's not going to be after the anniversary of the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear power station in the second reading to be considered by this Parliament in this room. We need to stop these manipulations, we need to take on systemic fundamental reform in this area. Our committee offered concrete ways to get money, and the niggers needed money. We don't need to. They don't need to talk to us. They need money, pensions, social protection. Let's increase taxation, raise the EU's surplus wages, from the million wages of Naftogazu, the Crossroads, heads of state enterprises, and give this money to ordinary Ukrainian people who risked their lives to protect the world from the Chernobyl plague. It's our debt, and we have to pay that debt to our Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u45	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u46	It is a pleasure that finally Parliament began to discuss the problems of the Chernobyl population. We've been doing this for a long time. Bill 4442, which returns State social security guarantees to Chernobyl, registered in Parliament more than a year ago. And all this time, our faction has been trying to get it to be considered in the hall. And he's been blocked all the time on the basis that there's no money, he said, to implement the "Social Protection of Chernobyl" Act takes 12 billion, and there's no money in Ukraine. There's a million wages for prosecutors and judges to pay for corruption in the oil and gas sector, for customs, for billions of smuggling, for road theft, for this money. There's no medicine, there's no Chernobyl, there's no education, there's no youth employment. It's a wrong policy. And the Radical Party team is blocking this rostrum to change this policy. We're proposing a very clear recovery plan for the Ukrainian economy, so that there's money for the Chernobyls, for the children, for the pensioners, for the underprivileged, for the youth, for the construction of roads, for the army, for the defence, for the security, for the diplomacy. To do this, we must stop getting married around the world. We need to stop trading raw materials and labor. Ukraine must become an innovative, modern, modern state. Industrialization, modernization, energy savings, new jobs for Ukrainians, people coming home from earnings, then there'll be money for black people, and for everyone. So we continue to block the rostrum so that laws can be passed in the interests of the Chernobyls.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u47	Please, Mrs. Natala Royal of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, in addition to depriving the Chernobylites of all mental and unimaginable compensations, you have abolished the fourth category of the Chernobylites, thereby depriving you of the rights of 1 million 600,000 people who have suffered. Now we're dealing with you right now by correcting the mistakes of government and coalition, because we're just wasting time on the issues that you've created yourself, the problems that you've created in this room. So the Opposition Block insists that we address in a comprehensive manner the protection, compensation and guarantees of the state for the people who have protected the entire world and our country in due course. We prepared five comprehensive drafts. And we're calling on the chairman to look at all the draft legislation on the protection of the Chernobyl issue in a comprehensive way on Thursday. For example, if the average Chernobyl pension in 2014 was $400, it was about $3,198, it was $140 at the beginning of 2018, it was $3,000,800. It's a middle pension. So people have gotten 3.5 times poorer because of your policy, not to mention how much drug prices have gone up, how much the prices of utilities have gone up. And the Chernobyls, the librarians, the ones who have lost their health, spend all this pension on medicine. So we insist that social pay and pension indexes be made and that we look at people's comprehensive protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u49	Thank you. Last performance, please, from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u50	The bill is a small step toward people who have suffered from the colonizer’s loss of health, property, and continue to lose it. We ask each other where to get the money? The money needs to be taken from the Attorney General's Office, the police state, the President's Administration (a billion dollars for what). Money needs to be taken from the operation of the Transfer Prices and Customs Act. And this money is given to people who are still suffering, and we turn away from it. The bill must be adopted only to show that the State needs to be trusted because it helps those who need it. The second reading should show the monetary mechanism and the mechanism for payment of these aids and certainly the sources of filling to come unreservedly from a state that becomes a police force.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I hope that all those who wish to speak out of this bill from the factions have had this opportunity. Also Mr. Shahov, national deputy of Shahov of the will of the people. Please, Mr. Shahov, give me your word. This is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, there are only 108 thousand people left with disabilities. When I was a child, I was 10 years old, coffins with people traveled from Chernobyl. It was Luhanskina who gave the best miners to save this tragedy. The whole world today should pay attention to that. And we have no right today, no right not to support the Chernobyls and children that we have told today that we are not feeding. We must support each of us. Look at the Customs, 220,000 tons goes to nuts, 100 million dollars to where they're lost. Today, mineral fertilizers are coming, and 550 million dollars lost the state that year. Is there no money? There's money. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Chernobyls. "The will of the people" is going to support the totality of the Chernobylites today who have lost their health and have lost their lives at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u53	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall. I ask the heads of factions to maximize national MPs. We're moving on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Colleagues in beds, return to the hall. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (as regards the social protection of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident) (number 6656) as a basis. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues, support the Chernobyls! Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:09:57]] For 255 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next draft law from the environmental policy box. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (6598). Anyone who supports its consideration under a reduced procedure, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:10:41]] For 135 There is no will to go into a reduced procedure. That's why we're following the full procedure. And we are now considering a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts 6598. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u54	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international treaties and directives of the European Union in the field of animal and plant protection) (registration number 6598) (since 10.11.2017), which was finalized by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting on 16 January 2018. The history of this bill. Let's say that a large number of environmentalists, zoologists, we decided to create a comprehensive bill that wouldn't look closely at the protection of animal cruelty, but to look at all these issues in the complex. Some three months of small work resulted in more than one working group meeting. Representatives of both zoologists and hunters, as well as others concerned, were involved in working groups. As a result, we created Bill 6598. What is proposed in this bill? The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Animal World Act. It is also suggested that changes be made to protect animals from cruel behavior, hunting, and hunting. It is also proposed to amend the Code on the Red Book of Ukraine and the National Police. In this bill, we have clearly foreseen the order of confiscation of animals that are brutally treated. In addition, it is clearly stated who is to remove these animals, how judicial action will take place, all of which are prescribed. And besides being introduced as new, it's possible to create a regional list of animals where hunting is prohibited. In addition, changes are being made, and we ban the use of bazookas at train stations. In addition, the law proposes to introduce, increase criminal responsibility, and reinstate administrative responsibility. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus speaks to the content of the draft remark. The general conclusion is that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee notes that the draft act does not reveal corruptive factors, and the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that if it adopts the relevant law, it can take effect according to legislation. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support the bill. The Supreme Council Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection (registration number 6598) (since 10.11.2017) which has been developed on the basis of the first reading. In addition, a large number of public organizations expressed their support for the bill. The four paws charity to support this bill in the European Union has collected over 100,000 signatures. I propose that the MPs support this bill, which is important to all zoologists. Let's, in addition to worrying about Chernobyl issues, pay attention to our smaller brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u55	Thank you. Three minutes to question the reporter. Please hold the recording. Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u56	Mr. Reporter, please tell me that you are confident that today and in these circumstances in the Council: blocking the rostrum, raising awareness of the issue of the social protection of the Chernobyl population -- should this bill be considered? Would you not ask your committee to postpone the consideration of draft laws that relate, in particular, to the subject raised, and we have continued to work together in Parliament for a law that I am really stressing, in reality, rather than on declarations and words to protect the interests of ordinary people who protected Ukrainians and the world from the Chernobyl plague? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u57	Dear Mr. Sergey, I understand how emotional this room is, but I want you to understand the position of the environmental committee. Sadly, this bill was not the first time in the order of the day, but once again it did not have a turn. And in general, all the bills, to my deep conviction, are very important, which go into the hall, but just some of our colleagues are making themselves, they're getting political dividends, and they're not voting for the ideals that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u58	Thank you. Fisherman Ivan Petrovich, please come to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u59	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, we will definitely all support Bill 4442 together as soon as it reaches the hall, and I hope that this bill in this room will be considered on Thursday and unanimously all of us will support. Because we are all on the defensive of people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, when we consider Bill 6598, we must also consider that environmental days are in our parliament. Environmental days are not so common. And that's why today the Conciliation Council, forming the agenda, introduced Bill 6598 to Parliament. This bill raises a number of questions that our Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament, today must answer. This issue of sanctions for cruel treatment of animals is a series of other problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u60	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u61	This is a series of other problems that are being raised, that are being brutally raised in the Ukrainian community, among environmentalists, among animal advocates of cruel treatment, of inhumane treatment of animals. So, dear fellows, I think the question of the reporter here is already superfluous, and it's very deeply addressed in the reporter's report. Let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u62	Thank you. And a final question. Kugel Alexander gives it to Ichchenkov. Turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u63	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we support, support, and support all those who have suffered directly from the Chernobyl disaster. But what I want to stress is that the responsibility for what is happening to the Chernobyl people today is all the factions that voted for the past budget and for this budget, because in part these benefits to the Chernobyls were abolished in the past budget and were partially transferred to the local self-government authorities. This year they're actually all canceled, including what's going on with these kids' feeding. So they actually have to take responsibility for the factions that voted for the budget. That's the first one. With regard to this bill, I would like to emphasise that the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code introduce increased administrative responsibility and provide for temporary removal of animals from the owner if the animal's life is at risk. That's a plus. Another plus, the changes in the Criminal Code are criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u64	Thank you. 30 seconds. I haven't given you 30 seconds yet. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u65	Criminal responsibility for the treatment of animals is increased, and it is only possible to be deprived of the will. For illegal hunting, more punishment is provided for fishing in the form of confiscation of hunting gear and all that is gained. I mean, a comprehensive bill, and we all have to be there, because if we fail, we're going to miss some pretty important innovations about protecting animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u66	Thank you. So the questions are done, we're going to talk from factions. Members of factions and groups, please record for the discussion. Please. From the Radical Party to the word Igor Mosiychuk is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u67	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction supports this bill. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of Parliament, the Ukrainian society, the present minister of ecology to what is happening in our environment, namely poaching, which the jegers themselves and the so-called fish inspectors encourage. For example, there is such a Sulin Nature Reserve in the territory of the Orgitsky and Seminal regions of the Poltava region. The director of this reserve, in charge of the task, was twice caught with an electric device during illegal fishing, and he is still working as an executive. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to pay particular attention to this. And I'm sure he's not alone. In general, to stop the destruction of Ukrainian nature, it is necessary to introduce criminal responsibility, criminally responsible for fishing, by means of electric wolves. Criminal responsibility for the shooting of red - skinned animals is required. Because we're looking at Facebook: We killed the rice, we killed the moose, we killed something else. They will soon kill everyone living in Ukraine. A particular question about the forest. We have forests mowing, especially in our Carpathians, like grass, mowing, cutting, and smuggling in the form of wood, into a moratorium that has been achieved by our faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lacha. They are exported abroad to make furniture from our forest, so that taxes can go abroad, so that workers can have jobs abroad, not in Ukraine. Therefore, in protecting our nature, our natural resources, we need to treat those who violate it more harshly — conservation legislation. And to be clear, it's popular that you need to plant bastards who kill fish with electro-waves, which are just a little bit extinct, and the icre becomes inappropriate to kill poachers. to plant poachers that kill red - colored animals. And those who reap like grass for their own good. To the criminal responsibility of the villains!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u68	The People's Front is National Deputy Stashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u69	I ask you to pass the word to Paul Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u70	Paul Dziblik gives the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u71	Thank you, Vitalia Stasuk, for your word. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to address all those present. Maybe we can stop blocking the rostrum for a little while, vote in favour of Bill 6598. You know, we talk a lot about humane treatment of children, about nature, here, and so, I think that when we put in a much greater responsibility for the cruel treatment of animals, we're still more humanizing our society and in the future it's going to be much more humane and the attitude not only to animals but also to the environment. So I'm going to call on everyone to back up the bill again. The People's Front fully supports the bill and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, from Rebirth Group, National MP Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! In fact, today, Ukraine is sadly paddling behind with regard to animal protection and nature in general. It's very bad that today we have a mass phenomenon like, for example, doghanters that are poisoning animals today. And it's a good thing that we're in this law that we're writing individual categories, which is what's meant by the abuse or murder of prohibited animals. So, of course, it's a very big problem, and it's a sign of a civilized society, when we protect animals, and even, I would say so, at the level of human beings. And that's normal. Look, any European countries that don't have homeless animals at all, because they're all, like they say, organized and very humane attitudes of society, and they're even taking them out of Ukraine, it's already happened. So, of course, we will support that. But I wanted to ask the Minister of Ecology, Mr. Semerak, to set up a working group to actually adopt state-owned programs on homeless animals, which would include a district level, and a local level, there are utilities, that is to say that today we have a real solution to the problem at state level. Because as much as we haven't changed legislation, we haven't strengthened it, there's still the problem of these animals, and they're multiplying, and we have to look for a national solution, a completely different humane approach, such as sterilizing animals, such as carrying out appropriate charitable actions, but that's all, building animal shelters, should be at state level and on conditions of co-financing with local authorities. So I would like to ask you very much to say before the vote, so that we can form a working group, involve international experts and raise this layer of problems. Thank you for your attention. And of course, the Rebirth Group will support this important bill for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u74	Thank you. Please, Sammenich's "self-help" will perform. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u75	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! This bill is not just about protecting animals, it is primarily about value, morality, and money. About money and millions of taxpayers ’ money spent today on barbaric programs to regulate the number of homeless animals. Homeless animals, on the one hand, suffer from so - called doghunters, but they suffer no less today than utilities, and the magnitude of the killings is quite impressive. Well, in particular, I want to give an example of my own Kharkiv, where thousands of dogs and cats were killed in 2016, which is about 90 percent. And at the same time, for the destruction of animals in eight years by Kharkiv's taxpayers, their spending is about 100 million dollars, and the trend shows that each year these costs continue to rise. And instead of introducing a humane method of regulating the number of homeless animals, sterilization, first of all, which has been proven effective by civilized countries, the communists continue to kill animals. Their goal is not only to reduce the number of animals but, above all, to receive budget funding annually and endlessly. And so without banning euthanasia itself, they will continue to kill at the expense of taxpayers. And this bloody practice clearly needs to be stopped immediately. The acceptable method of regulating the number of animals is biosterellising with further vaccination and cleavage. But there are good examples in our country that we should talk about. Today, the best situation for humane control of the number of homeless animals is due to the public’s situation in Lviv. This is the first animal adaptation center in Ukraine when homeless people are selected from the street, vaccinated, sterilized, and searched for new hosts. And it costs much today for tax payers in the city of Lviv, for example, eight times less than it costs the tax payers of Kharkiv. The humanization of society, a colleague, begins with a humane attitude toward animals. And experience proves that the limit between cruelty from individual animals to humans or to humans in general is very fragile. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the public activists, the public organizations, particularly Kharkiv, Kiev and many other cities, which have made the bill that we are considering possible today. The Self-Help Unit will support you in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u76	Please, People's Deputies of the Aresonks, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u77	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, it's an extremely important bill. And our faction, I'm sure, like everyone else, will support it, is to support the drafting of the bill, taking into account the comments that the President of Ukraine has made. And I want to remind you that the proposed changes significantly enhance the protection of animals from violence and cruel treatment. In particular, the definition of cruel conduct is written in this bill for the first time extremely wide and provides for the absence of sanctions against offenders, up to 500 untaxed minimum fines, the confiscation of an animal to protect it, and even administrative arrests for 15 days. Next. The provisions of the law offer definitive bans on the activities of train stations in Ukraine, where defenseless large animals, such as bears, bison, and others, are brutally killed for training with hunting dogs. There are bans and beggars with animals, the use of animals for the provision of photographic services. The cruel treatment of animals in the circus is minimized. In particular, no numbers are allowed using fire, and trainers will not be able to use tools like electroshockers. An important condition for dolphins, zoos, and circuses will be the introduction of one weekend so that animals can rest. It is also important to strengthen the protection of homeless and wild animals. And the only mechanism for managing numbers is biosterilization and cleavage, which means that there are no opportunities for sadists and hunters. I want to remind you that this is extremely important today for cities, both large and small, where a large number of homeless, homeless dogs are actually being used by utilities to date. I want to emphasize that, of course, our nation must join the cohorts of civilized countries in the world, where they respect and value living things. I've been very pleased to see, for example, that in the last few months, when there have been public nuisances around the Supreme Council and people have been representing different topics, starting with Chernobyl, different other public organizations, including a large number of those who have demanded the adoption of a bill that regulates the humane civilized treatment of animals. So, of course, I propose to support Bill 6598.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u78	Thank you for your position, dear colleague. And now the representative of the Opposition Block is invited to the floor by the People's Deputies. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block faction will support any legislative initiative aimed at protecting animals from ill-treatment, in particular by supporting the stated legislative initiative. But at the same time, I'd like to stop at those bills that we're currently considering on the issue of the protection of the black people. Very many blockers, very many people who are sympathetic to them, are approaching the rostrum. But the principle of work is noted by the Supreme Council: first, look at how many national deputies there are, in principle, few. Where's the coalition? Second, you create problems first, and then you find ways to solve major problems. If someone claims opposition, it is necessary to make a decision when voting for the state budget, not just for the state budget, because voting for the state budget is not only about the approval of the country’s financial assets, but also about depriving the population of the aid. Secondly, you don't need to support the pension reform that you're also depriving you of. There is no need to support medical reform when caring for the health of citizens. And here the aid was taken from the citizens -- and now they're tearing each other's shirts off and talking about how they love the Ukrainian people and how to get the money. And before we vote on the relevant laws, before we vote on human resources laws, we have to think about Ukrainian citizens. And with regard to the issue of Chernobyl, I would like to point out that voting for a bill to continue the state programme on the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the "Hidden" project into an environmentally sound system is actually you're signing up for the removal of the responsibility of valid authority for the inaction that took place for 3-4 years. What did you do during that time? What, though, did you take besides depriving them of the right benefits? What did you do to put into service a long-lasting subject called Hide? Nothing. And now you're telling each other how you're trying to block and by demanding other bills, to protect the interests of citizens. I don't think they see it all. Instead, we have in the dry leftover that: cancellation of the benefits, the absence of any clear state policy on the support of the Chernobyls. And somehow we want to smear it under the sauce of the continuation of the State's "Hiddening" program. Unfortunately, no bill aimed at raising social security, social protection for the Chernobyl population has been adopted, and we need to admit it, not to pry on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. And here's an invitation from Fatherland, a distinguished colleague, National Deputy Vadim Ivchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u81	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I must agree with those who speak of what we have done for three years. You know, "Fatherland" as an opposition faction -- I'm talking to the people of Ukraine -- we haven't voted in favour of the budget for three years. Three years in which the benefits were eliminated. For three years, some of the benefits were paid to local authorities. Three years in which funding for directly higher technical facilities was closed. Three years of adequate support for the agricultural sector were collected by the security forces, and taxes were collected from the village. All of this was budgeted. And now we're standing by the rostrum. And when we voted for the budget, what were we thinking? Fatherland didn't vote, I want to say it again. So today we also support those who talk about returning the benefits to the Chernobyl community and returning the benefits to those children who eat in schools, especially those who live in the Chernobyl area. It's about the bill. I have to say, he's thorough, he's right. Rather than simply intensifying these sanctions, the project prescribes in detail all kinds of such behavior that it makes it impossible to evade responsibility and is able to provide real protection to animals. It is important not only to protect homeless animals but also to protect domestic animals. Because we have such a thing that the owner or owner of this animal can do anything with it. The project involves not only the responsibility of the owner but also the possibility of taking the animal. It is right to increase criminal responsibility and to impose punishment solely in the form of deprivation of liberty. Because, you know, cruel treatment of animals has the highest level of social danger. This means that people who are inclined to do so can act violently. I mean, the definition of cruel behavior, the definition of disability, the bodily harm of an animal is expanding. Biosterilization, vaccination, and cleavage are predicted. Even farm animals are being raised. There is a ban on animal poisoning, and it is prohibited to leave the domestic animal unattended. Colleagues, by amending animal laws and amending animal laws to protect animals from cruel behavior and the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, we make maximum animal protection. And let's say we harmonise our legislation with the EU directives' positions and agreements in the field of animal and plant protection. We're very much asking you to settle down. We ask very much because there are not often such social laws or laws to protect animals in the session room. Consolidate, go out and vote to finally do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u82	You finished your speech. Dear colleagues, is there a need to speak from the national deputies of Ukraine? Yes. We specify from the Presidium: we follow the Rules. I'm asking you to sign up for the national deputies of Ukraine. We have nine minutes, nine minutes to discuss the bill with the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko, give me your word. Please. National Deputy Yvchenko, will you take the floor? You signed up, you're up first, you're up for it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! I want to say it again. You know, so we don't turn Parliament into a show, but really, we're responsible for every vote. "Paternality," as a faction, it always, before voting, study bills and study the position of certain types of population, including the socially unprotected. So we insist that I am directly responsible for the factions that voted for the budget. On those factions that took away the benefits, including the Chernobyls. On factions that deprived people of benefits, or transferred to local self - government, which gradually destroy the social component, from the budget to the budget. Therefore, we support all that is directly involved in supporting and restoring the protection of the Chernobylites and the children who eat, or the children who live in the Chernobyl area. At the same time, once again, I want to say that this bill is important. And I would like you and I to take away all the contradictions and vote for, in fact, what today harmonizes our legislation, so that we can once and for all make it impossible for owners to cynically do any harm to their animals, including in their homes. They have increased criminal responsibility and have taken direct action to ensure that the proper treatment of animals is civil and punished if it takes place. So "Paternity" supports these bills and asks everyone to go back to legislation, to go back to thinking about every bill, to be responsible for the vote, and, directly, to vote for what they need today, (a), people, and that they need those who really need our protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Yvchenko. And now the word is available for Oleg Lazka's speech for six minutes. Dear colleagues, 6 minutes Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team is now blocking the parliamentary rostrum to restore the functioning of the Chernobyl laws. I'm sorry that I'm not here today in the parliamentary rostrum with my esteemed colleague, Yulia Timoshenko, she's not in the parliamentary room at all today, she obviously has more important issues than the protection of the Chernobylites. Yes, there are colleagues shouting, I would love for Julia to answer the questions that I'm about to ask. I'd like us to protect the Chernobyls, but there's got to be money, money in the state budget. I wonder why I'm not in the Parliamentary Court of Julia Timoshenko right now, and I'll tell you why. This is the decision of the American Court of Justice of April 27, 2017 in the Timoshenko and Lazarenko case. Here is the U.S. court ruling of March 23, 2017 in the Timoshenko and Lazarenko case. Here is the U.S. court ruling of March 25, 2011, in the Timoshenko and Lazarenko case. Here is the ruling of the court of July 9, 2008 in the case of Timoshenko and Lazarenko. This is the original solution, and anyone can get to know them by going to the District Court site of Washington, U.S.A. Who doesn't speak English, I'll read you a translation of this decision by American courts. There's a suspicion that it's worth money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u86	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm being asked by the Fatherland faction to address the speaker as presiding officer. I'm asking the headmaster to turn it on. I beg you not to scream. Now, a moment like the presiding officer I am. Now, now. Honorable colleagues. Now, now. Dear colleagues, I'm listening very carefully to what you're talking about. You're talking about the money, the "Fatherland" faction tells me as chairman about the Rules, demanding a replica. I'm stressing the faction of Fatherland as the head of the faction that the faction was not mentioned, but a leader that is now missing. She was all day today. But at the same time, as chairman, I appeal to the speaker to follow the rules. We are now discussing, not the money law, but the Animal Law. And so, please, you're either speaking on the subject, or I'm going to have to give the floor to the National Deputy Anointed. People's Deputies of Amazanov. So please finish the talk. Dear Mr. Oleg, I ask you to return to the subject of the bill under discussion. We're discussing an animal bill. Then you will be able to speak on a subject that you feel is necessary during another talk. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u87	Ladies Vice-Speaker, we're talking about animals: animals that rob Ukrainians, animals that hundreds of millions of dollars overseas, taking them off to black people, retirees, young people, children, old people and young people; those animals that have destroyed the country, they've pledged them to poverty, to beggar millions of Ukrainians who make money abroad; those animals that, according to the 1996 American courts, have spent 250 million dollars on offshore Cypriot companies. If they're not animals, then tell me who they are. [[B in m in s a l in]] In 1996, 250 million dollars were exported to offshore areas, stolen from Ukrainians. These are real animals that rob Ukrainians of the future. And I'm talking to these animals that have taken hundreds of millions off-shore -- put them back in Ukraine -- and there'll be money for neighborhoods, roads, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, jobs for Ukrainians, armies and defenses. And stop being animals that take away futures from Ukrainians who don't see the future in Ukraine because of such animals, 55 percent of young people run abroad because they don't see the possibility of realizing themselves in their own country. Millions of pensioners, through these offshore animals, have spent their entire lives working to get a copy of their pensions. Millions of workers, peasants, budgeted for these animals, who spent hundreds of millions of dollars offshore in the year 96, should not pay in their own country. And through these animals they carry pots behind Europeans, for this is their only opportunity to feed their children and their families. And so I'm going to all of these animals that stole money, and this is set up by American courts, give up money, stop robbing Ukrainians, stop cheating on them, stop using Ukraine for their own wealth. Stop fooling people! When you take hundreds of millions out of the country, and you lie to people, here, Moscow Zoos, you come in as you care about them. The best protection for Ukrainians is to be honest, to restore the economy, to return the stolen money, to bring people back from abroad, not to exchange it. And so this is the pharisaic that we see today when we're told how they protect. Timishenko, come here, stand with me in the rostrum and protect the niggers together! Peter, come here, stand by the rostrum and protect the niggers together! And all those who claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u88	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone and remind me now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to remind my colleagues in the session room in general, maybe someone's tired after a long break, that we're discussing a bill concerning the implementation of part of the deal, (I see raised hands) Association agreements. This is the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection). And even in the animal and plant world, that is not how they treat one another. The election campaign hasn't started yet. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u89	Colleagues, discussion by national deputies is over. Now I'm going to make a closing statement to the committee representative. And, colleagues, after that, we'll move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Attention! I'm asking you to stop your emotions right now. There's an important bill. Now the closing word is Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich, 3 minutes. And I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Paul Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, you know, it's sad to see when many of the many activists and public organizations have joined this bill and are supported by foreign social organizations that support and protect animals, it's sad to see how this bill, well, let's say, we've done as always. There's a big request for the chairman to put it to a rating vote and maybe move the voting for this bill to four, because today we're just going to knock it down because there are no deputies in the room. Just, well, really, huge, tiny work, and let's say we just bury yoga now -- and that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u91	So I'm asking you to invite MPs into the hall because the deputies are supposed to be in the workplace. And that's why everyone has the ability, and they have the chance to invite MPs into the decision-making room. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. We're going to make a decision on this law. Colleagues, please, colleagues, we're moving to a vote. If I don't put the vote down now, we're going to have a very banal thing. Tomorrow morning we still won't have a vote, and that's why we can only get votes today. So you have a chance to call back, you have a chance to invite MPs into the hall so the bill can be voted on. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So, colleagues. So, colleagues, now I'm asking you to come into the hall. As I was informed by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, she promised to speak for one minute for Fatherland. If this was promised, it would be done. One minute, Sergey Sobolev. [[B in m in s a l in]] In one minute, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Dear Radio and Telephony! When this animal, who mentioned Hitler this morning, mentioned a person on whose conscience millions of corrupt lives were in concentration camps. When Ukrainians who were destroyed by Hitler’s regime are mentioned by this animal as an example for us to continue to do as he did, I think we have no more minute of doubt as to who could stand next to such an animal. I think it's clear to us today that at the very moment that we've taken the floor to clearly distort that information that was today called a court decision, I think the best example is when this animal is not released into the United States or into a civilized country. We don't have any more words.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u93	One minute, Irina Heratchenko. And let's go to the vote. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, you know, it's very difficult to be presiding at a meeting where colleagues sometimes, after all, the maximum validity of the presiding officer, behave worse sometimes than in the animal and plant world. I would like to ask the Ukrainian voters once again to apologize to all of us for demonstrating on this day not entirely parliamentary conduct and parliamentary language and to address colleagues, please let us vote on this important bill that is being discussed. Thank you very much. And I very much hope that even though the elections have not yet begun, we will treat each other with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m1.u95	So I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of the provisions of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (number 6598) on the basis of a committee proposal. And I ask everyone, despite the political disputes that have taken place here, to support this bill, which has been waited for a long time, and the committee that has offered to consider it today, and the public activists. Colleagues, let's work together and work together on a basis, we can make all the changes between the first and the second readings. I'm asking you to vote, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:58:37]] For 210 Obviously, not all were able to approach. Please come into the hall. Let's see the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 58, "National Front" – 52, "Resistance Block" – 17, "self-help" – 20, "Radical Party" – 13, "Fathership" – 7, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party "Resurrection" – 12. Colleagues, there's potential. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. All factions, I would stress, all without exception of factions support the bill. We just need to mobilize. I ask everyone to come to the hall and ask everyone to take their seats during the vote. Colleagues, take your jobs, please. Now I'm going to make an offer to go back to consideration. Don't leave the hall, boys. Don't leave the hall. It's a long work of committee and people. Let's support them. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the implementation of the provisions of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection). Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to agree on a return now. Girls, please. Fellow national deputies, take up jobs. Every voice matters now. Please vote and please support the return. I ask Ola and Ola to return to their seats and vote. Please vote and please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:00:26]] For 217 My colleagues, I'm going to set up again, but they didn't get a sense of direction, and I see some people holding back. Colleagues, come into the hall, take up jobs, stay out of the hall. Please. I'll put it back. It would be unfair if an important issue became just a hostage to our disputes. Please, factions heads, analyze, see who's not in the hall so everyone can take up their jobs. Please prepare for the vote. I'll make another return. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Now, don't go around the hall, take your jobs. So prepare for the vote. And I am voting once again to return to the consideration of draft Law 6598 on the implementation of the provisions of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection. And I'm asking you to vote, and I'm asking you to give everyone responsible support. Colleagues, carefully, every voice. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[18:01:52]] For 224 Two votes. Third time, I'll put it in. Two votes. I can see I didn't make it. And I'm asking you, colleagues, look who's not here. Do not go to the hall during the vote, take up jobs, prepare carefully for the vote. So, colleagues, right now we're going to make decisions, take jobs, I'm going to ask you again convincingly, take jobs. So, colleagues, everybody's taken jobs, everybody's in place. I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law (6598) on the implementation of the provisions of certain international agreements and EU directives. Colleagues, carefully, every voice, all over Ukraine, look at you, every voice has weight. I'm talking to our colleagues again. Vika, Maria, the cards in place? Yes. Then we vote, colleagues, for our return to 6598. Please vote and please support, we vote. Colleagues, carefully every voice, please support. Vote, Mikhail, support, vote, please support. Mr. Logwinsky, we count each voice. [[18:03:27]] For 225 Colleagues, one vote, I'll put it again. Colleagues, Ira, please return to your seat. So, colleagues, please, one vote, one vote! I'm asking you to mobilize. Zhenya, seventh, please support. Please vote back to 6598. Every vote, we lacked one vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:04:19]] For 216 212. I'm making a proposal to the committee for processing. I'm going to make the following suggestion to the committee for further work. Colleagues, there are voices in the room, please, 30 seconds left. I'm proposing draft Law 6598 to the committee for a re-first reading. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. [[18:04:57]] For 222 Next: the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Let's not lose the bill. Colleagues, final vote, please support. Colleagues, this is the Association Agreement, I'm asking you to support, don't step out of the hall, 10 seconds, the last proposal for the Rules. Draft Law 6598, the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support, or it will be rejected. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! Please be supportive. [[18:05:40]] For 229 The decision is taken that Law 6598 is directed to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. So, colleagues, we've considered most of the laws of the environmental block. Sadly, not all of them found support in the hall. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At the same time, I ask the heads of factions to come to me to sign a decree on the appeal of the Universal Patriarch to the Ukrainian Mass Orthodox Church. Heads of factions who want to sign this address, please come forward now, and we can sign it. Thank you. The evening meeting is over. Thank you.
