ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. So, are the colleagues ready to register? People's deputies please register. Please turn on the registration. [[10:05:03]] 362 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Viktor Vasilovich Chumak. Welcome to Victor's birthday, welcome! [[Applause]] Colleagues, yesterday, the Moscow City Court sentenced a journalist, its own correspondent, Roman Suschenka, to 12 years of strict rule colony. On behalf of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, I claim that Ukraine never recognizes this sentence. We condemn this court and this pseudopath. The Russian Federation is now acting as an international terrorist. At the order of criminal Putin, Russian security forces are seizing our citizens and thus attempting to blackmail Ukraine. I call upon our allies, all the countries of the free world and international organizations to condemn the pseudonyms for journalist Roman Sąszczenko and to demand the release of all Ukrainian citizens, political prisoners of Russia, from Russia. I also warn Ukrainians against travelling to the Russian Republic because there is a real danger of being captured by Russian intelligence. Don't increase the toll stock, don't go to Russia, today it's a real danger to all Ukrainian citizens. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that we are continuing our consideration of the draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court today. This is question number one for the Ukrainian state today, and there is a great attention of the whole society to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I urge all the factions, all the deputies to participate as actively as possible in the discussion so that we can finally find those compromise proposals that can be supported by the hall. We have recommendations from the Venice Commission, like all other laws relating to judicial reform. And we have to count the position of all factions. And I believe I believe that this week we will be able to make a positive decision and create a Higher Anti-Corruption Court, which will be an act of justice for all Ukrainian citizens. So I encourage everyone to work productively, and I remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to perform from factions and groups. And I'm asking representatives of all factions and groups to prepare for recording by factions and groups. You're ready, aren't you? Please record. Please sign up for the performances. From the Rebirth Party to the word, Bondar Victor Vasilovich is invited. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I think that in many, recent especially months, Ukrainian citizens are causing both sadness and look at the events and relations that are now reigning in the Ukrainian system of power. I think everyone's tired of these constant blackmails, the ultimatums of each other's ministers, the Prime Minister, the President's representatives, and so on, the leaders of the predominant factions in Parliament. And I think the whole country already understands that for the sake of credit, this authority is ready to go for anything. The last ultimatums for the anti-corruption court are just the beginning. The main thing will be a little later when we get our hands twisted to raise the population's tariffs again, when they're twisting their hands for credits to raise and implement through the Council the Land Sales Act in Ukraine and much more. In recent times for loans, we've seen how we've been downgrading the national currency, how we've closed down hundreds of banks that have essentially robbed more than a million investors of their investments in Ukrainian banks, and in fact, they've done so that people have become poor, and the last ones have lost in these banking institutions. We have spoken, and on more than one occasion we have asked that this issue should be solved and decided on how to return money to people, how to make it possible for them to recover their funds that they had entrusted to the State and to the Ukrainian banks. We talk about the fact that today the population is poor. Only debt for utilities, gas, and electricity amount to more than 42 billion dollars. Where does this machine go next? The last statistic I picked up today in the Ukrainian economy is debt statistics on wages: 2.5 billion dollars -- debt on wages today in Ukraine's economic sector. Debt growth took place in the first quarter alone by almost 38 percent, by 700 billion dollars. This debt is essentially on economically active enterprises. When we looked at the analysis, 80 percent of the industrial debt in the businesses that work. What are you planning to do? You've essentially collapsed in the economy, built a virtual economy, and for the sake of credit, you're willing to continue to destroy industry, and you never want to hear us say what we're talking about. What needs to come first is the issue of the Ukrainian recovery of the economy. We've already reached the point where there's no money to pay the workers. And, for example, the MoneyBlanker, 2,000 people are already freeing themselves. And this situation is all over Ukraine. We suggest that we accept anyone's bill. You have changed the rules of accounting for the users. Today, money by the skyscrapers goes straight to the state energy company. People don't get paid. We're demanding. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u3	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u4	We're demanding that Bill 7390, which will allow for the cost, first of all, of the money that will be paid to finance the wages of the employees of the skyscrapers in Ukraine. Otherwise you will stop the energy of Ukraine. Listen to what we're saying. On more than one occasion, our proposals come true, and you correct your mistakes, but six months later, a year later. It can't go on like this. Economics, industry, transportation, construction must come to the fore, and then normal life will begin in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Wilkul is invited by the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u6	The people of Ukraine, respected colleagues, are confident that most citizens and deputies have seen the expression of Uljana Suprun as a substitute for ill - treated by the state abroad. If someone missed those words from Mr. Lynchowski, I'll remind you of that phrase. "It's cancer. They're all gonna die. They'll all die without options. And the effectiveness of this program is zero." Linchevski is a member of the Uljana Suprun team, which for more than two years has been adhering to slogans, medical reform, actually cynically bullying people and experimenting. In particular, Suprun and its herds have already claimed that the State will soon cease to meet its social obligations to the sick with the most severe diseases, such as cancer. They no longer hide that they are going to destroy even a small number of programs for the treatment of cancer patients. I haven't had any questions for a long time before Uljana Suprun, everything is clear with her. There are no questions asked by members of her cynical team, such as Mr. Linchevsky, who wants to shorten medical programs by denouncing people to death. However, I have a number of questions to ask the national MPs, especially those who block the voting in this room for the resignation of the current Ministry of Health. Every time you vote for their reforms, you put your own signature under Lynchovsky's word. The Supreme Council has the opportunity in one minute to stop the abuse of citizens by resigning Suprun, but the majority of the MPs do not. I demand that my draft decree on the release of this "Doctor-Death" that I and my colleague Igor Shurma and I have registered on January 17, 2017. How many more children’s deaths and diseases, epidemics, and similar comments by ILO officials are needed to fulfill your obligation to humans? The destruction of the health - care system and of humans must be halted. So I urge Parliament to immediately appeal to the government to release not only Suprun but also her deputy, Alexander Linchevsky. We need to improve the quality of medical care, especially through the introduction of insurance at the expense of the employer. At the same time, the State must provide insurance for budgeters, pensioners, disabled persons, and children. And "Doctor of Death" has to be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u7	From the "will of the people" group to the word, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u8	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is a disgrace and a betrayal of the Ukrainians. How many people can be beheaded by this anticorruption government? Why is it so feared by those who have passed 2,000 rights? Why do they not want to make that decision? "Our country" requires an immediate decision on the anti-corruption court and a vote in favour. Secondly, "Our Land" requires an immediate report from the government, which has completely failed all reforms: pension, education, medical, decentralization and monetaryization. After the government's report, immediately rebooting the foreign ministers, we need Ukrainian ministers to work for Ukraine, for Ukrainians, and to cut them alive, like surgeons, to completely destroy the oligarchic tentacles and remove them from Ukrainian monopolies, and bring them back to the state. "Our country" requires even more than an anti-corruption court to make the anti-corruption government necessary for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u9	Thank you. The head of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk, is invited to the floor. Please. Yegor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor, not the head of the faction, but the representative of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u10	I want to contact the National Deputies with information that when some of the people in this room are invited to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, there are MPs who are showing the press with their votes for the creation of an anti-corruption office. I would like to urge all the national MPs to vote in the next two days in order to then show the press for their vote in favour of an anti-corruption court. This is a very important decision, without which no one can get out of this Parliament with his head raised. This is a very important decision that will be followed by so many people. I was in sum yesterday. At any meeting, they ask, will you create an anti-corruption court? Do not listen to people who speak of sovereignty. Sovereignty for What? The Sovereignty of Stealing? Sovereignty of the Right to Lie to Your People? Sovereignty of the right to sell national interests when a country is fighting for independence? The idea of inviting international experts to elect anti-corruption judges is ours. We saw that Joanie Kessler, Mary Butler, and others invited by us by real prosecutors, did very well in the election of the director of the anti-corruption office and the anti-corruption prosecutor. And there's nothing wrong with asking our international partners to help us choose anti-corruption judges, as we ask them to help us in the war, as we ask them to help us with our finances, as we ask them to help us with technology. Once again, every deputy in the voting for the anti-corruption court bill will be watched by a great many people. I urge all my colleagues to make a choice that will not be ashamed of decades later. The real anticorruption court should be our pride. We're old enough to tell people that we created it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u11	Thank you for the talk. Please welcome Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u12	Woe to that country where deputies speak with contempt of sovereignty, of the independence of the country, of its independence. For sovereignty, for independence, for independence, the best. Our best sons give their lives. If it's empty stuff for you and you're willing to sell it for IMF supplies, it's not a blank sound for us. Instead of the turmoil, instead of the chaos, the anarchy of today's power, me and my team, we're offering a country to rebuild, rebuild, a new economic course: modernizing the economy and a completely new radical increase in the well-being of Ukrainians; at least $100 billion in investment in the real economy; 2 million jobs for Ukrainians in Ukraine, not on a rostrum in Poland; an increase in real citizens' incomes, stable prices, tariffs and currency exchange; and Ukraine's high international authority. On what account? The transformation of the economy from the raw-bond to the manufacturing-innovation economy, a radical change in the economic model of the country, a phase shift instead of the slow drift of the so-called evolutionary reforms demonstrated by the authorities, will allow for accelerated economic development of Ukraine, at least, 8-10 per cent per year. Through development, infrastructure, self-production, innovation, barrier removal, and the creation of advantages for domestic producers, tax and customs preferences, government guarantees, discounted loans, incentive tariffs, and clear rules for the development of a new Ukrainian economy, the social fair distribution of economic pies. It's society that wins, not a bunch of chosen oligarchs. A successful economy is, above all, a social project. Economics should not only be highly productive and efficient but also socially equitable. Instead of the outside points of the resistance, instead of the IMF drug needle and other so-called creditor friends, we offer 45 million points of resistance inside the country. Ukrainians, their own citizens are to be shareholders of Ukraine, beneficiaries and main promoters of the new economic course. I call on Parliament, the parliamentary majority, the President, the government and power in general not to listen to what you are told, but to do what developed countries do for themselves for the sake of their own citizens, for the sake of sovereignty, for their own country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u13	Please welcome the head of the Peter Dusty Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u14	Madam President, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, by the end of the week Parliament must complete its review of the rights and form the final edition of the bill initiated by the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. At this stage, this is the responsibility of every national MP. The current additions to the bill take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The position of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko remains firm: we need to create an active body to overcome corruption that will function within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. I remind you that the President of Ukraine is the author of the anti-corruption court bill, and it is the head of the state who is at the forefront of the anti-corruption fight, no matter how much anyone wants to prove otherwise. Yesterday, the whole world was once again witnessing human rights abuses in the Russian Federation. Ukrainian journalist Romano Sushchenk was sentenced to 12 years of strict rule. We strongly condemn this. When journalists are rescued in Ukraine, they are imprisoned in Russia. Ukrainian prisoners were forced to choose the only way to tell the world that the Putin regime is an exact copy of the steel repressive system. Alexander Kolchenko, Vladimir Baluch, Alexander Shumkov, has been hungry for more than twenty days. We are obliged, colleagues, to do our utmost to have Ukrainian political prisoners released from Russian prisons and returned home. We will also demand that the Ukrainians in Russian prisons be allowed representatives of the Red Cross and the Ukrainian Ombudsman. As far as the agenda is concerned. Our duty is to maximize Ukrainian diplomats on the international front against Russian aggression. That is why it is necessary to take into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine as soon as possible and to submit to Parliament a bill on diplomatic service. I recall that the reform of the service will provide additional mechanisms for domestic diplomats to carry out their professional activities under better world standards. In order to implement comprehensive reform, Parliament must also consider Bill 7323 on the transport of diplomats abroad. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko also expects that this week we will eventually include in the agenda such an important presidential initiative as Bill 8265 on improving the procurement procedure of ProZorro. Our faction also points to the need for a solution to human resources issues. We finally have to update the CBC warehouse. We have to appoint judges to the Constitutional Court. Also, given that it's already mid-2018, you can no longer delay the appointment of an NAB auditor for testing 2016, I emphasize 2016. And to the end. I cannot help but recall Mr. Linchevsky, deputy minister of health,’s recent statement on the treatment of cancer patients. Yesterday at our faction meeting, all MPs without exception were indignant at this statement. We are confident that there will be a service investigation and appropriate conclusions that will give us the answer to only one question. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u16	We have to answer only one question, can a person in a similar position effectively defend patients' rights in the department of profile, especially as a deputy minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Julia Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland faction, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u18	Good afternoon! I just want to draw the attention of everyone who is watching and listening to the Supreme Council, that factions leaders are now speaking out of this rostrum with very pressing issues that need to be addressed to the country. But the rostrum is practically empty, there's no speaker, there's no first speaker, there's not about two thirds in the audience. Irina Heratschenko sits alone, and we talk about such tense things from the rostrum. But I don't understand how we're reacting to what we're doing or how the country is governed today. And why are these speeches from the rostrum if there is no reaction to any performance. And I want to make it clear that our team will vote in favour of anti-corruption law. We also supported the establishment of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, some other agencies. But I want to ask you, how do they work today? I've already got two reports in my hands, please look at the purchase of the state-owned medicine. Two reports. One report says that as a country, we are overpaid for government medicine. The full amount of money, for example, is 5 billion, 6 billion dollars. And 20 months after that, we don't have a drug supply! Think about it! We have been paid today, and for almost two years we do not receive any pills or medicines! Tell me, who invented this?Oh, my God! Tell me, why not respond to the report of the Court of Auditors when 400 million dollars have been purchased and simply destroyed because the expiration date has been completed? And why are we being supplied with low-quality drugs today, with deadlines and 20 months after subscription? No reaction from any anticorruption body! Now here's the next report you just received. This is the second report of the Court of Auditors. Tell me, who has the right to remove all state control over the quality of the drugs that come to Ukraine? And now drugs for clinical trials are coming to Ukraine. Why don't Ukrainians know about this?Oh, my God! And why does someone put quality clinical experiments above us without our knowledge? Are we actually the third country of the world? And everyone doesn't care what happens. I have in my hands a letter from the National Anti-Corruption Agency. I'm just asking why there's no answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u19	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u20	And all of this was completed by a public statement by the deputy minister of health that oncohols, in principle, would die and not need to be treated. I now demand that the Supreme Council hear reports from the Minister of Health and NAB regarding the entire situation that is taking place with the destruction of the health and life of people in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u21	Thank you for the timely presentation, Reverend Julia Volodymyrical. The only thing I'm going to say is that I'm two in one: Irina Heraszczenko and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, after all. I am, I am, and I am here. Please come to the floor. There is also the deputy head of the Supreme Council, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, who also listened. Please welcome the head of the People's Front faction Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u22	Congratulations, colleagues. Here many of my colleagues have pointed to painful issues for our nation, but I think we should focus this week on taking the most responsible step. The People's Front faction stands for the adoption of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act as soon as possible. We believe that the issue of creating an anti-corruption court is a matter of the economic and political stability of our state. And this is a requirement that has long been put forward by our partners and that Ukraine has agreed to by gradually implementing anti-corruption reforms. Recall what has been done in the last four years from the anticorruption reform package. We have created with you: NAMK; NABU; ProZorro, which significantly saves the use of budget funds during purchases; introduced electronic declaration of assets by officials and people's deputies; amended the Constitution for the modernization of the judiciary; formed a new Supreme Court; simplified the procedures; introduced legislation on ProZorro and public privatization; reduced the only social contribution that served to get the wages out of the shadow paid in envelopes; deregulation of business. An important point of this package of reforms in the fight against corruption is the adoption of the Law on the Establishment of a High Anti-Corruption Court. Once again, this is a matter of economic and political stability in the state. The Anti-Corruption Court is a long-standing and universal requirement of the International Monetary Fund. Without further cooperation with the IMF and access to other sources of credit associated with this program, the country will have an economic collapse. In order to protect the country from defult, as Prime Minister Arsenij Yatsenuk did in 2014-2015, it is necessary to continue the reform course of the Yatsenuk government. There is no alternative to this course and there is no alternative. Today Parliament must save the situation, we must create an anti-corruption court. The People's Front faction, I emphasize, will vote in favour of the bill in the second reading, as it supported it by a majority vote in the first. So we ask all colleagues this week to support the bill and take another decisive step in the fight against corruption. We also insist that the amended bill should take into account the recommendations of our international partners. To discipline the process, let's allow the profile committee to successfully conclude consultations with international partners and prepare a harmonized document for final vote. We will do our duty, the People's Front will vote in favour of such a bill, and we will take another unprecedented step -- we will create a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So we're actively working on this bill because that's what our country's all about. Anti-corruption reform needs not someone from abroad, it needs Ukraine first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's Deputies, distinguished factions leaders, I think we've exhausted the entire list of performances here, and we're moving into the order of the day. As you know, today we have an important continuation of the anti-corruption court bill. Last week we discussed over 1,200 amendments with you, and there is still a little bit more – more than 700 amendments. And that's exactly what we're going to do today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u24	So, colleagues, I remind you that we stopped at Amendment 1274 last week. We had a faster review of the rights last week because not all of the authors were in the hall. So now you all have comparative tables, you all have tables of the rights, and we're going to give the word in the same sequence. At one point, we're not going to go back to the lines that passed. And now we're starting at 1274. And I give the floor to the author of Roman Semensi. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u25	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, our rights apply to the powers of the Public Council of International Experts. And that's what we're proposing to take into account the next mechanism. If the Public Council, in its reasoned conclusion, finds that a candidate for the post of High Court of Anticorruption does not meet the defined criteria, the Commission shall rule on the failure of that candidate to exercise justice before the Supreme Anticorruption Court. Such a candidate, in our opinion, stops participating in the competition and cannot be appointed to the post of Judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. We are convinced that this is a qualitatively different concept for the participation of members of the Public Council of International Experts, which will allow the necessary selection of good candidates that will restore justice in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u26	Mr. Ruslan, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u27	I thank Mr. Roman for his position. In fact, we do not object to such a theoretical approach on the committee. We've simply rejected this amendment, given that among those rights that have been referred to the Supreme Council and that the committee has not been identified, there is a similar approach, and once again the point of writing it in other parts is that we don't have to, because it's clear. In that case, if another mechanism is written, we will determine how it will work. If you push away from what was voted on in the first reading, logic is simple. If the Council of International Experts decides not to comply with the requirements of the candidate concerned, the SCCC may decide for two thirds that it continues to do so. If he doesn't make that decision and at least doesn't get enough votes, tries to do it, we've had that practice, then this candidate is automatically denied the opportunity to continue the competition. That is, the need to re-write the mechanism, which will be after the decision is not made, according to the committee, is simply inappropriate, although the idea is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u28	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm going to put it to a vote. But, Mr. Roman, before that, I'm going to tell you and everyone in the room that the main panel of the debate that remains in the High Anti-Corruption Court is actually the mandate of the Public Council of International Experts. And now there's a consultation, including in the conference room, about how to ensure the decisive impact of the Public Council of International Experts. I think as a result of our discussion, we're going to have to find some compromise between the authors of all the rights: both the ones you filed, and the ones you filed, the People's Front, and those who submitted the BPT, and passed the Fatherland. Because in fact, if we don't find the agreed position, it's going to be hard to find 226 for the law itself. I believe, and I believe, that we will find a solution where the public council will be decisive. But today we will also be able to discuss the format in which the decision-making process is to take place and the decisive importance of the Public Council of International Experts. Now I'm voting on amendment 1274 of Semimenah's authorship. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[10:39:04]] For-55 The decision is not made. Next, 1275. Please, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u29	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Of course, it's hard to disagree, it's absolutely clear that the quintension of the whole law is actually a real mandate of the Public Council of International Experts. So the next "self-help" amendment refers to this. We're convinced that competitive selection, and that's how we have to make it to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, should be clear and final. The Self-Help Amendment proposes to ban the rulings and conclusions of the Public Council of International Experts on the appropriateness or inadequacy of candidates for the post of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in court. From the very beginning of the discussion of the concept of the future Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the Venice Commission recommended that independent international experts be given a decisive, I stress, decisive role in the selection process, our amendment at the same time aimed at warning the deliberate delay in the process of judicial formation, as this can be used. And it also guarantees the finality, the finality, I stress, of the conclusions of the Public Council of International Experts regarding the candidates, which will give the opportunity to form a qualitatively new composition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u30	Please finish? 30 seconds, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u31	We are confident that this process will give us a chance, not necessarily a guarantee, but it may be the only chance that the selection of judges will take place in a virtuous manner and that those who are willing to be independent and do justice will come to that court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u32	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u33	Mr. Romane, this committee has come from the fact that the possibility of denying the decision of the CCCC from the constitutional point of view is that any decision, action or omission of the public authorities may be brought before the courts is questionable from the point of view of the Constitution. But I have to tell you, in fact, in the case of the Supreme Court competition, we have a lot to say about the fact that the VCC overcame the veto. They overcame the veto in just 20 cases, and in 140 they agreed to the decision of the DG, imagine. And then those 140 candidates challenged the decision of the CCW in court, and all the decisions were upheld. I mean, I don't see such a problem. I mean, theoretically there may be such a threat, but so far we have no reason to talk. Here, definitely, the courts took sides with the VCC in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u34	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 1275 people's deputies of Semimenha, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:42:07]] For-54 The decision is not made. I'll just fill in Mr. Ruslan. Roman, why are you looking for the format of the common panel? So that the body, which is Ukrainian, is crucial. And so one of the compromises that we're looking for is a common panel where there should be a decisive number of votes of the International Public Council, but it will provide us with and make lawsuits impossible. If this joint panel provides a sufficient number of members of the International Public Council, it may actually be a compromise as one option to ensure that the public council is decisive, but also to ensure that the vote and the value of the judges of the qualifying commission. And it's going to be more constitutional, and there's going to be fewer possibilities for lawsuits, and there's going to be fewer possibilities for that to be a charge. I stress that this is one option that we will discuss together before the final vote. Next up, 1276. Don't insist. 1277. Don't insist. 1279. Don't insist on Helen. 1280. Here is a group of authors: Chumak, Novak, Devyanko, Novak, Dobrodomov Don't insist. 1281st, Sugonyako. Don't insist. Now. Yeah, 1280. Please, Igor Lapin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, my amendment is more technical. I still think that the negative conclusion of the Public Council of International Experts is approving rather than making a decision. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u36	I'm sorry, Ruslan, it's just 1282. If we have different tables, please come to me and I'll give you a new table. Mr. Ruslan, we're talking 1282. Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u37	Thank you. This is about how many votes are to be made. This amendment was relevant when the edition of the first reading was considered, since there were other different approaches to the different decisions of the Public Council of International Experts. All organizational decisions were supposed to be made on condition of most of their composition. The decision on the candidates’ inadequacy with the requirements of the law was to be made by two thirds of their composition. Now we've moved on to the idea that everyone, without exception, takes a majority of the votes. So out of 7 terms as a minimum, 4 should be devoted. Members' votes should be given in favour of a decision. So the committee did not support this amendment, because it supported another amendment that fundamentally changes the logic of action in the Public Council of International Experts and the way it makes decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u38	So I'm going to vote 1282. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:45:40]] For-63 The decision is not made. I'm going to all the right-wing authors. It is said that these comparative tables on the tables were cleaned during the weekends. Who needs a comparative table, give a signal, I'll give an order to the apparatus. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, okay. One copy is enough for you. Yes, then, Mr. Mikhailo, I ask the apparatus, carefully, one copy. Mr. Mikhaillo, I'm with you! One copy. Two copies. Lapin. Then the Radical Party and Sergey Vlasenko. We need to print five new copies, as a minimum, and distribute them to the national deputies. And one of them is Self-Help. 1279. Please, Olena Sotnik. Turn on the microphone. And another is the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, very sorry that, unfortunately, we will not be able to go back to the amendments that, because some deputies were on official business, somehow decided that we had no right to sound. Perhaps the quality of this law does not matter to this Parliament, including the fact that there are almost no people in the room today. But nevertheless, I would urge the committee to discuss properly and qualitatively the amendments that we are talking about, and to discuss them not in the right-wing mode, but in the right-wing mode, but still to invent an effective model. Because right now we're dealing with a situation where, in fact, that bill and the paper that's being proposed, it's not going to give us the opportunity to create a real independent institution. So I do propose to Mr. Knyazevitch that we make a committee and work on the amendments tomorrow, not the proponents in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u40	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u41	I have a lot of respect for Mrs. Helen. I think she has no reason to blame the committee, because the committee worked, and last week I tried to give as full an answer as possible to all the questions that sounded at the committee's address, and there were no such warnings in the hall. If you have such warnings, I am ready with you either personally or, if necessary, we invite you to the committee tomorrow. We will kindly refer to topics that you consider appropriate to raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u42	Personally. I'll bet. To explain. We had a meeting almost every week last week. Not all were present last plenary week, not all had the opportunity to participate in meetings, yes. On Wednesday, however, the committee will meet, and the committee will find a common agreed solution. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So the next 1279. Mrs. Olena, it's yours again. No, that's 79th. 83rd. 82nd was Lapina. 1283, this is Nyema. None. 1284. 1285. A thousand two hundred. What's that? 85th. Please turn on the Yuskov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u43	The table shows that the bill is edited, but I ask that it be submitted for confirmation, given that it has changed the decision-making system of the Public Council of International Experts. That is, there is now quite a second part of the council mentioned to reach a negative conclusion about the judge. I propose to Parliament not to support such a decision by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u44	Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Auntie. We basically had this discussion last week, and we're doing it again. Since we already have some of the rights that apply to this position that are not confirmed, I understand that there is a logic to continue putting them on the line. We came out to unify approaches to decision-making by the Public Council of International Experts to prevent them from making different decisions by a variety of qualified majority: some simple majority, some two-thirds majority, about three-quarters majority. In order for this to not be the case, the approach, according to the committee, must be unified. But let the session room be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u46	So I'm betting on confirmation of 1285. The committee considered it editorially and the committee asked her to support it. Support 1285. So let me vote. And who supports the position of the committee, please support. Please vote. [[10:51:02]] For-89 The decision is not made. So let's move on. 1286. The author does not insist. 1287th, Ednak. Please, Mr. Ostap. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the amendment of the team of authors: One, Wessel, Levus, Medunice, Highland, and Hopko. In fact, in article 9 of the bill, part 12 reads: "The Civil Council of International Experts decides to rule on the inadequacy of a candidate for a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court judge to the criteria set out in part four of article 8 of this Act, by a majority of the members of the Civil Council determined in accordance with this law." In fact, our amendment is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and will ensure that the Council of International Experts has a significant impact on the competition for the appointment of independent judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. So I'd like a colleague of the national MPs to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u48	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u49	Well, I can only say that it's a pity that there's no such thing as an item and an opportunity, as it's taken into account essentially, because your amendment is essentially accounted for. We predicted in general that everyone would make a decision without exception by a majority. So given these reasons, well, I think so. In the Committee’s view, it makes no sense to reinterpret a special conclusion, a special decision, among others, as it is made when everyone is taking the same action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u50	Mr. Ostap, do you insist on voting? You insist, don't you? Okay. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 1287th group of authors. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:53:13]] For-67 The decision is not taken. But it was actually included in other revisions. 1288th, Yemen. Don't insist. 1289. Please, dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u51	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, I am actually convinced that this plenary week, and in general the results of the vote for the draft of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act, will become decisive in the state-building and in the fight against corruption in particular. In fact, we offer, along with my colleague, Svetlana Petrovna Zalitchuk, to return to practice when decisions are made by half of the membership of the International Council of Experts. But again, I would like to turn to you, dear colleagues. All of our corrections with Svetlana Petrovna go completely with the canoe of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. That's why, in fact, if we don't take all the recommendations into account and banally create this Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, it's going to be a fair anti-corruption court. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to support this. Ruslan Petrovich, and there's an article there, and you'd be absolutely right if you didn't have some confirmation papers here. That's why there's another two-thirds in the paper right now. That's why I insist on voting on mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u52	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Nevertheless, I insist that we vote on the said amendment, where the decision-making mechanism is being introduced by the international council, I apologize, the Civil Council of International Experts by a simple majority of the votes. And there's a perfectly legal and conscious logic. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladislav Volodymyrovich. I just said that, because not all the amendments that apply to this are for confirmation. So we're still saving our chances. Another point is that if everyone is not confirmed, probably as proposed by the Chairman of the Supreme Council at the beginning of the bill's consideration, the commission of the committee will make some suggestions on this point. And together with you on the committee, we're gonna have to think about how to get out of this situation. So, I think this logic that was proposed by the committee is more faithful. If we're just going to write what you're proposing, we're going to have to say that the decision of the public council is made by a majority of the votes, and by a majority of the votes. If it had been two thirds before, it was logical. And now the change in those words makes, I think, some kind of legal tautology. From a legal point of view, we will definitely be corrected by the legal authorities. Therefore, we need to think about how to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u56	Thank you. I'm going to put it to a vote, but I want to point out, as in all major reforms, once all the rights have been reviewed (the government, I'm talking to you) after all the rights have been reviewed, the committee will gather and tell the Supreme Council: we ask you to go back to the one or the other, because otherwise the law will be completely balanced. We applied this practice to all the reforms, regardless of whose authorship they were and who was their initiator. We will also use the same practice immediately before the final vote for the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. And I think the committee and the committee pitch here play a key role. But according to your insistence, I am voting on Amendment 1289. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:57:08]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 1290. 1291. Excuse me, 1290, Carpuntz. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to welcome the full-fledged House of Parliament today in its consideration of rights. So to this day, let's be honest, it didn't have 226 representatives, today there are more, so I'm getting involved in law enforcement work, I'm going to try to convince my colleagues there to support me where I wasn't supported by a committee that I couldn't stand up to. And I urge everyone, well, determined today to stand up and support their colleagues, because there is a possibility. Mine. This edit, it's written, it's rejected, but it's essentially the same thing as the editor. I mean, Andrew Volodymyrovich, my next draft, get me to work. And in this case, you don't need to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u58	Thank you very much. I'm going to make all your changes sound like I'm sounding every revision, and you're going to be able to stand up for your position. But we don't vote on that? Okay. Thank you. So 1291. 1292, Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u59	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. First, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with articles 119, 120, 121 of the Rules, members of the People's Rules, who were, inter alia, on missions, have the right to request that they return to those rights that have not been considered by Parliament, whose authors they are, as you are asked in writing. But to decide what to do, maybe we'll go back to that question after all the rights have been passed. As far as 1292 is concerned. Well, first of all, it's important not just any anti-corruption court, but we need an independent anti-corruption court in which the Public Council of International Experts will have the opportunity to influence the formation of an anti-corruption court, and this will not be done properly by the Pradenkovi on private property rights of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges and the Supreme Council of Justice, on the one hand. But on the other hand, the Public Council of International Experts, in making their own conclusions, their own decisions, should be based on actual data, not a sense of something, not on imagination, and so on. That's exactly what 1292 is about. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u60	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u61	We had a discussion on this committee when we discussed this. It was a pity that Sergio Volodymyrovich was not in the country at the time, but the discussion was interesting. The point is that he actually predicted the rule that the Public Council should be based on concrete evidence when it makes a decision on inappropriateness. But given the position of the Venice Commission, to most committees, we have reached the point where we cannot impose an internal labour regulations on the Public Council of International Experts and, as it were, how to deal with the issues or whether to take them into account, or not, the apiorists believe that they are highly qualified international experts and will do so, because if they conclude that they do not comply with certain criteria provided for in the law, there must be some evidence to do so. If they make any mistakes, they will probably be able to draw attention to this and ask them to reconsider this position and to listen to such evidence. But it is now deliberate to write the internal rules of their work and procedures, according to the committee, that it is inappropriate, as it were, not to interfere with the nature of their work, so as not to complicate the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u62	Thank you. But Sergey Vlasenko insists on voting. And I'm betting on the 1292 vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:01:12]] For-57 The decision is not made. Next item is 1293. Ivan Krulko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u63	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I have very simple advice on this bill. We have the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which made some recommendations. In fact, the logic of the proposals made by Fatherland to this bill was based on the conclusions of the Venice Commission. So we suggest that we specifically in this article add an opportunity for experts who will work on the Public Council of International Experts to present their comments in writing and to add to the conclusion or a separate opinion on a particular candidate if the vote did not take place as the public expert thought it would. The proposal to do so is established practice. I believe that in no way will this bill only strengthen. Please support the Motherland Amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovich, in principle, the committee, when it discussed this issue, did not in principle object to your idea, but I must tell you that what I told Mr. Vlasenko, they seem to be resounding because we decided to write them a rule on how to act. Although the practice of the Public Council of Virtue has already been followed, even though the law has not explicitly stated such an order, they themselves have adopted an internal regulation that provides for the possibility of a separate opinion, and in fact, there are several distinct points of view in each of the decisions regarding inadequacy. We very much hope that the Public Council of International Experts will go the same way -- and this positive experience of the DG will be accepted for its work. In our view, it is a deliberate law to impose improperly on them, hoping that they will still have to move on to such a logic of their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u66	Thank you. You insist on voting. Yeah? Please vote. [[11:03:35]] For-47 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1294. Don't insist. 1295. Don't insist. 1296. Don't insist. 1297. Don't insist. 1298. Don't insist. 1299. Don't insist. 1300. Don't insist. 1301. Don't insist. Please, the national deputy of Yemen. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please return to Amendment 1288, which is, in large accounts, crucial for the bill to result in a real anti-corruption court, not just a table on a beautiful building. In fact, this amendment refers to how the International Council of Experts makes a decision that can be made by a candidate who wants to be a judge of an anti-corruption court in the event that there are doubts about his integrity under this candidate. Actually, this is the key to determining whether we want a real anti-corruption court or whether we want a fair trial. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u68	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u69	Thank you. I want to say, Leonidas Alexandrovich, that on the committee where you made the decision -- unfortunately, you were on a mission and you couldn't participate -- we supported the logic of your amendment. I've just had a discussion with other colleagues, and I've offered everyone, without exception, the decision of the Public Council of International Experts to take a majority of the votes. Hopefully, together on the committee, we will be able to keep this logic going until this issue is finalized. Because I agree with you that this is a fundamental decision on various grounds, including on the grounds that the Public Council of International Experts cannot make different decisions by a different majority. It can have, as for me, negative consequences, maybe deliberate, maybe unintentionally, so you have to start the only right approach, any decisions are made in most of the composition. That is, at least four of the seven members of the International Council of Experts should give their vote in favour of such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please vote. [[11:06:28]] For-100 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1302. Don't insist. 1303. Don't insist. 1304. What's that? 302. Please, the national MP of Savrasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, please count, vote for 302 and 303. In part 13 of article 9, after the words "organizational and technical security," replace the words "Citizen Council of International Experts" with the words "Expert Group on the Selection of Judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court." Please place the second and 303 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u72	Thank you. Please vote. Amendment 1302 of the vote. [[11:07:32]] For-39 The decision is not made. And amendment number 1303. Please vote. [[11:07:48]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The next 1304 amendment. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1305. Don't insist. 1306. Don't insist. 1307. Don't insist. 1308. Don't insist. 1309. Don't insist. 1310. Please, National Deputy Rickov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u73	Tetjana Ritchkova, 27th District of Dnipro. I ask for part 13 of article 9 to be edited as follows: "Organizational and technical support for the activities of the Public Council of Experts is carried out by the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u74	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u75	I mean, Mrs. Tetjano, we agreed to your readjustment essentially, we just extended it a little bit, so we turned it down. We have foreseen, in addition to what you have suggested, a second sentence that financing the activities of such a public council can be done with the involvement of international technical assistance. This was the position of the Venice Commission, our partners, and we don't see anything wrong with it, if the State Judicial Administration were to provide organizational and technical security, including certain, let's say, actions or, let's say, the possibility of activities being made at the expense of such assistance. So if you don't mind, don't insist on that, because it's absorbed by our editors like I am. But this is your right, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 1311. People's deputies don't insist. 1312. Please, the Dove People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u77	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Now, Ruslan Petrovich, the active text that is proposed for second reading, and you're absolutely right, provides for a somewhat expanded funding of the board. In particular, there is a peremptory norm that speaks of funding from the State Judicial Administration and is also discretionary, where it is written that this council may involve funds from international experts. Oh, I'm sorry, from international institutions. Actually, this right over here, we're just suggesting that we just divide the imperative and the discretion. Nevertheless, paragraph 13 states that "Organizational and technical support for the activities of the Public Council of International Experts is provided by the State Court of Justice." And then I have another right, which introduces paragraph 14, which also introduces discretion as to the possibility of funding the council listed by international institutions. Thank you very much. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u79	Well, Vladislav Volodymyrovich, you and I have adopted a different concept on the committee. But if you think it's more appropriate, it's your right. We just came out of what, because there are, including in the Venice Commission, warnings that everything without the exception of organizational and technical security would be carried out by the SAA, they probably have reason to doubt, perhaps theoretically, that such security would be appropriate. As far as I'm concerned, there's no reason. But we've gone to allow the funds of international technical assistance to be involved in this case. If you think you have to do it in different parts, it doesn't change the point, so if you don't insist, we'd be grateful, because the more we're going to code it in the text now, then it's going to be hard to get the logic of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:11:38]] For-34 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1313. Please, People's Deputies of Carpunz.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, in this case the amendment is essentially, although it is rejected, it is essentially editorially in line with the norm. What's the point? The point is, I've proposed that this institution be named "The Council of International Experts" throughout the text, not "The Public Council." Because to the Ukrainian public, it has great respect, but it has nothing to do with it, it's a board of international experts. Sadly, though, an amendment does not play a role throughout the text. But it's essentially counted, so don't put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u82	Thank you. There's no need to comment. The next amendment is number 1314. Doesn't it insist on a national MP? 1315. People's Deputy Lapin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I ask your support. I think it's purely technical, but the point is to put it in a separate piece.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:13:05]] For-39 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1316, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u85	It is proposed that the draft rule on possible financing of the Public Council’s activities with the involvement of international technical assistance be excluded. I would like to point out that the amount of funding of the relevant institution will be equal to the amount of funding of one district government. If you have questions about possible sources of funding for this kind of budget, I want to draw your attention, first of all, to corruption at the Crossroads, where billions of dollars can be stolen every year for these purposes, for corruption in general in the Ministry of Infrastructure, for corruption in the Ministry of Finance. Notice how you accept a government budget when, somewhere in the middle of the night, a national MP reads out tens of billions of dollars, not dollars, for social purposes. Consider, too, the corruption of individual city heads, such as the city’s head Poltava, where billions of dollars are stolen each year. We don't have to go into the pockets of international institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u86	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u87	Mr. Sergei, I respect your position. As you remember, you raised questions about the salaries of members of the Civil Council. You said it would be unacceptable if we financed their salaries from the state budget. Let them finance the nations that send them. Then, then. I don't know if it's That's when we have to support this logic, because we can't go all the way to the budget either, and the State Court Administration has to make 100 percent of these payments for organizational and technical security. Because, believe me, it's nothing less than expenses than those on salary. Because as far as I'm concerned, we're looking forward to your support here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:15:20.]] For the 18th. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1317. People's deputies don't insist. 1318. Don't insist. 1319. The Dove People's Deputy. 1320. National MP Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is really important that we adopt a law Thursday in the session room that is really needed by both the state and society. And I hope that every parliamentarian, especially those who fear that they will then be judged by an anti-corruption independent court, will also think about the fate of the state, not how to preserve their own assets. I would like to take a look at this amendment, which concerns financing the activities of the Public Council of International Experts, which can also be done with the involvement of international technical assistance. I also wanted to say that there was a security conference in Estonia, and most of our international partners are asking whether the Ukrainian Parliament will be able to vote on the Anti-Corruption Law. We also talked about the question of North Stream-2, where there is a very clear position of Ukraine. We don't need any guarantees from Germany. The only guarantee is the complete non-admission of North Stream-2. So I think that the anti-corruption court, the non-admission of the North Stream, the 2nd, the vote for the renewal of the CBC, are those priorities that are still ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u91	I, Hanna Mikolayevna, wanted to say that in principle we agreed to your proposal and counted it in paragraph 13, we simply merged two points. So if you don't insist, because there's more to the point of this singing, it just doesn't see the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Are you insisting? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 1321. Please, National Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! It is proposed to support this amendment. And one paragraph in article 9 should include the question of: "Financing the activities of the Public Council of International Experts can be done with the involvement of international technical assistance." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u94	Thank you. Aren't you going to comment? Please vote. [[11:18:10]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1322. People's deputy pigeon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u95	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. Again, I, along with my colleague Light Petrovna Zalitzak, propose to divide the peremptory norm and discretionary. And that's actually the absolute logic of normality. In particular, we propose to add a 14-point item which, as an editor, "Financing the activities of the Public Council of International Experts can be done with the involvement of international technical assistance." To my colleagues who say it might have an impact on the activities of the Public Council of International Experts, I would like to remind them that the same situation is already in the current legislation. And such material and technical, sorry, financial and technical assistance from our Western partners we already provide for a number of other state bodies. That's why it's perfectly logical when we do, a) we do have an imperative and discretion; and a second, we're going to let our Western partners help us create an institution called the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u96	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u97	Vladislav Volodymyrovich, if you go from this, parts of this article apply exclusively to organizational and technical and financial security in different interpretations where discretion, not discretion, could be agreed with your logic. The point is that these points apply in general to activities, including making decisions and so forth. Only one 13 points apply to organizational and financial security. So everything about these issues, as it were, was absorbed. If you feel that you need an additional single paragraph only to do so, the committee feels that this is not appropriate. But as long as it is more convenient for those who will use this law to see immediately in a separate section everything about these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u98	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Please vote. [[11:20:25]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1322. Don't you insist? You insist. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u99	1323. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u100	I'm sorry, yes, 1323. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u101	Article 9 adds a new part of the following content: “The media representatives and interested persons have free access to meetings of the Competitive Commission of the Public Council of Virtue. The secretariat of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine provides video and audio-fixion." In fact, the challenge is that millions of ordinary Ukrainians can monitor how judges are selected for the appropriate anticorruption court. I want to stress that the information that ordinary Ukrainians don't watch, for example, "The Council" is completely invalid. Even now millions and millions of our fellow countrymen are watching how the national deputies work, how they visit the hall, and how they fight for an anticorruption court in Ukraine. So in this case, we have to give them the opportunity to monitor all the trials in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u102	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u103	I've already explained the position of the committee, I'll do it again. We have come from regulating the maximum activity of government bodies, including the activities of the CCW. When we look at this issue, we've clearly written that any of their meetings and decisions are public with the media, with the Internet broadcast, with the video fixation, with the audio fixation, and so on. And we deliberately decided not to introduce regulatory rules on the activities of the public council, understanding that international experts will certainly do so in a transparent, transparent and transparent way to show the example, including the CCW, to all the society in Ukraine, how to do so. We don't even allow the idea that they can take something in secret out there. If they allow it, well, we'll probably react. Thank you. Including the WCC will have enough weights to raise this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please vote. [[11:22:51]] For-29 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1324. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u105	I want to tell you, Madam Chairman, that I insist, insist, and insist on all my actions, because I have designed and protected them for this. It is proposed to establish the public's obligation to inform about the agenda and the venue of the meeting not later than 72 hours before the beginning of the meeting on the official website of the High Qualifications Commission. We were, dear fellow countrymen and distinguished colleagues, witnesses as you assigned us the heads of the district administrations and whom you assigned there, and what the consequences of their work. We witnessed you and the foreigners discussing who should be the minister of health and substitutes, and now we are digging up all the consequences of such a culinary decision - making. So I insist that the public know exactly where the appropriate meetings are going to be, so that you don't push your best men, your sisters, your brothers, your mother-in-law, and so on, and that the new anti-corruption court really becomes a real, real, new anti-corruption locomotive. Because any of your own initiatives and desire to overcome corruption have failed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u106	Thank you. And please vote. [[11:24:22]] For-35 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1325. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u107	Article 9 adds a new part of this content: "The meeting of the Competition Commission of the Council of Public Integrity is valid if it is attended by at least 9 members." The task and, more specifically, the mission of appropriate regulation, the corresponding new rule of law that regulates the issue of the formation of a system of control over the election of judges of the anti-corruption court, is to make it impossible for us and you to create public councils under control. So that, my dear fellow countrymen, they will not be able to fully usurp and control such public councils and hold appropriate meetings without the actual natural, normal quota and the presence of the quorum in the relevant public institution. I insist on voting for an appropriate amendment, and I also point to the need for public public control over what is going to happen in an anti-corruption court so that it does not turn into a post-Radians or Ukrainian court that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u108	Please vote. [[11:25:51]] For-27 The decision is not made. And the next amendment is number 1326. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u109	Article 9 requires us to make provision for the adoption of the rules of procedure of the Public Council. During the last seven years of my public political activity, I have witnessed many Sabbaths in the so - called public councils, which are controlled by the minister, the head of the state administration, but which were created to represent the interests of the Ukrainian people, with the aim of representing the interests of the common people. In order to organize such a Sabbath, it was impossible to implement, we must adopt appropriate regulations, orderly arrangements, and the chairman of the appropriate council should keep a close eye on the arrangements for making decisions. And in general, I would like to point out that my team is two-handed, two-legged, all-for-all for the creation of an anti-corruption court. And we really think that such an anti-corruption court will be a real locomotive that will address the issue of fighting corruption from the ground. No courts created in 27 years will carry out the task that we have together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u110	Please vote. [[11:27:20]] For-25 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1323. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u111	This amendment also applies to the question of the organisation of transparency of the activities of the relevant competition commission. But in addition to that, I would like to emphasize what an anti-corruption court is for. The Anti-Corruption Court will allow us to destroy all the multibillion-dollar schemes, destroy and close all the flows that end in the pockets of the rulers, including owners and shareholders, key factions, national MPs and politicians in our country. Imagine, in the same Germany, the doctor gets about 6.5,000 euros in wages, for our money, it's about 200,000 dollars. A simple doctor in Germany receives 200,000. Our doctors only get 6, 7, at best, thousands of dollars for their extremely hard work, responsible, heroic work. The same situation with teachers who are paid 150-160,000 dollars abroad, in our country, God forbid 6-7 thousand dollars. An anticorruption court will save money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u112	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify a colleague for the amendment of 1327 People's Deputies of Kaplin, please. The chairman of the committee won't comment, he says the committee has decided to make an amendment. Please. [[11:29:04]] For-24 24 national deputies supported your amendment, Sir Sergei. Let's move on. Next 1328, People's Deputy Lapin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention and offer to support this amendment. In particular, in articles 9, 15, point out that the requirements of articles 45 and 52 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act do not extend to members of the Public Council of International Experts, who are not residents of Ukraine. In other words, I point out that non-residents of Ukraine report to their countries. So there's an offer for aliens to be excluded, and so they don't have to be distributed by these norms, and they didn't do e-declaration, because they don't get the money from the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u114	Thank you for your standard, the committee rejected it. Let's vote on this rule. Please, I'm asking you to identify your colleague for Amendment 1328. [[11:30:17]] For-55 55 votes for the amendment, she declines. Next amendment, National Deputy Chižmar. Don't insist. Germany, 1332. Dear Mr. Vasile, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u115	Germany, the Opposition Block. My amendment concerns the introduction into the judicial system of a specialized anti-corruption court. And since this court is not a specialized one, but a special one, it is in my opinion that we must accept this amendment in order to abandon these special courts. I want to remind all my colleagues that there is no need to make smart, complacent faces of the subject of the legislative process. We've been with you for the second week, where actually the consideration of amendments has turned into a waste of parliamentary procedures, which is not visible by turning the legislative process into political masturbation. It's time to stop this nonsense, we've become statisticians, and we all understand that the question is solved at Gosdepa and internationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Will there be a comment from the committee head? No, it's not. I'm asking you to proceed with the amendment of 1332 of the German People's Deputies, please. [[11:32:08]] For-25 Twenty-five deputies supported the amendment, and it refuses. Next 1333 Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u117	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. This is our freedom amendment. It's about forming a competitive commission. We think that the proposed proportions that are actually in this amendment, and the mechanism that we're proposing is optimal in terms of making the anti-corruption court really an independent structure. Independent both internally and externally, which would adopt decisions solely on the basis of Ukrainian laws, would be an important element in the fight against corruption that it should be. Because we all understand very well that without the independence of any anti-corruption court there will be no. It will simply be an institution that is little different from today’s courts. And for it to be qualitatively different, we need to prescribe the procedure for the formation of this court so as not to leave the possibility for any external influences and manipulations. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be determined by amendment 1333, the essence of which has just been told by author Andri Illenko. I'd like to make a statement. The committee turned it down. [[11:33:36]] For-34 34 national deputies support your amendment. Dear Mr. Andrey, she's refusing. And another 1334, same as Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u119	Likewise, I ask the National Deputies to support this amendment. Unfortunately, we work under such conditions that most of the national MPs are missing, they don't participate in Parliament's work, and according to us, they're looking at, well, rather, to let just society hear that there's some position and there's some work in the individual national MPs. But in general, we see that this procedure, it actually exists as a proponent, unfortunately too. Therefore, my proposal is to vote in favour of this amendment proposed by Freedom, which refers to the order of the competition and the appointment of the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court, to which we actually propose the option that we consider to be the most optimal and objective in terms of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'm very much asking you to identify everyone on line 1334. [[11:34:57]] For-22. 22 deputies supported it, and the amendment was rejected. Dear Mr. Capplin, 1335. We're going in order. Before that, it was 1325, now it's 1335. Next amendment 1335. The same is true of Andrew Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u121	Likewise, the honourable national MPs are proposing an amendment that was prepared by the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, which we consider to be important and an important principle, which in fact relates to the features of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court competition and where we have, in fact, proposed a detailed, progressive list of all necessary measures and procedures to be taken in order to prevent manipulation, in order to prevent a subjective factor during this process. Because unfortunately, we also saw a competition in the Supreme Court, where there were a lot of scandals and actually a third of the candidates, they had, let's say, not to go through this competition, but they went through it, unfortunately, and a lot of other similar situations that today seem completely unprofessional, controlled outside and just like propaganda. Therefore, we ask the people’s deputies to support this amendment in order to prevent similar events in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u122	Please identify yourself as amended by 1335, Your Honor. Please, please. The committee refused, but our colleague, Your Honor Andrew Illenko, is asking to support the amendment. [[11:36:30.]] For-25 25 votes in favour, the amendment is rejected. The next one is 1336. National MP Maxim Savrasov. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I propose that you complete chapter III with the following new article: "Article 10. Order of business of the Competitive Commission. The competitive commission at its meeting approves its rules of procedure. The Conciliation Commission is mandated if it is attended by at least seven of its members. The decision of the Competition Commission is considered acceptable if at least seven members of the Competition Commission have voted for it. Representatives of the media and any other interested persons have free access to the Competition Commission meetings. Information on the time and venue of the Competition Commission is posted on the official website of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges no later than 48 hours, and the work of the Competition Commission is provided by the Secretariat. The members of the competition commission exercise their powers on the basis of public principles." Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we put to the vote Amendment 1336 of Maxim Savrasov concerning the work of the competitive commission. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:53]] For-31 Doesn't get the required number of votes. The next is the same thing as Maxim Saurasov. Please, 1337 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u125	I would also like to ask you to place consecutively for confirmation 337 concerning the addition of Chapter III to Article 11; 338 to Article 12 and Article 339 to Article 13. Please place all these changes in a sequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll just point out that it's not about confirmation, it's about the vote of amendments, because it's the amendments of Maxim Savrasov, the committee rejected them. Maxim Savrasov, as the author, insists on voting on his amendments to the author's editorials. And that's why, of course, we're going to the vote now. Please, 1337 amendments, please specify. As the author explained, this refers to the work of a competitive commission that will elect judges. Please. [[11:39:04]] For-26 Twenty-six national deputies were supported. The correction is being rejected. Then Maxim, as the author of the amendments, simply asks them to put them to the vote. 1338, please identify yourself. The author asked for support, the committee refused. [[11:39:28]] For-24 Twenty-four deputies supported it. The next one is 1339. Likewise, I ask you to vote. [[11:39:48]] For-23 23 national deputies supported it. The correction is being rejected. The next is 1340. Don't insist. Let's move on. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I see, I see. The next one is 1341.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u127	Yemen?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u128	No, it's after 1340, I see. 1341. Vlasenko's next amendment. Sergey insists. Mr. Sergey insists. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. This group of amendments was prepared by me in co-authorship with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And we, you know, insist that the proposed model for the functioning of the High Anti-Corruption Court, which is both the court of first and the court of appeal, is sufficiently questionable from a legal point of view, at least there are no precedents in Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, if the jurisdiction of this court were to coincide with the jurisdiction of the NABU, it would probably be appropriate to create divisions, territorial courts, where the NABU territorial units were created, and they would be the courts of the first instance, and create a higher anti-corruption court that would be the court of appeal. And then everything would be logical, normal, and it would at least match the tradition that we have. Sadly, though, a hybrid appeal and judicial supervision was offered when the court and the court of the first instance and the court of appeal. So I'm asking you to support this amendment, because it refers to the concept that's being declared.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u130	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u131	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Well, in principle, we discussed this at the very beginning of the discussion about how to move, about the concept, including the activities of the High Anti-Corruption Court. We pushed away from those recommendations that Ukraine had received in the conclusion of the Venice Commission. You remember, at the time, the conclusion applied to two bills, one that was similar to this bill, the other one foresaw some kind of institutionality. The Venice Commission strongly opposed, and it considered it appropriate to establish a court of two institutions in one court. And as an example, we had a lengthy discussion, including at a meeting of the Venice Commission, they proposed a Bosnian model where such courts operate, and according to the Venice Commission, they operate quite effectively. Of course, this is a great novelty for Ukraine, and we do not fully understand how it will work. But given that such a concept was adopted by us and was voted in the first reading, the sense of moving on to another model was not supported by Parliament. Since this would mean rewriting the law in a new way and rewriting the mechanisms for such courts. Because you're actually offering 5 courts: 4 by territorial jurisdiction is the first instance and higher than.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u132	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u133	It's like a second-instance court. But the Courtship Act clearly states that this should be the exclusive court of the first instance. And that's why we had to avoid this standard in order to find the right compromise. I think there's been a compromise. Life will go on. If we need to, we can think together about how to make changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u134	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on amendment 1341. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:43:18]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 1342. Don't insist. 1343. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u135	Thank you. This is once again we will continue to discuss the anti-corruption system now. Because it seems a little strange to me, you know, to implement into the Ukrainian judicial system some kind of entrapment from the judicial systems of other countries. Plus, the head of the committee rightly pointed out that, in fact, appeals would be handled by the same judges who are looking at the cases of the first instance, which is, in principle, kind of, very, very, very unconventional. And I really liked the writing of the chairman of the committee, who said, "Let's take it. Then let's look at it and make changes." Unfortunately, all laws are passed in such a way. I want to remind you how we adopted these famous codes. When we began, opposition deputies said that it was unacceptable, but no one listened. They voted in such a way as they voted. And within a month, they started to discuss the possibility of making changes. I wouldn't want to say much here about the need to pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act. And I'd like to adopt a law that actually works and provides a fair, irreparable punishment for anti-corruption, not propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u136	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u137	I'm the only one who can correct you for my quote. I said that if there is a need, Parliament, we are not with you, which Parliament may return to the right changes. Moreover, at the first meeting last week, we adopted the logic proposed by the committee, which was to amend a number of colleagues that any changes to this law could only be made by a special law amending this law, so that we could also have a professional discussion there, so that it wouldn't happen in some transitional situation, to some law by modifying the concept of this law. I think that's the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u138	Thank you. So quote Knjazewicz correctly, Mr. Sergey. And I'm voting on Amendment 1343. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please. [[11:45:40.]] For-37 The decision is not made. 1344. 1345. 1346. 1347. 1348. 1349. Carpuntz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, well, really, it seems strange to have a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, without having a lower court, but we've already had this discussion. Article 10 says: Additional guarantees for the security of the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So we're both in the first instance, and we're throwing the appeal into the same hammuse, and we're showing it's a special court, not a special court, because the judges are the same. Therefore, I propose that additional guarantees of the security of the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court and the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption at least somehow separate them from each other as the first instance and appeal. Well, any kind of visibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u140	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u141	Well, thank you, Mr. Valeria. There's actually a continuation of that discussion that's just been going on. Yes, in fact, they will all be judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court, just individual ones will work in the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court. Of course, it's a little unusual and it's a big novelty for Ukraine. Therefore, it is not considered appropriate to isolate their status in additional safeguards. It seems to me that such guarantees should be universal. Because in order to avoid these problems, the law provides that these will in fact be two courts. It will legally be one court, but in fact they will be located in different premises, the judges will sit down and not actually intersect. The head of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will not be the head of the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So everything we could do, we organized it, how it's going to be in practice, we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u142	Do you insist on voting? Yeah? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 1349 National Deputy Karpuntsov, and the committee rejected it. Who is supporting her? Please vote. [[11:48:01]] For-46 The decision is not made. 1348, Nemirowski. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u143	Please place such an amendment for confirmation, the title of article 10, in a new edition, as additional guarantees and guarantees of the security of judges and jurors of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, because this applies to all judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u144	Please, Mr. Ruslan. I understand that this standard in other articles has already been corrected. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u145	This provides for the possibility of a jury in a court of the Supreme Anticorruption Court, since this concept is not supported from the very beginning, the committee did not consider it appropriate to support such a proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u146	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 1348 National Deputy Nemirowski, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:49:09]] For-53 The decision is not made. Let's move on. 1350. 1351. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u147	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. The more he comments, the head of the committee comments, the more obvious it is that it raises even more questions about the creation of essentially two courts in one. So the chairman of the committee, commenting on the previous amendment, said that everything would be clearly divided, that it would actually be two courts and so on, that the head of the court would not influence the head of the Appeals Chamber. Then I have a simple question: what's the point of creating one court if it's all actually divided? Why are we implementing in the Ukrainian model one element from another model that is not correlated with other structural systems and so on? Well, that raises more questions than answers. And so I urge you, together with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, to go back to discussing when we're going to have territorial courts, anti-corruption courts as first instance courts, and there's going to be a Higher Anti-Corruption Court as a Court of Appeal, which is completely logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u148	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u149	Well, basically, this is the same discussion. Let me just say that we're going to have a similar situation with a higher intellectual property specialist, and we're going to see, including how it's going to work. So you can't say that this is just the one element that we introduced. We have already introduced such an element by adopting codes, and that is why we go to the river of logic. How it's going to work, now it's hard to predict. But it seems to me that the experience that is, indeed, in foreign countries, an effective experience, well, it may and will be quite effective in Ukraine. Life will show. I very much hope that it will be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u150	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 1351. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:51:24]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 1352. 1353. Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I propose to support this amendment. In the first part of article 10, the words “in connection with the exercise of justice in criminal conduct concerning corruption and corruption” should be deleted. What are we talking about? The point is that we have to provide security assurances to judges in accordance with legislation and their families. And I propose that security assurances should not only be linked to the execution of justice in criminal conduct. They should be everyday and always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u152	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u153	Mr. Igor, the logic is different. I don't think everyone's finished here, but I've already talked about it, and I'll do it again. Indeed, without exception, all judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should have 24 times a day, and that is to be understood. Moreover, according to their claim, their families can receive such protection, and more specifically, they will receive it. The committee also suggests that the circle be extended in case, indeed, when dealing with a case involving justice, criminal conduct, and corruption, there is a need for the protection of loved ones. It's, of course, a difficult thing in terms of probably domestic, there, things and so on. But this is a necessary thing for this very purpose. And this phrase enables such protection to be extended not only to a judge but also to family members and to loved ones. That is, if there is such a danger at the time of consideration and the judge makes a statement about why this danger exists, the State must provide such protection. That's what we were getting out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u154	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 1353 of the People's Deputy Lapin. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[11:53:38]] For-60 60-yes. The decision is not made. 1354th. Rent doesn't insist. 1355. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u155	The honourable deputies adopted in the first reading of the law provided security guarantees for judges and their families. And in the second reading, it is suggested that this standard be extended to people who are close to them, an additional 29 positions. I want you to hear these positions: "Man, wife, father, mother, stepmom, stepmother, son, daughter, stepdaughter, stepdaughter, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, great-grandmother, great-grandfather, grandchild, granddaughter, granddaughter, granddaughter, daughter-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, mother-in-law, adoptive mother-in-law, etc." I ask you to place 1355 for confirmation and fail it, not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u156	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u157	If you'll excuse me, Victor Mikhailovich. The point is that a large number of colleagues had to take these adjustments into account, including Chumak's colleague and a whole bunch of colleagues from the Impact Group. But there is a significant difference between what is proposed in the first edition and in the second, if the guard is 24 hours a day for the judge and it is actually paid for, for the members of his family in the case he refers to, it is voted in the first reading, the State is obliged to provide him with such protection, it can, i.e. it is the right of the State only in that case, I explain if during the consideration of a particular case there is a danger, for example for his adult children. Because family members, for example, are not adult children who live or whose parents do not live with them. If a child is taken hostage, even though he is a minor, in a particular case, the judge may turn to him and the state may consider such a situation and may provide him with protection. So let's, in this case, I think, support the logic of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u158	Or let's find another formulation that would be more correct. Maybe. Let's do another 30 seconds for Pinzenik's replica so we can maybe find a more correct formulation. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, ask yourself how many guards it takes to protect one protected person. We will soon have to take the troops off the front to protect not only the members of the court but also the loved ones. You know, in emergencies where there's a threat, without any legislation, we're given protection, and there's nothing to anticipate providing security for 29 of our loved ones. Please put to the vote and do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u160	Mr. Victor, I'll put it to a vote. I'll give it to Knyazevitch. I'm the only one who has a proposal to eventually find a formulation that could be supported by a hall. Please, Mr. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u161	The thing is, we're confusing state security and judicial protection. State protection, that is, the Department of State Protection, according to the law, is, indeed, in the event that a public official speaks to them, he can provide such protection in the event that there are such grounds, there is a threat. As far as judges are concerned, according to the law, such powers are not exercised by the Department of State Protection but are to be exercised by judicial protection, a special unit that has not yet been created, only to be created. But once you have this kind of thing in the law right now, it's going to be clear in the future how much of these units are going to be created and how much of the cost of their function should be put into the budget. It's just not possible to design it for the future right now. If you think this rule is not supported, well, I don't deny it, but in that case, if this situation arises, the court is going nowhere, because there's no reason in the law that, for example, his parents, who are being blackmailed, he's not going to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u162	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote, of course, that it's obviously going to be supported. But I'm going to call on the committee at its final stage to try to find a formulation that would eliminate risks while not exerting so much pressure on the Ukrainian state. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 1355. The committee considered her in part and the committee asked her to support her. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:58:32]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next, 1356. 1357. 1358. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u163	Yuri Derevyanco, Amendment 1358 Honorable colleagues, however, speak the language, perhaps the language we are now looking for in order for those who will be protected to have it in a reasonable and logical way, so that it does not apply to all loved ones. And our amendment with colleagues Chumak, Novak, Dobrodomov and Parasuk tells us that judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court are given alongside the established Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine concerning the judiciary and the status of judges to guarantee their personal security and personal security of their families. So we suggest that we limit ourselves to family members, no loved ones, and we offer. This amendment is rejected, please put it to the vote, and we suggest that we limit it to members of the family of judges who may require and require such protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u164	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u165	I ask you once again to pay attention to that editorial supported by the committee. The point is that judges are given guarantees. According to his statement — members of their families (what Mr. Derevyanko says) and may also be suitable for those who are close to him. You only look at the first part, in fact the title of the article. If you look at it further, it's about the fact that loved ones can be taken into custody only in that case. Yeah. So the state is going to determine whether it's going to provide protection. Only if there is a real threat to loved ones. When the judge receives the appropriate evidence and makes such a statement during the consideration of a certain conduct. I've already explained what this is about. You say a cousin can't be. What, though, often cannot happen when pressure is exerted on a cousin or on his grandfather or on his grandmother or on his parents or on his children? These are not members of the family in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. They are family members only if they live together. If they do not live, they are no longer members of the family, or pressure on the child, the judge has nowhere to go. In what way can he then exercise justice? Let's be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u166	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 1358th Group of Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:01:24]] For-27 The decision is not made. Colleagues, let's figure out where we're staying. On 1359. The author is Dove. At 12:30, we'll continue our work, we'll start our work with your work, so I'm asking you to be there so that we can continue our work. And, colleagues, I emphasize, we will need to find the right wording for family members and close relatives. I think the committee makes sense. Let's re-examine, we'll hold consultations on a break, because I'm convinced that we have to make a decision that will be right and that will give maximum protection to the judges of the anti-corruption court. Now I'm giving Irina Heratchenko a minute to announce. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, please make an announcement. Continuing its activities in the framework of the Vietnam Cultural Year in Ukraine, the Vietnamese Embassy in Ukraine presents a photo exhibition on Vietnam: Country and People. And this photo exhibition is now taking place in the spheres of the Ukrainian Parliament. Welcomes the head of the Oxana Jurinec Friendship Group and the entire Ukrainian-Vietnam Friendship Group of our deputies to attend this exhibition. Mrs. Kugel adds as an active member of this group of friendships that takes place on the first floor of a photo exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u168	So, colleagues, right now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Please come to the hall at 12:35. And we'll continue our review of 1359 rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u169	Time spent for a break is over. He's the head of the combat committee. The author of an amendment in full combat readiness. So we continue to consider the Higher Anticorruption Court Law. And we have 1359. And I give the floor to my amendment to Mr. Dove. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u170	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Of course, I'm not going to insist on voting the bill because, I think, I think, well, people of 40 are in the session room right now, so putting them on approval on one side would be illogical. But with regard to this issue that we are discussing in the block, namely, the protection of family members or close relatives there, the next amendment is very clear and we are writing out this position. But on the other hand, my dear colleagues, I want you to be aware that the future judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will be standing over the country's greatest enemy is corruption, and that's all the princes involved, district leaders, ministers, national MPs. And you understand. As a matter of fact, this is Cherkishina who is particularly familiar with her kind of corruption, but less so. That is why it is certainly important for us to provide future judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court with all kinds of mechanisms, as well as mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u171	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u172	Thank you. With all kinds of mechanisms, of course, and mechanisms that will prevent any influence, whether physical or any other influence, on the future judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. So I think we have to do everything we can to make the future judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, really, independent both professionally and humanly independent. So I don't insist on voting, considering that there are no people in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u173	Please, Mr. Ruslan, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u174	Well, as far as the people's deputies from Church are concerned, I don't think these things are relevant, of course. As to how this matter can be resolved. I believe that the model proposed by the committee is optimal. Because, indeed, if we had implicitly foreseen for all loved ones the right to protection, then perhaps there would be a discussion and a need for such a discussion. And when we foresaw this as a right, the judicial service, when the appropriate judge addressed them, would determine the purpose of such protection. On the other hand, dear colleagues, you must understand that where such courts function, these judges, they really choose, as it were, special living conditions and special living conditions of their families. For example, in Slovakia, who were, many were, we drove and watched the court work. It works in general, outside the city, the area is protected. They live there all the time. There is infrastructure of its own, social all conditions and so forth. The same is true in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u175	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u176	And that's going to be the choice of every candidate who's going to volunteer to be such a judge. He must understand what awaits him. Because these judges will be elected forever or until they're 65 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u177	So, colleagues, the author doesn't insist on the amendment, on the vote. But nevertheless, I am convinced that we should perhaps find common ground in the form of a working group. Because there's logic in Victor Pinzenic that we don't have an army of guards. But there is also the highest prerogative, which is to protect the judges of the anti-corruption court. If we plan to create an independent fair court, no doubt the judges will be at risk, at great risk. And we need to balance these two positions, as is always the balance between security and government funding. I think we just have to find the right wording. The committee is now proposing what they can do. That is, not as a mandatory option, but as an option. I think it's quite compromising. If it's not mandatory, let's say, if you want, the state will make a decision on this, but you might be able to find this formulation, maybe not 29 positions, but maybe give an exhaustive list, "Parents and children, if they don't live together with the family." So maybe this formulation is then we'll find it and put it to a vote. And I'm just asking Mr. Ruslan to analyze this thing. For the loss of even a few votes, the loss of even a few votes during the vote can be critical to the resulting vote. A comprehensive list may be provided: Father, brother, and children. Maybe you should think about it. And, in large measure, they have a committee on the site to find a formulation that would be compromising. So let's move on. 1360, Carpuntz. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I am grateful for explaining the head of the committee. And I realized that it's legal, it's one court, and it's real, it's two, the first instance of an appeal. But the point is, legally it should be two legal persons of public law, and in fact let them and one be governed by law, we're all in favour, that's all in reverse. This amendment therefore applies to the separation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Judges and the Chamber even in that they receive separate safeguards. I agree with my colleague Kaplan, who is watching the "Council" channel and reading "The Voice of Ukraine" to our citizens, we work for them. But still, Mr. Head, call the deputies to the hall. I started my work today because we had more than 226 votes in the morning. If we're going to run a roll-call now, we're going to have to close the sessions. We don't have 226 deputies in the hall right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u180	I want to confirm once again that this is really going to be a court that is actually going to be made up of the judges of the two institutions at the same time. But the specificity of the Appeals Chamber is that it can only deal with cases that have been brought before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court as first instance courts. And in this, so to speak, this concept that's been preserved since we voted in the first reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u181	Thank you. I'm going to point out that we're going to move on. If you'd like to make a comment to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'd like to invite you now to address the faction's leadership and invite the faction's deputies to the Hall, within your rights. I call on MPs every single time I call on MPs. And so I also ask that if there is a desire to involve MPs, it should also be through factions and through my colleagues, who on the left, on the right, and ahead of you should also be in the workplace. Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? Don't insist. Next up, 1361. He insists. Please, Mrs. Tetjana. Ritchie, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u182	Auntie Ritchkova, 27th District, Dnipro. Nevertheless, I believe that members of the family of judges should be protected and should be given additional guarantees, in addition to those defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u183	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u184	Mrs. Tetjana, we actually counted it. It's you just, you know, first-reading. When you look at the right column of the committee, it's actually taken into account, including in terms of property protection and residence. Indeed, you need to understand that if such a statement is made, the property of the judges and their family members will be protected. With regard to the place of residence, respected colleagues, the concept provides that the State should be provided with specially equipped residences for such judges with specially equipped protective systems. So as soon as they get this kind of service housing, they'll already have this apartment equipped with security systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u185	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm putting to the vote amendment 1361 of the people's deputy, Rick. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[12:44:20]] For-31 The decision is not made. 1362. Don't insist. 1363. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u186	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Colleagues we're discussing right now. Look, it's obvious that all the so-called judicial reform has failed completely because we don't have a system that makes fair and just and legal decisions. Now what we're talking about is that we're going to create some kind of completely hybrid court, where the first institution is going to be, and the appeal court, and this court is going to be the most honest court in the system that we have today. And we're saying that this system is actually some kind of, there, Bosnian or something, there, something else, and we're just mechanically implementing it into our Ukrainian system. And please tell me a simple question of practicality. And please tell me, if the NAB detectives, let's say that they work in Lviv, what are they going to do with the sanctions in Kiev? Tell me, please, the NABA detectives who are going to work in Žitomir, are they going to go with consent, let's say, for a procession in the city of Kiev? We've already adopted this in codes once, and then we were forced to look for mechanisms to undo it in two months. Well, that's ridiculous. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u187	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u188	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich's amendment is something else. She says that if the courts are created by the district branches of the NABU, the judges of these courts will be given full - time protection. Well, since it's a question, as it were, from the concept, I think the committee is in the position that we've already identified with the concept, and there's no point in supporting this amendment. It would be logical if the concept of the apiori was different.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u189	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 1363. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:46:30]] For-22. The decision is not made. 1364. Don't insist. 1365. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u190	My dear colleagues, I do not compromise the standards that apply to the protection of the judge and the members of his family. By the way, I will read you a standard that applies to family members. "These are persons who are married and their children, including adults, parents, caregivers and caregivers, other persons who live together, who are connected to a common life, have mutual rights and responsibilities, including those who live together and are not married." And it's proposed to add "neighbourly persons" to the people who live away from the judge's family. What does that mean? All-time security, it's like at least 15 people, because that's three changes. If there are 30 positions, this whole battalion is needed to protect the family’s loved ones. Please tell me, who will refuse to receive free security 24 hours a day, including the room in which you live? So I insist that the part that applies to loved ones be put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u191	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u192	Please place 1365 on confirmation, vote against it. And to limit yourself to the protection of a state judge and family members is not a small list.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u193	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u194	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you have correctly read the Anti-Corruption Act, which says that a number of individuals are only considered family members if they live and live together. That is, if, for example, a child does not live with a judge, or a judge, in fact, according to the logic of the Prevention of Corruption Act, he is not a member of the family, but he is a close person, and this resulted in a committee. Or, for example, a brother who does not live together and who may be under pressure, considering his brother’s activities as a judge of the High Court of Anticorruption. We left this option as a right, not a duty, but a right. But let the session room be defined. The committee will take the position of the session room, as it will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u195	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. And I'm still calling for the formulation, maybe in the basic formulation, to add "no matter where you live," "children, brothers, no matter where you live," then maybe this standard is aligned. This can be done in the final order, in the final order. And now I'm voting on amendment 1365, and the committee counted it, and I'm putting it on the stand. And whoever supports the committee's proposal, please vote. [[12:49:44]] For-53 I support the committee completely. I think it's just on the committee floor. I held back, I'm sorry, but deep down, I support the committee. I think we're going to find the formulation, and I think if there's a need, we're going to come together and think about what the wording should be. If necessary, I will participate directly. So the next one is 1366. Don't insist. 1367. Don't insist. 60th. Yeah? 60, we've already passed 60, and you've done it before, if I'm not mistaken. They were doing 60, yeah. Let's move on. 70th. But we haven't reached it yet. 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. 1370. Carpunz, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, by fully supporting the Head of the Supreme Council in the need for everyone to be present if we have such a formula in the Rules, not others, we are voting not with our feet, but with our hands when we introduce another formula, we will walk, we will support only interested deputies, we will work more on committees, then so. But today we have a regulation that obliges us not to imitate the adoption of an act, not to simulate the adoption of an act, namely, to adopt an act, to work on amendments. So I urge everyone to come to the hall and work anyway. The amendment is identical to the previous one, so I used my time to call on the people's deputies. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u197	Thank you. As you know, I always support the issue of discipline, and I urge the people's deputies to come into the hall, to participate in the discussion, because eventually we're going to have to make decisions in the hall. And the discussion that we're leading is important, meaningful, but when there's a final vote, everyone's focused on the subject and the essence of our discussion. Next. 1371. Don't insist. 1372. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u198	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. This right, when we were preparing with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, we were really getting out of the conceptual principle that we would have a few courts to deal with these cases, we would be referring to the courts of the first facility where the NABA unit is located, and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which would be the court of appeal. But I want to talk about something else, we're talking about a lot of little things right now, but I would focus on conceptual things. Listen, the committee head is saying, we don't know how it's going to work, we don't know what it is, we can't predict anything, because it's new and it's not known how it's going to work, it's artificial for our legal system. So let's go back and talk about the conceptual question and solve it correctly. We are urged to vote in favour of the law here on Thursday, so the question is not that we vote for the law, but the question is that this law can then work properly. So once again, I'm stressing Amendment 1372 because it refers to this conceptual issue, but in some ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u199	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u200	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, I can express my position. I just think that at this point, we can't radically change conceptually already, because this is the second reading, we're limited by certain, including regulatory norms. So if you were to leave your logic, you would have to start that idea from the very beginning. But unfortunately, we pushed away from the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which was here, that worked with us, that was their position from the very beginning, we took that position. I can't say it's artificial. I didn't say that, I said that it's a novelty for Ukraine, and as it works, we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u201	Thank you. I want to confirm, Mr. Sergei, that if we had a discussion, whether it was a special court or a separate chamber, then I gave a letter to the Venice Commission, I know, and they gave us recommendations that are quite detailed. All the judicial reforms that we adopted were adopted by the Venice Commission. And it's obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u202	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u203	Yes. And more than that, Mr. Sergei, you should have understood that. Yes, we create special organs, special organs to combat corruption. And so, I think we need to respect that logic, and I think the creation of special courts, as well as the special organs of NAB and SAP, is just the way to create anti-corruption infrastructure. In which we may deviate from the general rules in order to make the fight against corruption more effective and faster. But I understand you insist on voting. And I'm voting on Amendment 1372. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:54:53]] For-28 The decision is not taken. But notice, I supported the committee, Mr. Ruslan. Next up is 1973. Don't insist. He insists. Saurasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u204	In part three, "The House of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is equipped with a security signal and an alarm button," I propose that the words "and video surveillance" be added. It seems to me that we have the 20th century and the video surveillance will not prevent us. Thank you. And the next amendment I'm going to make is that I'm going to vote only for confirmation of 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u205	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u206	Well, we have come from the fact that video surveillance is constantly, 24 hours a day and 24 hours a person, his family members, he is violating human rights, and constitutional principles are inappropriate. So if a person requires this kind of video surveillance, they can set up a video recorder for themselves, like they do, we do, we already have that practice. So at the level of the legislative act, I don't think there's any point in writing that norm, but leaving it as a person's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u207	Thank you. So I'm voting on the 1373 amendment. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:56:26]] For-26 The decision is not made. 74th. Don't insist. 75th. Don't insist. 1376. Don't insist. 1377. Don't insist. 1378. Ruslan. Don't insist. 1379. Don't insist. 1380. Don't insist. 1381. Don't insist. 1382. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u208	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. You rightly pointed out, commenting on the previous amendment, that all the judicial reforms were accepted on the recommendation of the Venice Commission. With all due respect to the Venice Commission, to its authority, to its experience, but unfortunately, no part of our judicial reform worked, because, again, I emphasize, because we have not received an honest and fair trial. So, you know, actually, I'd be having more close discussions with the Venice Commission right now about the possible change in the concept of this law at least in the structure of an anti-corruption court. Because the state of affairs for today, I would like to stress again, the structure proposed in the bill raises more questions than it answers. And once again, we don't have to put in a little bit that we've passed any law that doesn't work, and in two months we're going to be running and creating anti-corruption courts territorially, because the NAB, which is sitting in Zitomir, won't be able to drive to Kiev every day to get sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u209	Thank you. Before you give Ruslan your word, Mr. Sergey, you're a lawyer and a good expert on the law. We will no longer be able to stop the consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u210	But there are adjustments that do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u211	Yes, there are adjustments that do, but on the one hand, I'm afraid it's going to be very difficult to change the concept in the next few days. At the same time, I know that without your votes, it will be difficult to collect 226. So take additional advice so that we can find a formula that will be acceptable to all supporters of the anti-corruption court, this law. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u212	This law applies to the fact that the judiciary should protect not only the judges of the High Court of Anticorruption but also the courts. anti-corruption territorial courts. Since the law does not provide for their creation, unfortunately the committee cannot support it. If such a concept were supported, the committee would not object.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u213	Thank you. So whoever supports the 1382, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[12:59:26]] For-28 The decision is not made. 1383. 1384. 1385. 1386. 1387, Karpuntsov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, of course, it's the same. We've got a facility for what? In order for the first instance to know that she was being appealed, the appeal knew that she was being slaughtered. And in this case, of course, it's hard to change the concept now. But I think it might be too difficult for us to correct mistakes when we make SAPs, NABs and anti-corruption courts -- threes that we had 100 years ago -- and what the consequences of monopolizing from justice could be in our country. Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u215	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u216	Well, I've already commented to Mr. Valeria in principle, because that goes on and on, based on the logic that we didn't support. He agrees that since the concept was different, so to speak, the committee had its position. I want to say that, my friends, if we were to change the concept, it's impossible to do that in the second reading, it would have to be done at the very beginning, in the first reading. Regrettably, then, the committee was somewhat limited to the opportunities provided by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u217	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 1387. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:01:19]] For-24 The decision is not made. 1388. Don't insist. 1389. Don't insist. 1390. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u218	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Actually, it's a big discussion. I would like to point out once again that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and I have prepared the necessary amendments that, in the second reading, would be able to ensure that such changes are made to the law that would allow us to form a system of anti-corruption courts, which would be made up of first-instance courts, which would coincide with the territorial units of the NABU, which would be logical. And you wouldn't have to go to Kiev from Lviv to get a search warrant. And the second appeal facility would be called the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, and it would be in Kiev. That's the way it is. So in the second reading, everything can be done. We just have to have the will and desire to create a system of anti-corruption courts that would work, not create artificial models, bringing some Bosnian elements into the already existing Ukrainian system of sudour, which is foreseen by our legislation. So I can see all the possibilities for doing this, but there's no desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u219	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u220	Well, I can only say one thing. What is more, they are now on their way to Thessalomian district court in Kiev. Thus, nothing will change. And so far I haven't heard any complaints from them about what it's extremely difficult to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u221	I'm voting on Amendment 1380. That was the second one, wasn't it? 90, 90th right. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:03:26]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 1391. Don't insist. 1392. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again. I regret that today’s discussion is very much like the discussion of our codes. When we were here, several deputies from the opposition: I, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Yuri Vitaliyovich Odarchenko proved some obvious things to us, and they said, "Oh no! But you're delaying our reform. We'll have all the courts open tomorrow. We'll be fine tomorrow." Well, unfortunately, nothing happened. And unfortunately, four months later, they came back to practically all of the lines that we talked about at the time and tried to make those changes, well, already to be seen as changes to the law. I'm a strong opponent in propaganda. I want us to now, as we prepare this bill, look at all its flaws, real flaws and solve them at this stage. And they didn't talk about what, let's wait. Well, look, everything else didn't work out, and all of a sudden, it'll work. It doesn't work, if it's done, you know, when the car is put ahead of the horse. I'm going back to the problem of the anti-corruption court system. Otherwise it won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u223	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u224	Well, I'm just saying. I think I can only confirm my words. Please determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u225	I'm voting on Amendment 1392. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:05:14]] For-33 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u226	Guys, we're moving on. And the next amendment is 1394. 3rd? 4th, because Shahov doesn't insist, but Karpunz insists. 1394 amendment. People's deputy Karpuntsov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, I have a slightly different opinion. I think we can still handle the situation and we could. There is one system offered by my colleague Vlasenek. The second system I'm proposing, or I'm proposing in the amendments that we're just creating an anti-corruption court as a legal person of public law, a territorial one in Kiev, and a second legal person of public justice, is the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Then we have a lower one, and logically there is a higher one, and the intensity and independence are preserved. And we get out of this collapse again and we don't come up with a fifth wheel, I don't know, in a car or a car, and we don't violate the Constitution or our justice legislation. So I isolate the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court here and the Appeals Chamber as two independent components of justice that enable the monopolization of this justice. That's why my amendment, including 1394. I think we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u228	Can I have a comment from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u229	Well, I've, in principle, commented on the approach at all. I just want to say that we left the recommendations of the Venice Commission. You're in charge of taking the recommendations of the Venice Commission into account, aren't you? I heard all the political factions speaking this morning, all of them talking about their insistence that all the proposals be taken into account. This is one of the fundamental recommendations of the Venice Commission, this is their proposal, this is really a novelty for Ukraine. It is once again reflected in the activities of a higher intellectual property specialist who has not yet worked. And based on these considerations, the committee felt that in the second reading it was radically inappropriate to change the concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to proceed with the amendment of the 1394 People's Deputies of Karpuntsov. Please. [[13:08:02]] For-43 43 National MPs support, Your Honor, Mr. Valeria, your amendment. It's deflecting. The next is 1395, Tetjana Ritchkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u231	Nevertheless, I believe that in the event of threats to the life or health of a judge or his family, according to a judge, the Judicial Service should allow him to provide and temporarily place people at risk, endanger their lives and health. Why didn't you include it in the bill, I ask you to explain and put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a comment by the chairman of the committee. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u233	Mrs. Tetjana, we don't mind this offer. But it is true that the Court of Justice Act already provides that the Court of Justice Service itself determines how to provide security, including the provision of suitable accommodations and accommodations if needed. Because this rule, as it were, is already reflected in the main law, in the Law on the Judiciary, we find it not appropriate to duplicate it in a special law with regard to the Judicial Protection Service. There are general powers, they're going to do them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u234	Thank you. Nevertheless, Mrs. Tetjana insists on voting. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to decide on the amendment of the 1395 People's Deputy Rick. [[13:09:43]] For-33 Thirty-three deputies supported it. And the amendment is being rejected. The next amendment is 1398, and so is the national deputy to Rick. Mrs. Tetjana, 1398. Don't insist. Thank you very much. 1402. People's deputy Karpuntsov. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u235	We can't all agree with what the Venice Commission is telling us. We are a sovereign state, we have our own legislation, our own Constitution and our own laws. We're listening. We made a commitment. We're counting. But if it contradicts the Constitution and common sense. In this case, the amendment refers to the space allocation. We say it's legally the same thing, but they're going to be in different rooms, independently of each other. That's why I'm asking you to write that there's a service facility, not the High Anti-Corruption Court, but separate from the High Anti-Corruption Court, and the Appeals Chamber. If we give them, we tell them that they will have independent rooms, they will not touch each other even visually, let them be equipped independently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u236	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u237	I ask you to read carefully the part of the sixth recommended by the committee. It's about the set. "The Service House of the High Anti-Corruption Court" means that this is a service room in which the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will act as the court of the first instance, as well as a service room where the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court will operate. So as we think of it, this formula is more of a bridge that absorbs the proposal you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u238	Thank you. Colleagues, please vote for the amendment, to proceed with the amendment of 1402 People's Deputies Karpuntsov. [[13:11:50]] For-40 The correction is being rejected. 1403. National MP of the Ritchie Amendment. And please turn on her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u239	I ask part of the sixth article 10 to be edited as follows: "The offices of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption are equipped with modern security measures that guarantee the personal security of the judges, as well as the preservation of the documentation of the High Anti-Corruption Court and the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption Court, as well as the non-admission of illegal entry into these premises." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, there's already been a comment on the court premises, this block, from the committee, and we're just defining right now after the amendment of the 1,403 People's Deputy Rick. Please, colleagues, make up your mind. [[13:12:55]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. The next 1400, this is Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna and Vlastenka Sergei. Please, Mr. Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u241	Thank you. When we prepared this amendment, we also touched on the conceptual issue of the anti-corruption court system, which I have repeatedly talked about. But I would still like to draw us to what we should be talking about right now about a bunch of conceptual issues. The first is the system of courts, once. The second is the order of appointment of judges, we should speak separately in this room. And as long as we have the selection, the competitive selection will be conducted by the private property of Dusty in the form of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges and the High Council of Justice, the result of the judicial reform will be the same as in the last three years, Prašenko will not give control over the judicial system. So we need to create a competition commission that will actually conduct selection, transfer materials to the CCW, and the CCW will have the right to dissipate people, but not to add. Then these lists are passed on to Dusty, who will not have the right to add people. This will be at least a minimal attempt to obtain an independent court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for the amendment that has just been published, Amendment 1404. At the same time, the committee head argues that the substance of the amendment that we are discussing relates to another now. And the amendment's also said it's about something else, but its trailers are all about the same subject. I'm asking you to identify yourself and yet for the future about the amendments to speak, not our political ones. And start, and finish with the repairs, and inside the amendment. [[13:14:52]] For-39 39 votes for. I voted for the amendment, not for Mr. Vlasenko's political trailer. I read the amendment. If we voted in favour of his amendment, I would be against it. Nevertheless, the amendment is being rejected. And the next amendment is Amendment 1408. Don't you insist? Okay. Next amendment, 1409, Najim Mustafa. Please, Mr. Najem's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, this question was raised earlier by Mr. Pinzenic regarding related persons, loved ones, who are in other amendments. In this amendment, we propose that we fully reflect what is in the Anti-Corruption Act, but we added "independently on cohabitation." So that's how we solve the question that Mr. Pinzenik raised, which is resolved in other amendments, and we also provide security and security and family members and those who don't live together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u244	Thank you, Mr. Najem. The chairman of the committee had already commented on the position of the Committee on Protection of Family Members. We're putting your amendment to the vote. Would you like to comment? Please, the head of the committee microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u245	Mr. Mustafa, I, in principle, support your logic, but it's not even your proposal that solves the issue. For example, I explained that a brother who lives or does not live or lives is not suitable, and he is a close person. Can pressure be exerted to influence a judge? Behold, you have a brother, you know such a kind; all things happen in life. As a result, I believe that it will be right if we prepare for a second reading some really compromising option, where we predict that family members as well as those loved ones are involved and write a list of persons who are not all of them, as it was said, but all of them can receive such protection. But I would insist on what the committee says about the right for loved ones, not duty. And if such a right is considered by the Judicial Protection Service to be done, it only takes place at the time of a criminal trial for a limited period of time, it could be a few months. For example, for the judge himself, such protection will be enforced. So feel the difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u246	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to go to the direction of the 1409 National MP Mustafa Nayem, who applies again and again to the protection of family members. I'd like to make a statement. In part, Mustafa asks that his editorials be taken into account. [[13:17:43]] For-34 34 votes for the amendment. No, no, no. Your Honor, the head of the committee, do not be misled by the hall, the amendment remains as approved by the committee because. Yeah, yeah. Because this amendment was taken into account by the committee in part. Mustafa Najem, as the author of this amendment, requires a full-blown installation, has not supported it. So it is included in part, as voted by the committee. No, it's not. He put it to a vote, he can't put it to a vote, he can only put it to a vote. 1410 amendment next. However, Wesselova – no one insists? Don't insist. 1411. Please, Mrs. Ritchkova. Mrs. Rick's correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u247	I'm not going to insist, because it was partially counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u248	Please, we're in the same situation right now. The committee counted in part, the author demands full scope, and I will now give the floor to the experts of the Rules. The author requires a full range. I'll bet on a vote on Rick's amendment, please. Don't insist, I'm sorry. What amendment did you want to take? Now, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, then you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, I'm on our schedule at all. I would like to point out in advance that we do not simply go through a demonstration of the process, and on Thursday before the final vote, all the amendments that will be considered necessary will be put to the vote to be adopted in the second reading and in general, taking into account the undeclared amendments. That's the first one. And the second. I would very much like to have our esteemed reporter worry about the same thing, and the Presidium, the proposals of the Venice Commission on other laws, such as the Illustration Act. And finally, the last moment. If the amendment is partially taken into account and then requires that you place it fully and it is not supported, the amendment will take off. Keep that in mind, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u250	Thank you, Your Honor colleague Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. First. Of course, during the discussion of amendments before the vote, whenever there is such a requirement, the room returns to the amendment, discusses it, and is not voted by a skop but only by reference to the amendment. And this room will decide how. The other one. Both the chairman and the bureau point out that we take into account the positions of the Venice Commission, but at the same time, we are guided by the Ukrainian Constitution. And the third question right now, as to your other comments, I'm going to give the floor to the head of the committee. And then you, then you say the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u251	With regard to the return of amendments. I am. Andrey Volodymyrovich said it, I'll just say it one more time. Tomorrow, on the committee, we're going to propose a vision for this: whether it's going to be a return to the amendments, or whether the committee is going to propose simple formulations that need to be taken into account by those who agree. This is already a question of discussion. On account of what's taken into account in part, if we're looking at confirmation, we're taking off, I'm agreeing with you, and I said so and I insist. And given that we don't take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission and others, I want to say my position. I'm trying to count them. Moreover, during their final discussion with them, they were indignant that the Supreme Council did not want to take into account their position on integrity. You remember that they strongly opposed the separation of this institution and insisted that both the Constitutional Court and the Parliament be heard. And so I think we're going to have to be consistent in perspective and not just pay attention to that conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u252	Thank you. It was not just a discussion, it was essentially an exchange of thoughts. Please, Mr. Kuprienko raises his hand the same way. Explain what kind of correction you want to comment on, dear colleague. Well, there was.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u253	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. I'm paying attention to my colleagues and the presiding officer at the meeting. Please don’t turn it into a balagán (and smiles here). It's serious. We're doing some serious work. And before the committee chairman spoke now about the amendments that were partially taken into account, you literally said that the amendment was taken into account in part, completely put on confirmation, did not vote, so it stays in the editorial form of partial accounting. This is not the norm of the Rules. You're wrong, you don't know this rule. I'm telling you, if the amendment is true, it's not the head of the committee, it's said to Mrs. Heratchenko -- if the amendment is generally valid for confirmation and does not vote, it doesn't even partially count. So the question of how you've ironized to the experts of the Rules is I'm paying your attention. Do not violate the Rules or mislead the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u254	Very, you know, all the scariest things in the world are done with serious faces. I will allow myself to continue to apply my smile, including to the speeches of experts in the Rules. Let's move on to the amendments, dear fellows. And please, if you have any amendments, raise your hands, and do not violate the Rules, nor do you prevent us from following the amendments. We're moving on. And the amendment of 1413 of the People's Deputy Dove and Svetlana Zalitschuk, but it will be represented by the People's Deputy Dove. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u255	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now try to reconcile you with the truth. Because if this is a mistake, I think it's the committee secretariat, because it's an editorial amendment. Because I'm going to read the second reading. Paragraph 7: “For the purposes of this article, the terms ‘family members’, ‘close persons’ are used in the meaning referred to in the first part of article 1 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. That's how it sounds. And what does the correction itself sound like now, which is really expanding? So this is a matter for the committee secretariat, it's editorial. But in fact, our amendment, let me read it, and it solves all the problems that I'm proud of, the very strong reverend Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. That paragraph 7 is proposed in the following wording: "For the purposes of this article, the term 'family member' includes persons who are married, as well as their children, including adults, parents, caregivers, full-fledged brothers and sisters (honorable Ruslan Petrovich), regardless of living together, as well as other persons who live together, connected with their common life, have mutual rights and obligations (except individuals, mutual rights and duties).
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u256	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u257	".. apart from persons whose mutual rights and duties do not have the character of family), including those who live together but are not married." In fact, if we completely consider this amendment, it will completely remove all the warnings that both Victor Mikhailovich and a number of other colleagues of mine are making. Thank you, Your Honor. Please take into account. But when you look at the number of people in the room, I realize that it won't be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u258	So you insist on voting in your paper. I would like to stress once again that the committee has taken an editorial account. The amendment insists on the full application of this amendment to its authorship in the body of the law. And that's what I'm putting to the vote right now. This is for the experts of the Rules, and not exactly the experts of the Rules, for everyone. Identify yourself, please. [[13:25:49]] For-45 45 votes for. She's staying in the committee's office, because that's where the amendments were taken into account. The next amendment is the 1415 national MP, Savrasov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, I propose that article 12 be supplemented by a new part of this content: “In the interests of ensuring the personal security of the judge, of his family members, of other persons with whom such a judge has a common life or family ties, it is not possible to publish in the media information about the whereabouts of those persons.” Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u260	Thank you. I'm voting on the request of the author of Amendment 1415 of this novel. Please make up your mind, colleagues. The committee turned it down. Maxim Savrasov asks for support. [[13:26:50]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. Next is Maxim Savrasov, 1416. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u261	And a moment more attention. Please fill in article 12 with a new part of this content: “The judge, members of his family and other persons with whom such a judge has a common life shall be protected from outside listening to means of communication.” Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u262	There's a comment on the committee head. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u263	I'll, if I may, say one last sentence. The thing is, we were thinking about taking into account the report on what was forbidden in the media in any way to publish the address, the place of residence of family members, the close persons of the judge. But we understood that the discussion was long, that it was physically impossible to provide. So now the media, including the electronics all contain some kind of information. It's talk, imagine, about tens, maybe hundreds of people. And so this ban, it's going to be declarative. What will be the practice? I don't think anything is going to work at the level of any of the population points. It's not going to work. As for the second part, we predicted that any of their premises would be protected, including special systems. It is understood that special systems are also systems against foreign influences. Such systems exist. And I hope that they will be applied here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u264	Thank you. And please, I ask to be appointed after the amendment of the 1416 national MP, Saurasov. Please, colleagues. [[13:28:39]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment is also made by Maxim Savrasov, 1417. Mr. Maxime, don't you insist? You don't insist on 1417, okay. Let's move on. National MP Nemirowski, there goes your series of amendments. Please, 1420.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, I ask that article 10 be supplemented by part of the eighth sentence: "As the jury carries out its duties, the guarantees of the independence and inviolability of the judges provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges are extended." On the basis of the jury’s legitimate concern, the additional security measures defined in sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this article can be applied to him and his family both during and after the completion of the duties of the jury of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u266	Thank you. And I'd like to make my determination for Amendment 1420. Please, colleagues. The committee turned it down. MP Nemirowski is asking for support. [[13:29:51]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1421. Please, microphone to the national deputy Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u267	Again. Article 10 should be added to part nine of the following sentence: “At the time of the jury’s duties, the state budget shall pay him a reward, calculated on the basis of the salary of the local court judge, taking into account the actual time worked, but not less than the average wage at the place of principal work or the average fixed earnings.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u268	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 1421. Please, colleagues. The committee turned it down. A national MP, the author of the amendment, asks for her support. [[13:30:40]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1422, as is the national deputy of Nemirowski. 1422. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u269	Article 10 complements part of the tenth sentence: “At the time of the jury’s duties, all guarantees, benefits and compensation provided for in Ukraine’s legislation are reserved. The release of the jury or his transfer to another employment without his consent in the course of his duties in a court of law from the initiative of the owner or authority authorized by him shall not be permitted. ” Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u270	Please have a comment from the committee head. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u271	Well, that's a very good offer, we could count it if we counted the jury's institute. But since such an institution will not exist, it seems to me that there is no point in further developing this story.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u272	Please vote for Amendment 1422. The committee turned her down. The National MP insists on support. Please make up your mind. [[13:31:50]] For-24 The correction is being rejected. Next, the National Deputy of Nemirowski, 1423. Please, Mr. Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u273	I still think that these articles need to be adopted because the anti-corruption court is still unable to work. Article 10 adds part to the eleventh sentence: “The time of the jury’s duty to exercise justice is counted in the calculation of all types of work experience.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u274	Please decide on Amendment 1423. Please, colleagues. [[13:32:34]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1424, the national deputy of Nemirowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u275	I'm just wondering how the jury's gonna work without these rights. The jury is compensated for the cost of renting housing, transportation costs, passing by the court's location, in the reverse direction, as well as the cost of time in the order of their size determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These payments are made at the expense of the National Budget of Ukraine from the maintenance costs of the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anticorruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u276	Please be determined by amendment 1424. That's right, 1424. Please. [[13:33:24]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. Another amendment of the National Deputy of Nemirowski is 1425. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u277	With regard to jury employment, we continue to do so. "The employer is obliged to ensure: that the jury is relieved of their duties in the execution of justice; that information is not disclosed about the employee involved in the performance of duties as a jury and his personal data. Refusal to work is considered disrespectful in court. The disclosure of information about a worker involved in the performance of duties as a jury entails criminal responsibility. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u278	And thank you. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1425. [[13:34:20]] For-25 Thank you. 25 votes for. The correction is being rejected. We're moving on. The next one is 1427. Timoshenko and Vlasenko. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u279	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Unfortunately, once again, I'm having a complete rain with the adoption of codes, and I'm afraid that the result will be the same when laws have been adopted that no one knows how to do if we don't decide on a number of conceptual issues, such as the system of anti-corruption courts. One. The other one. If we don't solve the question of independence from the Court of Justice's Dustenk in an anti-corruption court, if we don't solve the issue of eliminating discrimination against candidates, to the judges of the Anti-Corruption Court, if we don't provide real mechanisms for monitoring the selection process by international experts, unfortunately, nothing will work. And this amendment concerns once again the system of anti-corruption courts and the possibility of creating territorial anti-corruption courts at the site of the NABU territorial units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u280	Thank you. There'll be no comment. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1427, colleagues. [[13:35:57]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment. Cooper, please, 1429. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u281	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Article 27, paragraph 10, of Part One of the Supreme Council’s Rules obliges the presiding officer to refrain from commenting and evaluating speakers and their presentations. Madam Chairman, you have repeatedly divided the Hall into experts in the Rules, not experts in the Rules, who speak with serious faces or smiles. Thus, on the basis of article 25 of the Rules, in the event of a violation by the chairman of the plenary meeting of the requirements of this Rules, and the violation of the requirements I have referred to you, the national deputy has the right to contact the presiding officer without delay with a remark that he will allow the violation to be removed immediately, as I do. And my amendment concerns the addition of the title of article 11 to the words "and protection." The table of contents of this amendment is 1450, which will be announced below. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u282	Thank you, Your Honor. I've removed the violation of the Rules and I'm not smiling. And with a serious face, I'm handing the word to the head of the committee that wants to comment on your amendment. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear Mr. Oleg, the point is that the previous article was an article on the protection and security of judges. This article is about monitoring the integrity of the judges of the High Court of Anticorruption. And so the committee felt that it was just, in fact, supported, only proposed to the wrong article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u284	Thank you for your clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask to be appointed after the amendment of the 1429 National Deputies of Laska and Kuprienka. It's a committee against it. Please do not violate the Rules, but vote now 1429. The committee refused, the authors asked for support. [[13:38:12]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1431 people's deputies Karpuntsov. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, the essence of this amendment is consistent with the concept that we've been discussing here for the last couple of hours. Still, I insist that we have a mechanism to change the concept of the law. And yet I am in favour of having the facility preserved in this court, let it be in Kiev, let it be. The jurisdiction of this court to extend to all Ukraine. But these are two independent legal persons of public law and they have to control each other's justices, and it's an appeal for the first instance not to abuse each other. And everything should be separate, so that's how it's done. I don't know, there's probably no point in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u286	Thank you for your clarification. The author does not insist on voting, but he wanted us to comment on his amendment rejected by the committee. The next one is 1432. Please, Auntie Richkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u287	Yes, that also applies to the title of article 11. I ask you to vote and put it on the next page. "Monitoring the integrity of the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court and the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court." Because the Appeals Chamber, I think it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u288	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'd like to make a statement on the amendment of 1432 of the People's Deputy Tetjana Rickova. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[13:40:03]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1434 of the Self-Help faction will be represented by Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u289	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I want to say with regard to this particular amendment, it concerns monitoring the integrity of judges. And we don't think any additional mechanisms and hooks for judges are acceptable at all, because we have law enforcement agencies, we have NAMK, we have an electronic declaration institute. So the Self-Help faction, with the amendment, suggested that this article 11 should be deleted. But because the consideration of this bill is a solid proponent, and I'm absolutely responsible for saying that because what's going on right now is the result that the committee didn't work properly with the amendments. We had to divide by sector and by question. The question of judges' architecture, the question of selection criteria, the question of international experts and their veto, the question of the appointment of judges and so on, and to identify best models to ensure the independence of this court. This is not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u290	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u291	Thank you. This was not done, and as a result, today we see 30 people sitting in the hall listening to what's really going on, and everyone else is just walking around. Because no one really needs a coalition vote for this anti-corruption court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u292	Please comment to the committee head. Still, we need a vote, coalition representatives too, there's plenty. I would like your comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u293	I have already said, in principle, and will reaffirm my respect for Mrs. Helen and that her accusations against the committee are unobjective. Because we've just proposed those amendments that relate to certain conceptual things that have been agreed with the Venice Commission as those that need to be accepted and on which, in principle, you insisted, including your faction conceptually. As for the rest, well, whether you can talk here or not, you don't think there should be monitoring for these judges, and the Venice Commission thinks there should be. Because they believe that they are people who deliberately go to a higher level, including by their own personal example and other law enforcement agencies and other judicial authorities and with the rest of society. If, God forbid, to these judges any doubt, it's likely to spread to their own decisions. To avoid that, I think that's right, it's in the interests of the judges themselves to be fully tested, not as scary dragon stuff as you say. The General and Declaration Verification Service is everything. Isn't this such an excessive thing, it's completely normal and acceptable stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u294	Finish up. You're done. Colleagues, I ask you to vote. Not put to the vote, it was just an exchange of thoughts about discussing the bill. Okay. Please, the following is 1435, this is the amendment of the National Deputies: Timoshenko and Vlasenko. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u295	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Once again, I emphasized the key thing. Guys, we need to take the law for a twig and say that we voted on a Thursday that never works. You don't have to manipulate the conclusions of the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission requires one: appointment. Independent appointment of judges. Well, including requesting the independent appointment of judges to an anti-corruption court, including. But this is one of the key requirements. And let's speak honestly and frankly, if this is going to be done through a competition by a High Qualifying Commission of Judges, which today is not independent, which today is completely in the pocket of Dustykenk, and it will be done by the Higher Council of Justice, which is now completely in the pocket of Dusty, we will have no independent anti-corruption court. Let's be honest and honest about this. And my amendment concerns the system of anti-corruption courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u296	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I also refer to the authors of the amendments: not the political slogans, but the corrections, the amendments. Just a minute. I'm not commenting, I'm just talking about the Rules, too, because everyone is instructing the Chairman of the Rules, and everyone is violating it somehow. Please vote in favour of the amendment of the 1435 national deputies of the distinguished Yulia Timoshenko and the distinguished Sergey Vlasenko, his honourable amendment, please, which the honourable committee rejected. [[13:45:06]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment, please, 1437 People's Deputies Karpuntsov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, I fully support my colleague, Helen Stotnik, that today, unfortunately, our work is like propaganda, that's all. And unfortunately, I didn't apply my potential either, I didn't have the opportunity to work on the committee, but not because Ruslan Knazevitch is so bad there, or our leadership of the state, yes, but because we're gradually turning into Janist when we're willing to sell for other people's money there, you know, our own sovereignty. Yet, this is where the reason is that there are no people here. It's not up to us, so we're not sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u298	We do not vote on your amendment. You just keep talking, I get it. Let's move on, fellows. Amendment 1441. Don't insist. 1445, Mrs. Tetjana Yuzkov. Are you insisting? Please, please. 1445. Yes, dear colleagues, please, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u299	Thank you. The proposal in my amendment number 1445 refers to being consistent. If we introduce the Civil Council of International Experts into the law, then it needs to be given the opportunity to provide information, and this information has to be responded to if the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Courts are to be examined. I ask my colleagues to support my amendment by replacing the Civil Council with the Civil Council of International Experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u300	Thank you, Your Honor. The content of the amendment is clear. Please identify the amendment for the replacement of the "Citizen Council" to the "Citizen Council of International Experts". Excuse me, there's a comment by the committee head. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u301	I'll just try to explain. The point is that the appointment of the Public Council of International Experts, unlike the Public Council of Virtue, is only, let's say, to assist the UKCC in the process of qualifying judges, future judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. All of it. And then, if they become judges, the Civil Council of International Experts cannot, as it were, be the subject that monitors their lives and their integrity, there are other subjects that are provided for by the Sudokus Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u302	Thank you for your clarification. We put to the vote the amendment by Tetjana Juzkovy, who asks for his amendment to change the words "Citizen Council of Virtue" to "Citizen Council of International Experts." I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[13:48:16]] For-19 Your amendment is being rejected. The next 1446, Karpunz's People's Deputy. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, once again, I am trying to report that we can still change the content and principles laid down in this bill, bring them into conformity with the Constitution and preserve the institutionality, not give up the sovereignty and not change the essence of the project that is. So this is the rapid formation of an institution that can effectively, independently and impartially fight such a bad phenomenon as corruption. But, well, this is a systematic solution to this question, clearly, that this vote will not change the concept, and so there is no need for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u304	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u305	Well, thank you, Mr. Valeria, for the position that he's not insisting. I can only say that if I take this particular article, there is no offensive to sovereignty. This is about monitoring the integrity and way of life of judges. I think it's an acceptable position, including the Venice Commission, which is supported by ours. I don't think anyone in this room would object to the fact that the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court should be an example of integrity and a pattern for everyone in the country in terms of, say, zero tolerance for apocryphal corruption. So I think that's the right approach to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u306	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. So the next 1447. Don't insist. 1448. Don't insist. 1449. 1450. Carpnuts, please. Oh, Kuprienka, I'm sorry, Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u307	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. This is just an amendment that confirms the need for protection. This, again, suggests that the committee, when discussing the bill, did not report the amendments. I could not explain to the committee that I was not referring to physical protection, but to the protection of the integrity of the judges. My amendment refers to a specific standard that indicates that a judge, if he has been approached and started to discuss matters that he is considering, is obliged to notify the High Council of Justice during the period. This rule is recalled with article 48, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. There's a standard. But there is no time limit for a judge to address him. In addition, in paragraph 6 of the first part of article 6 of this law, the general term is defined: "for five days." This standard makes for a stricter norm. And that will ensure that the judges themselves, everyone will know. Give me 30 seconds to finish, that's my last amendment. And everyone will know that if you go to the judge and start.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u308	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u309	Everyone will know that if you approach a judge and start talking about a matter, the time will not pass when you are interested in the relevant authorities. And that will protect the judges, protect the judges from illegal influence, whether it's a lawyer, a prosecutor or a president of Ukraine. And I insist on my amendment. I believe that it refines the law and protects judges from illegal influence. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u310	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u311	Well, Mr. Oleg himself, in principle, sounded the committee's position. Indeed, we did not in principle deny such a standard. We have just come out of the fact that it is already common in the Law on Sudokus, and within five days it determines that it is not necessarily for the fifth day, it may be for a few minutes at the same time on the first day. This depends on how the judge considers it appropriate. We're deliberate. We think we need to extend the 5-year deadline. For five days, the judge did not say that he did not have enough time physically to report. And this pressure was exerted on him. So let's not get him to say that, let's say it's a longer term, but if that's the case. That's the fact, let him react quickly. He's got that opportunity right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u312	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on the 1450 amendment. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[13:53:06]] For-37 The decision is not made. 1451. 1452. 1453. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u313	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I go back to the question that we are adopting this law neither for the Venice Commission nor for the Council of Europe nor for the International Monetary Fund. We must accept this bill in order to ensure that our citizens, the entire Ukrainian state, function as a principle of irreparable punishment for corruption, which must carry a reduction of corruption in our country. But we are now discussing not the important issues that we need to discuss. Let's say it's a question of the court system. We do not discuss it because someone has already decided that it is wrong and all. But we don't know how it's going to work, it's artificial and so on. We don't discuss the criteria for the selection of judges. We are not talking about the fact that if the model proposed by the committee is applied today, it will be controlled by Peter Poroshenko. The powder will be controlled by the proper WCC and VPP, and will control the selection of judges. Moreover, there are subjective criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u314	30 seconds. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u315	Well, I've already, in principle, explained the position. He's got it, I take it, and he has the right to express his point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u316	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 1453. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:55:02]] For-33 Thank you. The votes are broken. The decision is not made. 1454. Please, Mr. Ruslan Demczak, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u317	My amendment concerns article 11 of the Court of Justice’s Virtue Monitoring of the Supreme Anticorruption Court. In part two, after the words "Judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court," I propose that the words "by decision of the High Council of Justice" be completed at least once a year." Well, you have to figure out at least the minimum amount of application of this rule. The End Positions, and that's the way it's supposed to go every year. However, it is important to clarify who makes the decision to look after and make it mandatory and not less rare once a year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u318	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u319	Mr. Ruslan, the point is that, at the request of the Venice Commission, you know our international partners, we recommend that you delete before the second reading a reference to a psychological study called polygraph. So your revision applies to the standard that is proposed to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u320	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 1454. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:56:39]] For-28 The decision is not made. 1455. 1456. 1457. Please turn on the Juicy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u321	Yeah. I'm asking for confirmation of the amendments that are considered by the committee, namely: 1457th, 58th, 59th, 60th, 61st, 62nd and 63rd. They're the same. This is to rule out, as already explained by the distinguished Ruslan Petrovich, the possibility of using a polygraph as required by the Venice Commission to determine the integrity of the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court when they perform their duties. In my opinion, in this rule of law, first of all, there's a fairly normal definition of what's going on here, the normal mechanism, the order, the consequences and the limitations on the application of the polygraph. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u322	Please, Mr. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u323	Indeed, this is one of the positions that the Venice Commission, other international partners, insisted on, they proposed the following logic, and the committee agreed with it. The point is that they believe that a polygraph or so - called psychophysical device is a purely subjective means of examining such a psychophysical condition. And so they say that Ukraine should be consistent, because in the NABA Act and in the SAP Act, on their request, we have removed this kind of institution. He remained only in the DBR Law, and they insist that he be removed from that law. Why? Because there are a number of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that, in connection with the application of such devices, have recognized this as a violation of human rights and of the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, their position is based on the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u324	Mr. Tetjana, do you insist on voting? It's just that if this position is compromised, you don't have to go back to it. But if there is a requirement. So you're demanding, right? Please, Yuzkova, 30 seconds to go. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u325	In my opinion, there are no human rights violations in principle, because there are other consequences and for other purposes this is used. That is why I insist on putting in the notices for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-05-m0.u326	Thank you. So I'm betting each one on confirmation. I would like to point out that the committee supported them. They take into account the proposals made by the Venice Commission. And I'm asking everyone to support the editing data. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 1457. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[14:00:08]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 58th. 1458. Please be supportive. [[14:00:26]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 59th. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:00:43]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 1460. Please support me. [[14:01:01]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 1461. Please be supportive. [[14:01:19]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 1462. Please vote. [[14:01:36]] For-39 The decision is not taken. And the closing line is 1463. Please vote, please support. [[14:01:53]] For-40 The decision is not made. Now let's take a look at what kind of correction we're going to stop at. We're going to stop at Amendment 1464 of Capuntsov. And we'll start work at 4:00. Right now, according to the law, I'm forced to announce a break and interrupt our fruitful discussion, and a constructive discussion. The morning plenary session is closed. I'll have everyone in the room at 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we will begin the work of the 1464 People's Deputies of Karpuntsov. And I ask you to be in the hall and the author and, of course, the head of the committee. At four o'clock, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
