ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please call the deputies to the hall. I see a small number of deputies. Okay, I'll wait another 30 seconds, please. Guys, do you want to register? Come on, guys, let's get to the registration. So, colleagues, please register and take part in the registration. [[10:04:05]] 350 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, first of all, I want to welcome both the national MPs, and the entire Ukrainian people, with the long-awaited local Orthodox Council on December 15, and we have received our dream Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Comrades, welcome! And I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of this congregation. Years will pass, and we will remember this historic day. I welcome the newly elected chairman of the local Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Metropolitan Epiphania, and wish him strength in his service. Welcome, colleagues, everyone! I would also like to report that, tonight, the UN General Assembly adopted Ukraine's resolution "The Problem of Militaryization of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol, the Black Sea and the Azov Seas." The United Nations Gena condemned the growing military Russian presence in the Black and Azova Seas. In the text of the resolution, the Russian Federation is clearly called the occupying State. It is emphasized that the presence of Russian troops in Crimea is contrary to the sovereignty, independence of Ukraine and what is particularly important is that it undermines the security and stability of the region and Europe as a whole. The UN Genoa urges the RF to release Ukrainian ships and their crews immediately. The resolution condemns the construction and opening by Russia of the bridge through the Kerchen Strait and its actions against commercial ships and restrictions on navigation. The document urges Russia to immediately withdraw its troops from Crimea and stop the occupation of Ukraine. We all, both the Supreme Council and all Ukrainians, welcome this position of the UN General Assembly. This is another victory of Ukraine, another victory of Ukrainian diplomacy. Congratulations, colleagues. I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to perform by the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to prepare for the recording, who intends to participate in the discussion. Please record. Let's sign up, colleagues. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, today is finally the day when we, as a national team, as national MPs truly authorized by the people of Ukraine, must express our principled decision regarding the sale or non-sale of agricultural land. I think it's going to be too late in this room to tell experienced, tested time politicians who know what's behind the charts to sell Ukrainian agricultural land at a time when the country has been plagued by chaos, corruption, raiding, when agriculture is virtually destroyed, when every square centimeter of agricultural land today is struck by the Mafia, when in the last six months of the cadence of this President they want to legalize millions of hectares of agricultural land, which are written among several families in Ukraine -- I don't think for anyone that the President of Ukraine has a million hectares of agricultural land in his family, in any event formed, including through unfair procedures of hidden purchase -- and if we are national deputies in the last week before the New Year, we will not allow them to continue to be the world's most modern, independent of this country's most expensive, sovereign nation. Our peasants, our farms, our people will be deprived once and for all of the goods that will never be restored is agricultural land. And if we really want to protect the independence of our nation, its territorial integrity, its future, we are obliged to vote for a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land for at least five years. I know the plans that are in this room: vote for a year, for two. We're going to vote for it, but think about it, to put the earth in order, we're going to have to spend enough time. And to make our medium-sized agricultural enterprises strong, our farms, to make out of 20,000 farms, as in Poland, two and a half million, is a big job. And our team after the presidential election report of everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u3	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u4	the report of every hectare of land belonging to Ukrainians, processed by Ukrainians, and made profits to Ukrainians. And now it's going to be a moment of truth: who in this room is going to vote for the moratorium and who isn't? Our faction will vote for the prolongation, protecting Ukraine and Ukraine’s agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u5	From the "Rebirth Party" group, Barwinenko Vitaly Dmitrovitch is handing over to Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u6	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I think, of course, the most important question that can be resolved this week is to call on the Supreme Council of the Head of the United States of America, Mr. Koboljev, Minister of Energy of Ukraine, to hear about the real state of things with energy tariffs and the cost of Ukrainian gas and gas being purchased today by Ukraine abroad. We've done the last month's analysis of what's really going on in this area, and we really have dozens of questions for these leaders of these organizations. We're not talking about billions of dollars being written off, we're talking about what they're writing them out for, and what they're getting them for. We have a question: what's really going on in this area? Where are the 250 billion dollars that seem to show us how the three major state companies operating in the area of Ukraine’s energy dependency? The Naftogaz of Ukraine showed 1.5 billion profits. Questions. $1.5 billion in revenue. The question is, where is the money? Crushing showed $1 billion in $100 million in revenue per year. The question is, where is the money? Ukraine's gas transport system shows us $3 billion in revenue. The question is, where is the money? And most of all, the experts show and we want the House of Auditors to go to Naftogaz Ukraine and check it out, and confirm it or deny it, show that 80 companies today are selling gas to Ukraine kind of from European companies. Question: "Who are these companies?" When they began to understand how they function and who signed contracts, the information was classified. The Naftogaz of Ukraine doesn't give contracts and no one knows how and how they signed these contracts. The cost of gas under these contracts varies from $300 per thousand cubic meter to $500 per thousand cubic meter. When we look at it, it turns out that the companies, these 80 middlemen, leave over $2 billion a year. It is estimated that the sums they remain on the offshores of Europe and beyond reach up to $3 billion at the best, optimistic estimates of our experts. This is saying that if you count all of the profits of Naftogazu Ukraine, Crushing, Gas Transport and Mediation, the state loses and misses more than $8 billion that today is not clear where, and we're all paying with you for these higher prices of gas that Naftogaz Ukraine is giving us today. And in fact, there's profits there, and it's almost 250 billion dollars a year that Naftogaz Ukraine and the parts around it are pulling out of our pockets and pockets of the Ukrainian industry. That's why we need to ask this question for consideration, to call it into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u7	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u8	To call on the Supreme Council of Directors of Naftogazu and the Ministry of Energy, to allow the Audit Chamber of Ukraine to verify the real-life arithmetic around the gas of Ukrainian production, the gas that Ukraine is purchasing, the activities of the leaders of Naftogazu Ukraine, the Crushing System, the gas transport system and so on. And this will then be the answer for all of Ukraine, how real the tariffs in Ukraine have to be. And we can really go over these tariffs and lower them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u9	Thank you. May I have a word with the People's Front of the People's Deputy, Maxim Burbak?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u10	Good afternoon! The People's Front welcomes all Orthodox Ukrainians with a historic event that took place in Kiev on Saturday. Now we have the Chairman of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. And this not only shows the restoration of historical justice, but we have taken another step to strengthen our state. A period of formation begins, which requires great effort on the part of every Ukrainian. We have no right to be reckless, no enemy has stopped fighting on the church front, so the Kremlin will not give up its position. We need to be ready for provocations and innuendo is a corporate style of hostile services for which there is nothing sacred. We call on the Ukrainian Security Service to make every effort not to allow the enemy to make a diversion by covering up his church. Now, about parliamentary work. This plenary week concludes the fourth year of the work of the Supreme Council on the eighth call. It can now be said that Parliament has worked productively and the People's Front faction has played a crucial role in adopting all the breakthrough decisions of Parliament and government. The representatives of our political power have become the authors or creators of many important laws for the country, and I will count only a fraction of the laws approved this year. This is primarily the Law on temporarily occupied areas of Donbas. The law finally acknowledged the fact of Russian armed aggression, as well as the status of occupied territories in Donetsk, Lugansk, and Crimea, and the working group headed by Secretary Alexander Turchinov. Our faction colleagues have been assigned early retirement pensions for family members who died during the Dignity Revolution. It's been in operation since February. Similarly, the law of our colleague, Viktoria Sumar, has already entered into force, which foresees the permanent establishment of a disability group for those who have lost limbs and for ATO participants, on an untimely and upward basis. The Supreme Council has approved a package of laws called "No Foreign Children." This revolutionary set of laws was initiated by Justice Minister Paul Petrenko and is primarily known for increasing responsibility for malicious alimony underpaids. It was the members of the People's Front that reached the adoption of the Law on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage, which was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. The People's Front has actively supported anti-corruption reform and the creation of specialized anti-corruption bodies. We also supported the adoption of the Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. And this is the continuation of the systematic anti-corruption reform that the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk has started. At the initiative of the People's Front deputies the following year, there will be a third increase in salaries for military personnel, police and rescue workers. It's a small part of the work that the People's Front can report on. And we have every right to urge our colleagues to forget about ambitions and to stop the war to destroy each other. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u12	Political war during the electoral campaign can destroy not only all gains but also destroy our state. I emphasize, the People's Front has defended and will defend irreversible positive changes in Ukraine, we will protect the state and our course to the EU and NATO. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u13	Thank you. From "The Opposition Block" to "The People's Deputy of Wilkul" is invited. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u14	Dear people of Ukraine, the last working week of the Council began this year. In fact, the sum total of this work is felt by every person when he sees prices in shops and pharmacies when he's looking for money to pay for a utility. During this month, I went halfway through Ukraine, from Kiev to Odessa, Kharkiv and Mariupol, and held dozens of meetings. And people have questions that I'm going to ask on their behalf right now. Instead of restoring peace, why does the country’s leadership earn money in war? Do not national deputies and government members have elderly parents and relatives who have raised their gas tariffs 10 times by raising their utility? Who raised those who deprived the benefits of the Chernobyl and Afghans and forced millions of Ukrainians to survive on meager pensions and wages? The good news is that this composition of the Supreme Council is short - lived, and the next year the people will place their assessment of it in the elections. Most of those present today will not be in the next room. In fact, there is everything in Ukraine to have a strong economy worthy of life, worthy of wages and worthy of pensions. We have educated people, factories, factories, agriculture. Ukraine is not a poor, poor country. We are a deluded and defrauded country. A strong economy, high pensions, decent wages, a decent standard of living — all you have to do is want and work. We passed 149 bills. Peace, economics, industrial development, social support, support for people -- no one is accepted! But they will be accepted after our victory in the elections. People see that we are the only real opposition to poverty and war. Even in spite of the enormous pressure and fabricated criminal cases, we are fighting for human rights, and through the Constitutional Court this year, we have abolished the criminal imposition of a pension tax, we have restored the benefits to the Chernobyl community, which now does not include the Cabinet of Ministers. During this week, we demand that our Law on a Moratorium be adopted for sale. This issue is to be settled by the people themselves in an all - Ukrainian referendum. We have passed Bill 9355-3 and we demand its adoption. We demand that Parliament take an order to cancel the decision of Kabmin to increase gas tariffs and our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u16	And our bill to lower tariffs to an economically sound level. And one more thing. Until the end of this incomprehensible state of war, a week remained. And a week later, the leadership of the country and the power organs have to report why it was done, why they were again intimidated and bullied by people, why they had a devastating blow to the economy that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Please welcome Oleg Lazko, leader of the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We're discussing the land, and I'm convinced that Parliament will vote and continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land because when the authorities deceive Ukrainians, that the land market will bring happiness in the village, -- lie, happiness will give the latifunda to the international capital, Ukrainian peasants will be ousted and released around the world with an outstretched hand. That's why our team initiated changes to the Constitution to write in article 41 that the basic agricultural structure of Ukraine is agriculture, solely for the support of a national producer: a Ukrainian farmer, a single Ukrainian farmer. A Family Farm — From Whom the State Should Support! And the government doesn't sign the IMF memorandum: give the land, give the forest, give the pension age up, sell the gas three times, and then, as the Germans exported the land and the abbeys during the war, the actual thing is, the land is being exported and the wages are millions abroad. I saw a government meeting yesterday in Brussels. Association with the European Union. What is the main question? The demand for Ukraine to cancel our moratorium, which we have breached in this Parliament in spite of the President's position, is a ban on unprocessed forests from Ukraine. I'm talking to the Ukrainians: what's going on? Why did the authorities turn the country into an orphan colony today, when both the land and the forest, and the metal industry, give everything to the world? And then they say we can't live without the IMF's loans. How can we survive when raw materials are traded instead of making their own money? So I want to warn the government that no land, no forest, no metal, no grain, we're not giving anything away. We will radically change economic policies: restoring our own economy, raising citizens' well-being, raising wages so that wage earners can go back home -- that will allow them to give up loans and lower gas tariffs. For 500 years in Ukraine, coal reserves We buy $3 billion of Ukrainian-Russian coal, and Ukrainian miners starve to death because they don't pay their wages for months. Four trillion tons of known gas reserves. We're buying imported gas because the authorities are making corruption revenues on it, and the Ukrainians are paying the last money to pay for gas and utilities. 2 billion tons of scouted peat stocks, and we're buying from abroad, creating jobs for our imported competitors. It's time to stop this policy! The new year is hope, it's the ability of new policies to conduct, it's the ability to make a better country. Let's make it better. Let's stop going around the world, waiting for someone to do something for us, we have to do it for ourselves. Good luck in your country for the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Please welcome me from the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u20	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear lady presiding, dear Ukrainians! The creation of the only local Ukrainian Orthodox Church is an unconditionally huge historical event. And it is the merit of all the clergy and many generations of Ukrainians who have unreservedly chosen this right. But why is this important historical event so brutally used today by the president of the country? Not to cover up poverty, for during the Presidencies, Ukraine became one of the poorest countries in Europe. The great vote of confidence that the Ukrainian people gave to the President of Ukraine in the wake of Russian aggression is unfortunately lost. The time that would have been wasted would have gone on to undertake genuine economic structural reforms that would have had a tangible and social economic impact by the fifth year of the presidency. What's really going on with the country's economy? Debts on wages are rising. Since the beginning of this year, they have grown to more than half a billion dollars. Unemployment is on the rise, and despite the massive labour migration that Ukraine is experiencing today, the number of unemployed has increased by 30,000 in November alone. At the same time, the government is failing its own plan to collect a single social contribution. And if we don't take another look at the pension deficit of Ukraine, that means that there's an increased risk of delay in pension payments already next year. And this, my friends, is the real verdict of the so-called unseasoned pension reform of Groysman. The gold reserves are shrinking, the negative trade balance is growing. And that means that our economy is becoming even more import-dependent, and so the pressure on the national currency will only increase. The negative trade balance on October is almost eight billion dollars, and according to government forecasts, the situation is only going to get worse. And that's because 2019 is a year of peak payments on loan. Over 400 billion dollars -- that's exactly what the Ukrainians have to pay next year. The government should react immediately, stimulate the development of those sectors of the economy that are really ready to generate economic growth, reduce business pressure, stimulate job creation. Only the real growth of the Ukrainian economy by 5-7 percent or more of GDP can provide minimum social needs. Instead, it is clear to all Ukrainian citizens today that the government is not able to govern the state. Dear Ukrainians, I am addressing you first, next year is a unique opportunity for all of us, in a peaceful constitutional way, to choose a new power, to choose a new President, who will truly serve people, to choose a new Supreme Council, which, along with the new government, will give us real social and economic freedoms, which will lead this country from a country of poor people who are run by oligarchs to become a middle-class country with a powerful economy. This is our chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u21	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u22	This is our chance in a peaceful way to change the situation, to remove people who have ruled this country for decades and made it Europe's poorest country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u23	Thank you. And from the Peter Prashenko Block, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u24	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, last week has remained in the country’s history by creating the only independent Orthodox Church in Ukraine. Ukraine continues to claim to be a self - assuming state, finally coming out of orbit of Russian influence. The creation of the only independent Orthodox Church of Ukraine goes far beyond purely religious. This is part of the Ukrainian strategy, the strategy of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine to strengthen the national security and unity of the Ukrainian people. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka warmly welcomes the Chosen One at the United Council of the Metropolitan of Kiev and all Ukraine of Epiphania and looks forward to the sacred moment of receiving Tomos. Convincedly, anyone who has made an effort to proclaim Ukraine’s spiritual independence has already put his name on the pages of national history, and those who have persuaded members of the Synod of the Universal Patriarchate not to give Ukraine Tomos, history, and the Ukrainian people will also give their firm assessment. Next. The Ukrainian diplomatic front, led by President Peter Prashenko, continues to maintain the unity of the civilized world for sanctions and political pressure on the Kremlin. Last week, the European Union continued its sanctions for the failure to implement the Minsk Treaties by the Kremlin. New personal sanctions were granted to officials involved in the so - called elections in the occupied area of Donbas. The civilized world unites to respond harshly to the Kremlin’s act of open military aggression against Ukraine near the Kerchen Strait and demands the immediate release of Ukrainian prisoners of war. The return of the Crimea to Ukraine is once again on the top of the global security agenda. President Peter Poroshenko also signed an agreement with NATO in the field of demining for the practical implementation of the law that was approved by Parliament. It will help to clean up the area of Donbas and will primarily strengthen the protection of millions of civilians and especially children affected by this scourge. Dear colleagues, I have just returned from the cities of Volnovah and Mariupol in the Donetsk region. There was a very symbolic event there yesterday. With the support of the wife of the President of Ukraine and the Prashenka Foundation, tens of thousands of English textbooks, algebra, physics, chemistry, and Ukrainian literature have been passed on to the students of the schools in the Donetsk region. I would like to thank Marina Anatolyevno for helping the children of Ukrainian Donbas and for the firm fulfillment of the promise she made to her students and teachers during her previous visit to the area. In the last plenary week of the year, we need to focus on strengthening security and defence, adopting important bills in agricultural and energy fields, and we need to pay particular attention to the adoption of the law on lawyers and legal activities. The bill has been called upon not only by numerous members of the legal community but also by legal defenders and the Council of Europe. And finally. By the end of the year, we need to close the matter from the appointment of our colleagues to the Committees of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. And here is the invitation of the national deputy Eugene Ribczynski of the "Will of the People" Group. The card did not work when writing statements from groups and factions. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u26	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv Gentlemen, there really was a historic victory. No, we did not get the annexed Crimea back, unfortunately the war on Donbass did not end, and the four did not cut the tariffs on gas, but the Ukrainian churches united. On Saturday there was an event, I would say, not just historical, but epochical. Because without ideological, without mental independence, there is no other independence. As the founders of the political economy said, they said that if the base of the country did not work with the superstructure, i.e. with ideology, then the whole economy, i.e. the base, worked on another's ideology. And, in fact, our economy was working on the ideologies of a stranger -- our northern neighbour. They called out all our gas from the Ships, from the Shebelina, and now they're selling gas in the tricycle and pumping gas into Europe. But it's not about that, it's about mental independence. Finally, the Ukrainian churches came together. Now, in truth, there will be a small case in Minsk, since the Ukrainian Orthodox churches are already several. Instead, the national deputies made a number of decisions. I think we're going to consider them today or on Thursday, which is going to confirm historical justice, that is, the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine call their name -- not the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (in coffee) (MP) of the Moscow Patriarchate, but, as it really is, the Russian Orthodox Church, in which, among other things, we have been in the last time. But from the moment Tomos is received, our church will enter the family of truly Orthodox nations, 15 Orthodox world churches will enter the 16th, or Ukrainian Orthodox Church, and historical justice will prevail. In fact, the Russian patriarch, or "pachanate", had the largest number of incomes in Ukraine. It's a miracle they have fewer Orthodox revenues in Russia than in Ukraine. I think that the historical event that took place on Saturday will be so important that perhaps our vocation will be remembered by the fact that we once put this process into effect. And another short one. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality will be held tomorrow in connection with the Language Act (5670-d). I really hope that we're still in this plenary, in this session, more faithfully, we're going to adopt the Language Act in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u27	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have completed our speeches by MPs and factions. And now we're moving into the agenda, and today we have enough. And the first issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for illegal acts in relation to State awards, the illegal wearing of military clothing and the abuse of the place of burial of the defender of sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and some others (Law No. 9217). And I very much ask my colleagues, considering that we have a very busy agenda, to support the proposal of the drafters of the bill to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to support me. Colleagues, please support the summary procedure. [[10:37:05]] For-73 Dear colleagues, it's my fault as chairman that I didn't invite the deputies who might be here right now. Now, don't break up, please! - which are now in the towers. Please return to the session room. We're moving on to the agenda, all the speeches are over. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, it's very simple, and you see a list of laws that are in order of the day. If we enter into an hourly review, we will not be able to consider a number of laws. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that we have after the security and defence bloc to bring into order all the issues that envision the extension of the moratorium on land. And accordingly, if we go into the hourly consideration, we can just get to this chapter at a time when there's no MP concentration. I think it would be right for everyone to vote in favour of a reduced procedure right now. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall, and please support everyone. That'll be wise, colleagues. The bill that stands first is unifying and unwarranted among the deputies. Please. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Liability for Unlawful Action in respect of State Awards, the illegal wearing of military clothing and the abuse of the place of burial of the defender of sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine and some others (No. 9217) we have considered a reduced procedure. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, support this will be correct. [[10:39:37]] For 109 All right, let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Since 2014, we have suffered aggression from the Russian Federation. And Ukraine’s defenders, who have defended our country, allow us to boldly plan our present and to dream about the future. We have taken many important steps in this Parliament to protect our military personnel, protect and strengthen the social protection of our military personnel and their families. This bill proposes to improve the responsibility of those who try to mimic our country's defenders without having the right to do so. And he wears both military uniforms with distinguishing marks and medals that he did not deserve, win, and have no right to. And we are saddened to see that society sometimes treats such individuals with respect that they do not deserve. This bill proposes to do two things: to strengthen administrative responsibility for those who use the form of clothing, distinctions, medals they have no right to; the second, to strengthen criminal responsibility for those who abuse the dead defenders of Ukraine, not only those who have died on the front line, but also those who have died here on the Mayday of Independence, during the event of the Godliness Revolution. By tracking the trends of the Fifth Column, of the ignorant who are coming out of the Russian peace, we have seen that there have already been some 35 cases when the graves were destroyed, both by the defenders of our country and by those who died during the Dignity Revolution, and they have almost no responsibility. This has to be done. What does this bill propose? And I would like to relieve the tension of those who respect as camouflaged dress and pain for not being deprived of such a right. To understand what we are talking about: first of all, the use of that form of military clothing that is set in our military formations defined by law, the rewards that are determined by our legislation. And so all those hunters who use camouflage can continue to use them to prevent them from using the established marks of distinction, the Shevrons of the military, the prize boards, the medals, and so on during everyday wear. Why it is vital that our session room today has the full consolidation of these political powers, regardless of their views and their attitude toward the Ukrainian authorities. Now the question of our respect, our respect for our defenders, and our prejudice towards those who try to cheat on our society's high standards. So I'm very much asking now all the national MPs who are in the towers to return to the session hall, to come to the consideration of this bill. And I urge the National Deputies to vote on this bill in the first reading. I want to thank my colleagues at the Committee on Law Enforcement for taking this opportunity. During the discussion of the bill, a number of good points were made that improve it. And that's why I can see that there shouldn't be a problem with his acceptance. Please join everyone in reviewing the bill and voting on it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, three minutes, a question to the reporter. Anyone who intends to ask a question, please record. You're arguing. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u31	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, the bill in question long ago should have been considered, as they say, long ago we should have put it into effect, because it really is quite positive. First of all, the main thing is really, as the reporter said, it's respect for our defenders. But I have the following question. How do you count, of course, the identifying marks they're going to give effect to, but I still don't think there's going to be any speculation here, in this direction, and most people don't understand these identifying signs? That's the first one. And secondly, did it not have the responsibility of those who did not comply with your bills, or did it not have the responsibility of these people who would not abide by the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. We've actually studied the experience of other partner countries in how they address the issue of respect for military clothing and for those who work in the security sector. And as we studied this experience, we saw that in both the United States and Estonia, and also on different continents, the corresponding standards of responsibility are established, and they are administrative. It's okay. as a percentage of the fine and as a criminal even liability, up to six months in the United States. Given the standards we set, we took into account that the standard of administrative responsibility cannot be less than the cost of that set of military uniforms that, for example, is purchased by the Ministry of Defense to deploy military personnel. And that's why in this context we've optimized the size of the fine so that it doesn't reduce the cost of clothing that any citizen can use for purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u33	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u34	In order for him to use unattainable properties. That's why we think it's the least appropriate form of punishment for the Administrative Code. And for the Criminal Code, there we strongly want to punish all those who destroy the monuments, plunder the graves of unknown or well - known military personnel, as well as members of the Dignity Revolution. It's unacceptable to have a lower standard of punishment. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u35	Thank you. And the final question is Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u36	Please pass the word to John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u37	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, on the first question, I really got a positive answer. And that's exactly how it is, and I think "Peter Prashenko's Block" is going to vote in favour of the bill because it's necessary. And at the same time, I wanted to hear more and more about the destruction of the monuments. Well, perhaps again there should be an increasing responsibility, for we see this abuse, we see the abuse of monuments, we see the abuse, indeed, of our soldiers who are no longer dead, but at the same time it is, especially in the east of our Ukraine and so forth. That's why I'd like you to give an answer after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u38	Thank you for that question, it's very important, because during the discussion we actually went back to him. At the same time, I would like to thank the public organization Legal Hundred who helped the copyright team to work on this bill. What have we done about punishing those who destroy monuments? In addition to improving the existing article, we have added individuals who have protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and have participated directly in the anti-terrorist operation, in measures to ensure national security and defence, in the interception and deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, in the Dignity Revolution, in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the twentieth century. We suggest that we punish for a term of three to five years or for the same term. And all those norms that regulated the destruction of the brother's grave or the grave of the Unknown Soldier, a monument built in memory of those who fought Nazism in World War II, Soviet liberators, guerrillas, subversives, victims of Nazi persecution, internationalist soldiers and peacekeepers, all of this remains in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u40	So I'm asking everyone to return to the session room right now. It is vital that we adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u41	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement examined the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Liability for Unlawful Acts in respect of State Rewards, the Unlawful Clothing of Military Form, Clothing and Abuse of Local Buryers of Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine and Some Others (Registration No. 9217). The bill proposes a new edition of article 186-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences, including the establishment of responsibility for such activities as the wearing of an order, medals and so forth for a person who has no right to do so. To supplement Ukraine's Code of Administrative Offences with a new article 186-8, which establishes administrative responsibility for the illegal wearing of military uniforms, clothing with signs of distinction between members of the Armed Forces of Ukraine or other legal military formations by persons who do not have the right to do so. Foresaw criminal responsibility for desecrating or destroying a monument built in memory of persons who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and took direct part in the ATO, taking steps to ensure national security and defence, intercepting and deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, members of the Dignity Revolution and fighters for Ukraine’s independence in the 20th century. In view of the fact that military conditions have been introduced in certain areas of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens should clearly distinguish where there is a military officer and where the person who wears military uniforms does not have the right to do so. The committee also approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, Mr. Mikola, for more questions. Please, three minutes is a question to the co-rapporteur. Please hold the recording.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u44	No questions asked. It's all clear, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u45	So one question. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u46	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. This is an extremely important question, and there is no question today. Well, there's no one else on board. in order to give a proper answer from the rostrum. But at the same time, first of all, I would like to thank the committee, which, in fact, has considered such a fair question that we should support together. But I would like to ask you a question. From chi. What statistics do you have about such wrongdoings? Is it already? Have you considered on the committee this statistic as to how many such offenses there are: bearing and destroying monuments and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u47	Yes, of course, such statistics were provided by the committee to the author of the bill. We did. Statistics are, frankly, weak, because they probably struggled poorly with this type of wrongdoing. But statistics are, and I think that today, by improving this bill, we are giving more opportunities to work with law enforcement authorities to detect such violations, to identify them and to hold them accountable for the villains who stain our state and attribute them to themselves as illegal wearing orders, medals, as well as special titles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. There are no more entries on the question, you can take your place. And, colleagues, you are now speaking from factions and groups, and I am asking everyone to have a very brief discussion. And please record who intends to speak from factions and groups. Please. From the People's Front, Savka Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you at this time. In our country, when fighting, during the war, many people, so-called people, are in parentheses, trying to show in society that they are heroes, that they are soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And by themselves, they wear uniforms, they dress orders that are produced incomprehensiblely under which the appointments of civil organizations have no bearing on the state. To the state. So I would like to name this basic law, thanks to those people who have done their utmost to have the bill formally adopted at this time, this law is in order to raise the image of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in order to raise the authority of the Armed Forces of Ukraine during the course of the war. So, dear colleagues, I call on you, and the People's Front calls on everyone to take part in the vote. We'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u50	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u51	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will support this bill because our leader, Oleg Lazko, and our entire party, have stood up for overcoming chaos and anarchy in Ukraine. Let's not assume that when private armies wear military weapons in times of war, they take businesses, they move land into farmers, they take crops, they attack Medusa according to the direction "Doctor of Death" as it did with the Institute of Hearts. And our faction, and Oleg Lazko, we support Boris Todurov, a well-deserved doctor who is now being attacked by a lady with an unclear past and an even more uncertain future. At the same time, yesterday in Odessa there was a meeting of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the murder of Catherine Gandzük and public activists, attacks on public activists. And this meeting was attended by 70 men in military uniform. It's not clear who, unknowablely, they were going to say that, whose private army it is and so forth. This is unacceptable. People in military uniforms enter the building. A colleague of Ribczynski approached them and asked, "Which one of you is involved in the fighting?" Of the 70 people, 8 were found to be involved in hostilities. Questions. What moral and legal right do people have to wear military uniforms, some rewards of incomprehensible origin, beat themselves in the chest and shout that they are Ukraine's defenders, even though the south were not on the front line? So it's a very important bill, and I would urge my colleague not to go around the towers, the buffets, but to go back to the hall and support a bill that is a little bit of a step, but a step on the way to bringing order, restoring justice in the Ukrainian state, where the Radical Party of Oleg Lazka stood and stood. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u52	From Barna's Peter Dust Block, turn on the microphone. Oh, from the rostrum. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u53	Praise Jesus Christ! There is no way that a military form that is a symbol of the defender of our country, as well as a national reward that is a symbol of heroism and sacrifice in the protection of our land and the nation, the Ukrainian people, are used by some questionable persons for useful purposes, for raiding, for illegal activity. Unfortunately, that's what even in my Ternopolska, when certain people called volunteers, and know where they were, when they were without the license of a participant in combat, and it turns out that they were raiding, demanding, more than that, they were slandering actual ATO warriors. Therefore, it is clear that respect for the defending soldiers of our state must be shown primarily in respect for the institution of the state, in respect for the wearing of military uniforms, in respect of the prizes of the state that were earned in the battles that were earned by the blood and sacrifice of our warriors. And in order not to disprove their meanings, we need to put order in the use of these State rewards, in the use of military uniforms, and not allow in any way random people, the personality of questionable behavior, to use these State symbols for useful purposes. That's why I'm asking my fellow MPs to support this bill. The Peter Prashenko faction unanimously supports this bill and refers to its brothers, true, true ATO warriors. Be honest, brothers, be fair, be just! You are a model of the honor and dignity of our people! Be like this, not used. And we will surely win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u54	And a closing statement from the factions. From "Fatherland" Olena Schrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u55	Good afternoon, colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, what does this bill say that I have the privilege of being a co-author? It's actually quite simple, and I thank the committee for looking at it so quickly and being able to take it to the hall for today. In fact, he tells us that we need to increase our responsibility for miscarrying State rewards, military uniforms, and abuse of the graves of individuals who have defended Ukraine’s territorial integrity and independence. To this day, you'll be surprised, but the Code of Administrative Offences has no norm on the illegal carrying of military weapons and the abuse of graves, in fact, those of our heroes who have protected us with you since the first days of the war and continue to protect us with you. My B.P.P. colleague asked about state statistics whether they were running or not. Regrettably, there are no statistics at this time on the number of illegal prize - bearers or military weapons, but there are exactly hundreds of such cases, according to media reports. Also, more than 35 cases of media abuse of the tombs of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 are just the Heroes of the Celestial 100. And it is clear that such responsibility must be established, and it must be adequate in relation to the crimes that may take place today. In Ukraine we propose this responsibility to carry out today from 850 to 1,700, a bracelet plus a potential confiscation of an appropriate illegal reward, illegal to carry out military uniforms, and a re-introduction of such a crime is a more serious, of course, responsibility. Compared with other countries, and we have studied the experience of foreign countries, these issues have been dealt with very seriously because this is, indeed, a violation that violates the holy memory of our heroes who protected us, and generally on national independence, and on the morals that our citizens must have. In fact, in Australia, for example, a fine for the illegal wearing of a single - to - $5,400 medal. In Belgium, illegal medals or military uniforms - 1,000 euros, in Canada - 2,000 dollars, in Estonia - 2,000 euros plus public repairs, in Poland - 235 euros and more. Clearly, then, this law is necessary. At the same time, however, we need to understand that sanctions will not help and will not be the only aid against such crimes and against the illegal carrying of military weapons. Because, unfortunately, today, the clan-oligarchy feudal system created by this authority in Ukraine is contributing to the fact that our heroes are not wearing medals and the military form they have the right to wear, protecting ours with you, and carrying these illegal criminal groups often to raid the land, to attack the lives and health of the public activists, to engulf them with the acid of our most active citizens, to beat them, to kill them, to raid the Aythian companies. And unfortunately, this clan-oligarchy system has to be destroyed in order to finally have the rule of law and law, not the rule of power. Thank you. Colleagues, please support this bill. And "Paternity," of course, will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u56	Thank you. So, colleagues, statements from factions and groups are complete. It's six minutes for the national MPs. And we're going to move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to do the recording. And in six minutes, I'd like to ask all the national deputies to come to the decision-making room. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u57	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Lapin Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, lately, my brothers and I have been thinking personally, I don't want to be an attaché. Already so discredited our form, already so discredited that so many people say, "Yes, I'm a soldier, but I don't want to be an attaché." Because already, you know, it's a word like that at all the rallies, it only leads to a negative on the incomprehensible devices. Today, we have the greatest confidence in the church and the army, our soldiers, who protect our borders from the aggressor. So I ask everyone to support this bill in order to: (a) first, take and clear this field of discreditation of the Armed Forces and our military forces; and secondly, we need to bring the order in that sense, including the wearing of military prizes. You know, I've seen quite a lot of people at a rally that even with the Chevrons of my battalion came to a rally with "connosts," sorry at the word, on the chest. These people haven't been on the front for a day or so. These people have never even been in the Armed Forces, and they don't even know what it is. But, nevertheless, they go out with the Chevrons of the Battalions, with the Shevrons of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in uniforms, and they talk about what kind of heroes they are, and then you look at them -- and they're all so tearfully asking for help in the passersby, just by their one appearance already creeping out our soldiers. So I'm asking very, very honourable colleagues to support this bill so that once and for all we can bring about an order in this sense and give impetus to further improvements to our legislative framework in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u59	Thank you. So, colleagues, now the closing statement is Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich. And then we move on to making a decision. Once again, I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite the people's deputies into the Hall and the factions' heads to invite all the deputies into the Hall, and in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please. Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u60	Good day to you all! Colleagues, I invite everyone to take their seats and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you all very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u61	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I would like to point out that during the presentations, all the factions and all those who spoke from the deputies expressed their unanimous support for the draft Law 9217. And I am sure that we will be able to unite the hall during the vote. Please prepare yourself for making decisions, taking up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Responsibility for Unlawful Action in respect of State Rewards, the Unlawful Clothing and Abuse of the Place of Burial of the Defender of Sovereignty and the Territorial Integrity of Ukraine and Some Other Persons (No. 9217). And I would like to emphasise, it's only suggested that we take it as a basis. Based on the base. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Colleagues! Andrew Volodymyrovich! Stop the discussion in the hall. You can't have a vote without you. Colleagues, take up jobs. Be gentle, for Santa will not bring gifts. So let me vote. Please support 9217 as a base. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:10:41]] For 209 We didn't make it. I'm going to make an offer to return, you'll have time for that period to gather deputies from your factions. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 83, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 3, Self-Help – 9, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 12, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 8, non-fractional – 21. Postfractions give more than factions. So, colleagues, if you'd like to take a seat, please come into the hall. Colleagues, attention, the first vote will be back to the debate, and then we'll move on to the decision-making process. Take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 9217, and I'm asking you to support and vote. Colleagues, we vote unanimously, we vote unanimously. Please support the return, we vote. [[11:12:13]] For 230 So we're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 9217 on the ground. Please vote, and I ask you to support, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[11:12:42]] For 229 Decision taken. So let's move on, fellows, let's work harder now, let's move on to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's military standards laws (8370). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote and support the reduced procedure, we vote. [[11:13:15]] For-147 I'll do it again, colleagues. Please take up jobs. Once again, draft Law 8370, in short, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:13:40]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Brovchenko Yuri Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u62	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the bill has been drafted by the Mine Economic Development Act to ensure the maximum compatibility of the Ukrainian Armed Forces with the NATO Armed Forces through the implementation of the North Atlantic Alliance standards. The bill amends Ukraine's laws on defence of Ukraine and on standardization, which allow for the establishment of military standardization, the mandate of the Ministry of Defence to determine the body of military standardization from the number of subordinate military authorities. The primary function of the military standardization body will be to develop, adopt, abolish, restore, distribute and implement military standards, including those developed on the basis of NATO standards and standards in the defence of NATO member states. This is in line with the internationally recognized practice of NATO member states when standards in the military sphere are accepted by institutions whose powers belong to the defence and security of the state. The adoption of the bill will provide the basis for the introduction of NATO policies in the field of military standardisation in Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u63	Thank you. The National Security Committee Secretary Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u64	Good morning, dear fellows! It is wonderful that the second round of the plenary week begins with questions of security and defense. At the moment, it's about NATO one more time. In fact, there is a lot going on on the air and in legal and legal discussions of the term "NATO standards." At the same time, we have no definition of what NATO standards are. In fact, we thank the Cabinet for this initiative, when the Ukrainian Defence Act and the Standardization Act introduces terms related to NATO standards. In addition, the Ministry of Defence is defined as the central body of executive authority that will work out the substance and content of these standards and agree with them and coordinate with NATO is absolutely right. And in addition, we're introducing some legal definition, because it opens the way for us to sort out some kind of bureaucracy that's currently extremely bulky and exists in the Ministry of Defense's system for the creation, acceptance of weapons, the provision of new weapons standards, in general, weapons samples. So defining terms like "standards" and taking responsibility for their work, meeting NATO standards there, is the way to reform in this area. The committee has considered it, and we understand that although the project is small, it has some nuances that need to be developed for the second reading. So we ask our colleagues to support us in our first reading and to send us to the committee. So I'd like to go to all the political forces in the session room that want to integrate Ukraine into NATO, especially the Peter Poshenko Block, and the People's Front, the Radical Party, the Fatherland and Self-Help to support this project, and send it to the committee. I hope that other members of the other groups will also support: "rebirth," "will of the people," and perhaps other deputies responsible for the country's fate. Thank you. The first reading is based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u65	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the People's Front, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u67	From "The Fatherland" Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovitch. Gives the River a word for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u68	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction has consistently supported Euro-Atlantic and Euro-Integration Bills, which move our country more towards NATO standards, to European standards. But NATO, like joining the European Union, is not just standards, it's not just a tape in the Constitution, it's real action, it's real steps and, another thing, it's quality legislation. This bill gives the Ministry of Defence certain powers regarding the provision of regulatory provisions. What do we read in the conclusion of the GNEU? That the bill is not very good because the terms "military standard", "NATO standard", "the defence standard of a NATO member state" etc. require further development because they are all different because of the term "standard", which in turn requires further disclosure. What's more, we're reading that the Genstalb of the U.S.S.A. doesn't support the adoption of the bill, and the flaws in this project are not included in the 21 draft law that Genstalb considers relevant and recommends adoption. And in general, when he looked at the text of the bill, he was preparing not for the Ministry of Defence, but he was preparing for the Director of Technical Regulation of the Ministry of Economics and Development of Ukraine. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, like all other NATO-related bills. Yulia Timoshenko is consistently pursuing this policy, and as Prime Minister, as presidential candidate in 2014, we were conducting a policy on a referendum before joining NATO, we were holding a large military forum, a security forum that. have consistently assured our military support and accession to NATO. However, NATO is not just such bills, which unfortunately are inconvenient, which we will be working on for the second reading, but not just the adoption of NATO standards. And think about it: the fourth year of war -- we're adopting legislation on NATO standards. It's just a bill that says that Nativity standards should be introduced, no steps, no real action for the fourth year of war. The Fatherland faction will support it. The government needs to prepare more quality drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u69	So, colleagues, this is the closing act. And then we go to the vote. So in two minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies into the hall, and in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. It's a closing statement from Peter Dustock's Block. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u70	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I ask you to pass the word to Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill is very important, important in terms of what we have consistently, in parallel, to take all necessary steps to change our army according to NATO standards. This bill is proposed for adoption as a basis. This means that all suggestions or comments will be accepted. in the next paragraph in the second reading. It is also important to take these steps in the Constitution. Why? Because today the work of all branches of power -- both the President and the Parliament -- and, accordingly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will produce this result. And education, and the specific things that are happening today. education has our military -- this is all the movement that shows that today the vector of Ukraine -- is for Euro-Atlantic integration. Parliament should report directly accordingly. Parliamentary diplomacy and our delegation to the NATO Assembly is an important work that will show results today. But clearly, without the adoption of a series of security laws, laws that will help reform the Ukrainian army today, we will not be able to move forward. There is nothing perfect and, for the first time, Ukraine is making the will necessary for the State. They're unforgivable, sometimes it's to break the system that was involved. Today, it is up to us to see how our nation moves, how we are responsible, and how we can make decisions here. It is vital that we be united here and give the necessary result for the start of needed reforms in Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u72	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to return to the hall. Colleagues who are in beds, return to the hall. And we're going to the vote. I'm stressing that there really is a warning, but we only take it as a basis. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is proposing to adopt this law, the draft law on the basis. Let us therefore vote and unite. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on military standards (No. 8370). This is a law to support NATO standards in Ukraine. Please vote everyone, please support me as a basis. Vote. Vote. [[11:23:50]] For a hundred and I'll be back. Go back to the hall, please. Eighteenth, in the hall. I'm going to read by factions to promote who really supports Ukraine's accession to NATO. Peter Poshenko's Block – 78, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 9, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 13, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 7, non-fractional – 13. Fellows, by delaying the consideration of issues, we may not be able to make it to the break to switch to the "inclusion in the order of the day session" block. I therefore request that during the vote we be in the hall so that we do not go back a few times before considering matters. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. The first vote will be for the return. So you're ready, right? The first vote is to return to draft Law 8370. And I ask everyone to return to their seats and vote. Colleagues at the door, please come back. Shahov! So we vote for the return. We vote, we go back to the law. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:25:56]] For 214 Dynamics positive. Fellows, look who's not around and invite you to the hall. I'll be sounding the factions again. Block of Petra Poshenko – 83, National Front – 63, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 10, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 13, Will of the People – 1. There was two. Shahov, go back to your seat, do you support NATO? "Rebirth Party" is 7, non-fractional is 19. So, colleagues, every vote is missing. Colleagues, I very much ask everyone to take up jobs from the government and guest beds to return to the hall. So, colleagues, please all mobilize. Secretariat, invite the deputies to the hall, who are in the towers. And I'm going to be the first to come back, and then I'm going to be the basis. So you're ready, right? I am voting back on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on military standards (8370). Please vote and support. Mr. Victor, we count every vote, please, Eugene! Voting, supporting. Please be supportive. Please vote. We'll vote for it, responsibly. [[11:27:52]] For 216 Ten votes. We didn't make it. Guys, I'll put it back on. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. This will not honor either the Ukrainian Parliament or the Ukrainian Euro-Atlantic direction. So please, I'm going to read the factions again. Heads of factions, see that no one goes out, but vice versa, invite everyone into the hall. So invite all the deputies into the hall, see who's in the towers. From the factions, see who is in the towers, and invite you to the hall. And I'm going to read through the factions again: "Clock of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 63, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 11, Radical Party – 18, "Fatherhood" – 12, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 9 and non-fractional – 20. And please don't leave the hall. On the contrary, take up jobs. So, colleagues, a safe block of questions, and they all have to be in the workplace after consideration. Please be prepared. I'm reminding you that I'm going to make another offer to return, and then we're going to move on to making a decision. So when I vote, I ask you to be in the workplace. We count each voice. So please, all of you, please mobilize now. And I'm betting. Please take your jobs, we're waiting for you. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's military standards laws (8370). The first vote, I remind you, will be for the return, and the second vote will be for the basis. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. Every vote matters, please vote. Vote! Let's vote, colleagues. Take part carefully in the voting. [[11:30:34]] For 236 We're back. And now I'm putting Bill 8370 on the ground. Please vote and please support, on the basis. Vote. [[11:30:56]] For 236 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border (6777). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, carefully, for the shortcut. [[11:31:30.]] For-166 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the State Border Service Servatjuk Vasil Mikolaiovich. Give me a chance to pass, colleagues. Please, Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u73	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u74	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of this law is to create the right conditions for engineering equipment throughout the state border, including with the aggressor country. Today, contracts with neighbouring nations have only a strip two and a half feet [two and a half meters] wide from the border signs to the side of a neighbouring state. This does not determine the size of the land to be allocated to the authorities of the State Border Service for the provision of engineering facilities. At the same time, in the countries of the European Union, the issue has been settled, and the free allocation of the necessary area has been secured. In order to properly provide for the border and the border regime, there are monitoring lanes, anti-transport trenches, annual roads, fences, beggars and other objects. However, the corrupt and privately owned land along the state border is often used to store and smuggle goods, drugs, and smuggle illegal migrants. To reach such areas, the border guards must have permission from the owner or a judicial decision. It takes time. Only on the border with Russia, where today an aggressor has concentrated a large number of troops and is actively engaged in engineering work, is it necessary to remove 7,000 acres [7,000 ha] of land, 60 percent of which is private. The draft law was developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in collaboration with the State Border Service Administration and on 20 July 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u75	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u76	For the consideration of the Supreme Council. The amendments to the Land Codes and Water Codes and the State Border Act provide for the determination of land size, the release of border insurance against loss. Honorable national MPs, the taking of the law will create conditions for proper enforcement of the border regime, the border regime, the formation of security and defence borders. Please support this very important one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u77	Thank you. And to my co-report, I invite the Secretary of the Committee of Vinick John Julius. And I'd like to be brief. I emphasize, colleagues, I'm trying to get us into the agenda of the day session of the issues that are in the agenda of the day session. And we need to work harder. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u78	My colleagues, once again, I will remind you of the last plenary week when we adopted a very important act on the adjacent zone and expanded the function and mandate of the overseas maritime security service in our waters, in the Azov and Black Seas, we have given them operational tools, including the use of weapons in relation to violators, individuals to be held accountable, etc. This project is called, in principle, something for a different purpose, but it is actually dividing, it continues to separate Ukraine from the aggressor state, the Russian Federation. The question of demarcation, the arrangement of the border with the Russian Federation, including the total length of more than 2,000 kilometers, is urgent. Not only does it solve our issues of national security, it is very ideological, because when Putin flies around his so-called property, he will see that Ukraine is separated from him by even physically appropriate anti-tank trenches, rock roads, trails and suitable parks, which are equipped with modern technical devices that show appropriate violators and can give the command to use force units that provide for the state border regime. A 50 - foot [50 m] lane is needed for the equipment. The committee, by the way, during the working group on the committee, offered to limit the band to 50 meters, because the text of the bill that was given to you before the first reading was more than 50 meters of clarity. ambiguity and uncertainty in this process. Therefore, in order of the 114th Rules, in the first reading, and on the basis of that, I ask to vote on the Adoption Order in the first reading, with a corresponding change to paragraph 1 of the Part. I'm sorry, as a result of the first reading, to accept as a basis, taking into account suggestions for replacing the word "no less than" with the word "do." This is about a 50 - foot [50 m] wide distance. Please vote on the basis and send a second reading to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Please record the performance. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! Dear TV setters! Peter Prashenko's Block will support this bill because it's really necessary to preserve our border so that the enemy doesn't penetrate our territory. However, there are also a number of questions before what is being done when the wall is being built at the moment. For example, in the district, these are a few areas that fell under this wall: The Triotic region of the Lugansk region, the Biloukurakina district of Lugansk, where work had already begun. And during the course of these operations, the mass of violations occurs, especially with the ground, when people pass through this wall in human ponds. For two years now, no one has compensated the lands that the State has removed. No document was created for this purpose. And people don't know how to make up for a private land that's being removed from circulation. Moreover, during the passage of this wall, there is a great deal of, let's say, negligence when they're moving more than 50 meters from the border, and these lands are just nothing. We're losing Ukrainian land that's not being processed and that's actually nothing. And these are beautiful black people. We're losing tens, hundreds, thousands of acres if we take the entire border. Therefore, I would like to see things in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u81	Thank you. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u82	Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. Please hand over Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's very embarrassing that in the fourth year of the war with the Russian Federation, we actually don't have a defined border with the aggressor state until the end, and that's a real fact. There are entire villages and cities that Curilo spoke of, where the border passes between these virtually villages. Instead, instead of arranging and completing the process of demarcating the state border, we made this a political process after the destruction of one of the politicians. You know what Project Wall is. You're very well, here all the experts and everyone understands that the wall is actually being built, and the wall that the border guards really need. Instead, some ephemeral notions are used to show that someone actually broke something there. So this process must be completed, obviously, to the end. The biggest problem is that it is related to the earth. Today, I think the authors of the second-reading bill should give very serious answers to the question of who will compensate people for the lands that are actually going to be owned by foreigners, the 50 meters that I'm already dividing by human pies. It says here that it does not lie on people. But the question is, will the authorities of local self - government do so, in what way, the order of return, in effect, to these people of these lands that will be taken away from them? And the key task of Ukrainian diplomacy is to finally demarcate, and to the borderers to complete the construction of those buildings that are the wall. Yes, it's a certain level of trenches and other types of structures that actually allow us to track and track violations of the state border of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u84	Thank you. From Self-Help, Shepherd Taras Timothyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u85	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, sometimes feel that when national MPs speak for support of a particular law, they can read only the name of the law and then base their basics on supporting the personal and the beliefs of other deputies, voting or not voting for the bill. I would ask you to simply open it and read it, and then you'll understand that today in this bill it's not about the Russian Federation, it's not about the border with the Russian Federation, it's about the entire borderline around Ukraine. This is true of Lvivščina, this is true of the Blacks, and other areas of our territory. If I'm not mistaken, this story and this idea didn't come up when aggression started with the Russian Federation, but when tunnels were created that led from the Zakartat region to the neighboring state of Hungary, and where the border guards couldn't get access, because there was actually private property in the land. This problem is, and today it is the legislation of the envisaged mechanism for the implementation or resolution of this problem. Today the law has sufficient authority to remove land from people already in private property for public purposes and there is a prescribed procedure for compensation for such land or other land, or monetary compensation. This law, it restores us in part to Soviet power, it tells us that people have to take their land without judgment, and how it will be compensated, no words in this law are, unfortunately, provided for. Today, even when the Secretary’s proposal to the Committee on Safety and Defence is that it should be limited to 50 meters, at times 50 meters too much, and in some cases 50 might be too little. And that's why it's not going to be a solution for the border guards either. So the proposal to bring this bill back to the committee for work and after work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and in two minutes we're going to move on to making a decision. That's why I'm asking the factions to invite all the people's deputies into the hall. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please make an announcement for the deputies. I'd like to invite you from the Radical Party, Lajsko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u87	For me, for our team, for every Ukrainian, the state border is sacred, like Herb, like Hymn, like the Flag, like the Ukrainian Church and the Ukrainian language. And that's why our team has done everything in the legislative field to give our border guards additional opportunities to protect the border. Moreover, the protection of the border is too expensive to pay for the protection of our border against the aggressor. During the years of Russian aggression, 70 border guards were killed, over 500 injured. Foreigners pay for their lives and health by protecting our country’s borders. That's why we were condemning the border breakout in the west of the country when the circuses here were smoking. And some local politicians used Ukrainian politics to break the Ukrainian border in the West to win a rating. What makes you different from the "wankers" who broke into the East: Donetskin and Lugansk? No one, no political dividends, no political ambitions can be the basis for breaking through borders and beating off bordermen and bullying them, demeaning them. That is why we have supported the criminalization of the border so that everyone who invades the Ukrainian border will be in prison. That's why we gave the border guards the right to conduct operational search activities to make them more effective in protecting the border. We voted in favour of increasing wages for border guards to receive a decent salary for their hard, important work. We will also vote for this law, which will allow the country to have a border on the castle. The work of the border guards depends on the life, health of the Ukrainians, the peaceful sky, peace in our home and in our country. We support our famous border guards!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u88	Thank you, colleagues. So, everyone, please come into the hall, take up jobs. There was a warning during the discussion. In order to take that warning off, I'll give the committee secretary one more minute. Mr. Taras. Mr. Taras, perhaps Mr. John will convince you by argument, because without your votes we will not win most. One minute. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please, Ivan, one minute. Time is coming, John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u89	Colleagues, I listened very carefully to the performances. First. Many criticize: Why just now? I want to remind you that this project is about to be a year and a half, and we're not going to be able to figure out how we're going to set it up. So let us be responsible and still vote on the basis of today’s vote so that we do not ask why for so long. The other one. It's really not just about the border with the Russian Federation. But our priorities will certainly be to set aside a border whose border regime does not provide, and vice versa, it violates any international obligation and has committed armed aggression against Ukraine. This project isn't about customs rules or anti-smuggling, it's about corruption, which, unfortunately, exists in separate areas. At the same time, I'd like to remind you if at the site of that tunnel that is now being built somewhere in the direction of any country, intellectual border protection is being built in the form of appropriate projects: walls, annual roads, trenches, etc. There'll probably be no more tunnels. So let's vote on the basis right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u90	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Take your seats, step into the hall, please, from the bed. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border (No.6777), taking into account the proposal by the Committee to replace the words "no less than" with the word "to" in paragraph 3 of the draft and proposing that the second reading of the Committee should be answered in the matter of compensation for areas in private property -- what was said during the discussion. With this proposal on the ground, on the basis of the vote, please support. We support the Ukrainian border, we vote. [[11:48:56]] For 227 Decision taken. And, colleagues, next. I suggest very intensely. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the Establishment of Territorial Centres for Compilation and Social Support on the basis of Military Commissioners (9285). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:49:37]] For-162 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the secretary of the committee of Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. And, Mr. John, I beg of you in a very concise manner. Colleagues, and I ask everyone to be in the hall, after considering this bill, there will be a block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session, where there will be both security issues and the question of extending the moratorium to the ground. So I'd like everyone to be in the hall and make the most of this draft law. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u91	It's actually a simple project. In simple language, it's all about changing military commissions to district district assembly and social support centers. Thus, we make changes to the Ukrainian Housing Act. In the Housing Code, "The Defense of Ukraine", "The Alternative Service", "The Military Duty and Military Service" and more. That's why it has a pretty large volume, but the content is one: we rename, we clear the Soviet rudimentary -- the name of the military commission -- we call it the proper Nazi word, how it works in developed countries. It's going to be a local assembly and social support center. I'll pay attention, colleagues. I would like to thank, in particular, for the support, by the way, during the review of the 2019 budget, for the allocation of over half a billion dollars for the implementation of this program. We're going to have, really, not Soviet military commissioners, we're going to have modern assembly and social support centers. They're going to look good, they're going to have equipment, they're going to have an information system, and so on. So in order not to waste time, this performance will be from both the author and the committee. The committee on the basis proposes to accept this project. If the Rules permit, let us move on. Please accept as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. And, colleagues, as concise as possible – a great request – during the discussion. Please. So, from Peter Dustenka's Block, Dehtyarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u93	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154 constituency. Dear society, the bill is extremely important. In practice, he found out about his constituency by looking at the situation of former military personnel, who we now want not just to rename, but to give them completely new logical functions. I would also like to draw attention to the need to provide accommodations for the military, since there was a time when not only the army but also the military. In fact, many of the buildings in the district have been sold, and to this day a number of military units have been in the adapted premises. I would like to point out that among the new functions that will be carried out by the centres is the interaction with the families of the dead, the assistance, including the psychological autism. I propose that we all unite and vote in favour of the bill. It is really necessary and is in keeping with the realities of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u94	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing act. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. After that, I remind you, it will be a day session. So we're going to need full mobilization of the hall. Now, the closing statement is the Andriy Alexanderovich River from the People's Front, and we move on to the decision-making process. Invite, colleagues, the heads of factions, all the deputies in the hall. Please, Andrew Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u95	The People's Front supports this bill, we will vote in favour. And I also invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u96	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come back from the government and guest rooms. And, Faction Heads, please. Please come into the hall, colleagues. Mrs. Tetyano, we've already voted! Do Not Distract People’s Deputies! Go back to the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissions (No.9285). At the suggestion of the committee only on the basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, fellows! On the ground, we vote. [[11:54:41]] For 205 I'll be back. Please invite you to the hall. Colleagues, we're taking time, we're wasting time. Heads of factions! Now I'm going to read from factions to look at: "Block of Petra Poshenko" -- 79, "National Front" -- 62, "Block of Opposition" -- 0, "Help" -- 8, Radical Party 17, "Fathership" -- 10, "Will of the People"-- 5, "Party of Rebirth"-- 3. Colleagues, back up! From Rebirth, please! Postfaction is 21. So, colleagues, let's mobilize. The first vote is for the return and then for the basis. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 9285. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, it's settled. Voting, supporting. We're voting for the return. [[11:55:58]] For 218. Eight votes. Colleagues, eight votes, it's just a waste of time. Look who's not around, why don't you invite them into the hall? Colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. I'd like to ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite the delegates who are in the towers to the Hall. Fellows, look who's not around and invite you to the workplace. I'm going to put it to the vote again. Show by factions. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. Please take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? So each voice has a weight, so I'm asking everyone to vote carefully right now. First vote in return. Don't move away from the workplace, don't leave the hall. First vote in return. I ask you to support the return to draft Law 9285 and please vote, colleagues, to vote carefully. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:57:19]] For 224 2 votes, 2 votes. Attention, let's mobilize now. Mrs. Oksana, Mrs. Oksana, yes, two votes. Okay. Okay. So 2 votes. I'm asking you to mobilize, get ready. Do not leave the hall, but come into the hall. So the first vote is to go back to draft Law 9285. Please vote and support, colleagues. Back up, colleagues, back up, vote. Vote! Please be supportive. Colleagues, carefully, each voice matters. I ask everyone to vote carefully. [[11:58:17]] For 234 We're back. Now I'm putting Law 9285 on the ground. On the basis of each voice. Please vote, please support. We're voting on the basis. Please support, we vote. [[11:58:42]] For 238. Decision taken. And now, colleagues, the next chapter of the agenda is for inclusion in the agenda. And I'm continuing the session to this block. You have all the questions on your hands that are suggested to be included in the agenda of the session. The first is 9355 and 15 alternatives. It's about a draft Act amending Chapter X of the Land Code for the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land. It's suggested that we get into the agenda of the day session, and we'll look at it on Thursday. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. And they're all alternate, they're both principal and they're all alternate. [[11:59:41]] For 216 Guys, I'll put it back on. And then there's all the alternatives, maybe they didn't get it. This is a question that concerns the continuation of the moratorium on land sales, 9355 and 15 alternatives. All of them share in the agenda of the day’s session together, and on Thursday we will consider them. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Please be supportive. These laws regulate the legislative extension of the moratorium. [[12:00:22]] For 224 Two votes. Okay, I'll do it again, I'll do it again. Let's see the factions. So, colleagues, I'm re-entering the agenda for the 9355 session. They'll give us a legislative base, colleagues. Without it, we're not going to create a legislative base. Please vote, please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 9355 session. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:01:07]] For 235 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on the Prohibition of Trade in Agricultural Assignment Land (9364). Please vote. Author – Levchenko. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[12:01:36]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Next. 9162 is a draft of the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development. This is a request from the Bakumenko Committee. The main principles of public agrarian policy (9162) are the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session, the agrarian block. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support the inclusion. [[12:02:17]] For 184 The decision is not taken. So this is it. The factions, please. That was an agrarian question. Now, colleagues, we're going to have an important issue of the security and defence bloc, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the procurement of goods, works and defence services for import (9122). Colleagues, I have a big request for everyone to support the 9122 inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. We have a security block today, and we can take it today. Back up, fellows! Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote! We're backing it up. [[12:03:19]] For 186 186. Have a consult, and then I'll put it back on. Conduct consultations. Colleagues, the following: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the extension of the simplified procedure for the reorganization of public and municipal health institutions (No. 9075). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:03:59]] For-173 173. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, next. May I have your attention, please? The next one is 9241. This is a draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on financial security for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I want to inform you that from the very morning we have a Constitutional Court Judge Moses, who has been in this room, understands what a parliamentary job is, but today he is very much asking everyone to support the increased funding of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Let's, colleagues, support whatever factions. This is an increase in the funding of the Constitutional Court, which we have recently worked on, which has the ability to act effectively. I would like to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision 9241. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Vote! We'll support Moses. Colleagues, support the Constitutional Court. Vote! Vote! [[12:05:14]] For a hundred and Guys, I'm gonna ask you again. I don't understand this logic. This is a government body in which, after the selection of two more candidates, we cannot increase funding in connection with its set-up and full - time work. I'm asking you, colleagues, this is a responsible position, please support. It is dishonest and unfair not to support. I ask everyone to vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and to adopt decision 9241, a colleague. And carefully, take up jobs. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. For the full functioning of the Constitutional Court. Vote. [[12:06:13]] For 196 The decision is not made. Talk to me. The next one is actually identical: 9395. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. It's identical, just MP's. Please vote. [[12:06:47]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. The next is 9406: a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to utilities and the adjustment of prices/tariffs for utilities. The Andreyevsky People’s Deputy Project (9406), a day - to - day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:07:29]] For 176 The decision is not made. The next is 9329: a draft regulation on the provision of unhindered media activities during the pre-election period of the 19th year. Colleagues, I think, are all interested in having this bill incorporated into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please support 9329. The Information Policy Committee recommends that it be included in the agenda of the day’s session. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:08:16]] For 224 We didn't make it. Colleagues, I'll put it back together. I ask everyone during the vote to be in the workplace. Please, I'm re-inserting the day session of the 9329 Project. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We vote carefully and responsibly. [[12:08:50]] For 232 Decision taken. And the next is the final one on this block: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on Enhancing Information Security and Resisting the Aggressor State in the Information Area (9068). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, support. This is the information security of the country. Please vote. [[12:09:30]] For 205 Colleagues, I'm going to re-set this Act on Television and Radio Broadcasting on the Strengthening of Information Security and Against the Aggressor State in the Information Sector (9068). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. [[12:10:01]] For 207 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'll do it again, third time. By factions, show me. Please. The factions. Come on, fellows, let's get closer. And I'm proposing that we include draft Law 9068 in the agenda for the decision-making session. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please support, we vote. Colleagues, we will maintain the information security of our nation. Please vote and support everyone. [[12:10:43]] For 211 And, colleagues, there is a request, a very big request from the Security and Defence Committee to re-prove the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on procurement of goods, works and defence services (9122). So, colleagues, 9122 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Our foreign partners, NATO partners are asking us to support this bill of Law 9122. Please vote, please support. We vote in the agenda for the decision-making session, we vote. [[12:11:52]] For-198 And, colleagues, from that point of view, we don't have a common position, we've passed a day-to-day session block, a number of drafts have been included, and I welcome the authors. I'm calling it a 30-minute break, till 12:42. And the next question that we're going to have is the day-to-day issue, which is the Ukrainian Private Detective Activity Act. So right after the break, we'll move on to the next question of the agenda: private detective activity. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and be at work at 12:42.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u97	I request that all Ukrainian national deputies return to the session room. We continue our plenary session, the break is over. And in fact, we still have a big list of the bills that we have to work on today. So please return to the session room. At the same time, a statement came to the fore from two MP factions, the Peter Poshenko Block, the People's Front, for a break. But our colleagues from the People's Front are ready to replace the break with a statement. The leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, will make a statement. Mr. Maxime, please have a word with me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u98	Honorable Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues and not respected representatives of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin! I would like to share with you today information about the godfather Putin, who feels at ease in Ukraine. It is interesting that he uses the patronage not only of his godfather Putin in Russia but, unfortunately, of the Ukrainian authorities. The People's Front has repeatedly addressed the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, other bodies to fight and defend Ukraine's independence, to investigate Medvedchuk's activities in Ukraine. But it's interesting that there are no reactions, no criminal cases, no investigations. And then I wanted to enlighten the people, who the Bear is. And Medvedchuk is a person who has a bearing on the shadow smuggling of oil products. And Medvedchuk is a person who affects the 112 and NewsOne channels, who openly retranslate the Kremlin's dungeons and hide the notion of freedom of speech. And Medvedchuk is the person who is forming the pro-Creme political parties in Ukraine, who will be going to the next year's elections in Parliament, who are sitting quietly here. And Medvedchuk is not just the godfather of Putin. Medvedchuk views his godfather Putin as his future governor in Ukraine. Remember what it was like in Ukraine in the '40s? Medvedchuk is not the person who is responsible for the release of the hostages, but who takes hostages. In the U.S., hidden Kremlin agents are already being held criminally accountable and are serving prison terms. And we have an open agent, Putin's godfather, who's free to move around Ukraine, who's doing business in Ukraine, who's buying up the media, and who's trying to participate in the next election to the Supreme Council. That's why the People's Front faction was the initiator of the Supreme Council Order on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry into the facts of interference in the electoral political process and information space in Ukraine by the Russian Federation and Ukrainian citizens associated with the authority of the aggressor state, such as Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, 54th birthday, and others. We demand the creation of this commission. I've sent letters to all the heads of the factions and now I'm waiting for your suggestions on the members of this committee. And this will show who is here for the independence of Ukraine and who are the supporters of Putin and his proselyte forces. Medvedchuk is the leader of a creeping Kremlin coup that we must not allow in our country. (Can I finish, a minute?)
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u99	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u100	Because of such ones as Medvedchuk, Russia will try to undermine the Ukrainian state and intervene in the electoral process and political processes in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there are three months left for the presidential election. And we have to do everything, and we have to create a temporary commission of inquiry, because in reality, when the state doesn't respond and the state authorities don't respond to it, we as deputies have to do it. And once again to these Kremlin agents: you can tear down the posters, you can tell that Medvedchuk the pro-Ukrainian or "Ukrainian Choice" is the godfather of Putin and the representative of the aggressor state, and this investigation commission has to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, so we've got two factions who took a break to replace her for the application. And we continue now, after the announcement by the representatives of the People's Front, we are now continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now it is in order of the day to review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Private Detective Activity Act (No. 3726). The president vetoed the bill. And here we have a special procedure for examining it. The House has to determine whether to overcome the President's veto or to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, for this bill. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina. Mrs. Irina, may I have your word, please? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 13 April 2017, the Act on Private Detective Activities (No.3726) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of this. First of all, according to the law that came upon the signature, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is entrusted with a number of powers regarding the provision and organization of private detective activities. At the same time, in view of the objective of such activities and services as may be available to its entities, the above - mentioned powers correspond to the direction of activity, not of the Ministry of Justice, as stated in the law, but of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Police of Ukraine. Secondly, the law does not provide clear details of the information that is allowed to be collected and investigated by private investigators, which actually allows them to collect evidence to deal with cases and in criminal proceedings. This is not in line with the rules of criminal and procedural legislation which define a clear list and procedure and order for the collection of relevant evidence and a list of entities that can do so. Thirdly, the law provides for the right of private investigators to carry out external observation does not correspond to the statutory prohibition of specified entities to carry out search-and-rescue measures, which, inter alia, fall within the exclusive competence of operational units. It should also be noted that the legal classification of information with limited access: commercial, industrial, professional secret – does not conform to the existing legislation in the relevant sphere, according to which information with restricted access is conference, secret and service information. Furthermore, the law does not determine the amount of payment for the issuance of a certificate for private detective activity, the need for which it provides, which in turn does not comply with the provisions of the Law on Administrative Services. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine stresses the need to reconcile the provisions of the Private Detective Activity Act with the provisions of the Constitution and other basic legislative acts in the relevant areas of legal regulation. In view of the above, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and further develop this law, taking into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Please stay where you are. And please record for answers to your questions. There are no questions for the reporter. Thank you for the report. Please take your place. And now I'm inviting you to the report. I would like to invite you to a report from the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the People's Deputies of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u104	Mr. Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed the President's proposals for the Law on Private Detective Activities, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 13 April 2017. The law establishes general legal principles, organization and rights of detective (search) activities in Ukraine, and regulates: the types and legal status of the subjects of such activities; the procedure for issuing a certificate of the right to engage in private detective (search) activities; the types of detective services that may be provided to subjects of private detective (search) activities, the rights and duties of such subjects, and so on. The President of Ukraine did not sign this law by applying the veto to it, and on June 6, 2017, he returned it to the Supreme Council with his proposals for reconsideration. The Committee considered the President's proposals at its meeting and decided to accept all the President's proposals in order to preserve the law. Thus, the comparative table contains 21 proposals by the President of Ukraine, which are proposed to be taken fully into account. In addition, with a view to partially taking into account the comments of the General Legal Directorate, it is suggested that some disagreements should be removed by removing words that do not bear appropriate weight. In particular, under the stenogram, I will note what is proposed to be deleted: in part six of article 7 of the law, the word “at the place of work”; In the first part of article 10 of the law, the word "given its access and right to engage in private detective (search) activities." In this way, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Private Detective Activities in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I would like to support you with suggestions from the committee and with technical legal remedies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u105	Thank you. If there are any questions to the co-rapporteur, I ask the national MPs to sign up. Please hold the recording. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Trelyakow. He's taking down the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u106	So, colleagues, we finished the interviewer, the co-rapporteur. Now there's going to be a faction discussion. If anyone intends to participate in the discussion, please sign up. And, colleagues, I'm told by the drafters that not so many people. So I'm addressing factions' heads: the discussion is going to take 10 to 15 minutes, even 10 minutes, please mobilize as many people as possible in the room, invite them into the hall. And please take part in the discussion. So, colleagues, please record for discussion: two in favour, two in favour. Please record for the discussion and please take part in the discussion, please. From the People's Front, please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u107	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I am now addressing all the colleagues of the national MPs who are now present in Parliament. We've been working on this bill for more than two years, and it allows thousands, tens of thousands of jobs to be opened in Ukraine, and initiates a private detective's profession and the possibility of providing services to Ukrainian businesses and individuals. More than a hundred countries use this opportunity. And now it would be very bad for Parliamentarianism to stop the huge amount of work that we have done with you. So I am very much asking and calling on the honourable heads of factions to organize the presence of the national MPs and to confirm our final decision in 226 votes. I propose to everyone to support the proposals that the President of Ukraine has sent, to adopt this bill, and to introduce a private detective's profession in Ukraine. This will greatly strengthen the security sector, including the work of law enforcement agencies, and will significantly relieve our investigators of the everyday affairs that Ukrainian citizens are facing and do not allow themselves to be seriously involved. So I ask everyone to return to the session room and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u108	Thank you, colleagues. And I ask you, Mr. Andrey, to point out that there are not many factions, and to inform the factions as much as possible to arrive at the Hall. From Peter Prashenko's Block to the word. From Peter Dustock's Block, Arthur, which one of you will you be? Mikola Palamarczuk, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, friends, this, this bill is in all European states. This bill will allow, first of all, to invest money in the state budget. The second will allow all those who can work to help internal affairs, and today the Ukrainian police to expose crimes. The third is that this bill will allow not only itself but its families to support those who know how to do it. Fourthly, what's very important is that this project will give an impetus to the fact that we're going to Europe and we're also creating an alternative to the law enforcement system so that people can expose crimes. I'd also like to say that this bill, it's already being introduced fourth time in the hall, fourth time, and fourth time we're sending it. We can't fail to accept the bill because thousands of people who have gone out of the system and know how to do it and want to ensure the safety of our peaceful citizens, the people who expect us to do it. Moreover, I want to say that the Association of Private Detectives has just written us many references and letters about the need to support the bill. Moreover, private detectives work today, but they work without law. So I urge everyone to identify themselves and vote in favour of such a necessary bill for our nation, for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u110	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word. Who of the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich, who of you is speaking? Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please, from the Radical Party. Get ready from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u111	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to say what's obvious to every Ukrainian: there's a whole mess and a mess in the country today. No person in Ukraine is protected. People get mugged, grandmas come out of the store with a bag of milk -- they attack bandits, they rip that bag of milk out of their hands. They go around the houses, they don't look at who lives there, whether it's a simple person or not. A complete mess! Where's the power, I ask?Oh, my God! Well, you're all sitting there happy who you won't look at -- everybody's having a good time. Come out to the people, see how they live! There, I was recently in the Crossroads of the Sumstin region of Lipovodolin a few days ago. There's a 100-year science research farm -- cows are held up, jobs are given to people -- they can't get government acts on the ground for years! Because they put an eye on a few thousand hectares of land that processed the farm. And the local cadastre wants to tear this land apart. And everyone knows they're taking bribes. I said, where's the power?Oh, my God! If everyone knows, in the Romani district, I'm told that cadastres take bribes, in Lipowodolin district, they tell me they're taking bribes. So where are the authorities if they all know they're taking bribes and they don't put bribes in jail?Oh, my God! Why have people been unable to form the earth for years?Oh, my God! Why does no one protect ordinary Ukrainians?Oh, my God! Where is the reform promised by President Dustenko? Here are the results of the judicial reform. The Church Court recently released a journalist, a customer. A similar decision was taken by the Kirovograd Court. The police arrested the assassin for the murder (thank you to the police), and the powdered court released it. Here's all the results of the reforms! That is why the Radical Party team did not vote in favour of any bill initiated by President Dustenk on the so-called judicial reform. Because it was obvious to me from the very beginning that the purpose of Dustyka was not to bring justice back to court, but to usurp justice. So the real court reform, the real fight against corruption, the real fight for justice, is to give the Ukrainians the right to choose judges so that the judges don't be assigned to the offices behind the bribe, so that these sales outlets in the mantiacs don't release the killers, and the killers sit under house arrest, the slaves chew and pineapple. I have murderers and customers in prison who will spend the rest of my life robbing Ukrainians. I'll give the Ukrainians the right to choose judges, take him to corruption. I will return the country to peace, protection of the Ukrainians, and confidence in my country. This is what needs to be done for the country, not the propaganda that today’s authorities are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u112	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five minutes. I'm also addressing the heads of factions, the drafters of the bill to mobilize as much as possible, and in five minutes we're moving on to the decision-making process. The Secretariat of the Supreme Council also requests to inform the people's deputies that in five minutes we are moving on to a decision-making process. Everyone, please come into the hall. From the Fatherland faction to Sergio Eutuska. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. Eutusek, Fatherland, Plaintish. Dear colleagues, what is the bill that we are considering today? This is an opportunity to quickly, quickly expose crimes, to involve people who are not in the IMF system. So these are people who may have tremendous work experience, but they are already enjoying well - deserved rest. These are the people who have skills, the people who worked quickly with the crime detection. So I think we need to support this bill. But at the same time, I want to get my attention. On the Plain of Sarna, literally a few weeks ago, a famous entrepreneur named Mrs. Tamara Liniva, who has been engaged in entrepreneurial activities for a long time, and in her flat in balaclava, three men were brutally beaten, not beaten with their hands -- how can men be thought to beat a woman? - and even beat it with bits. To this day, unfortunately, our guardians cannot determine who it is, for what purpose it was done. It's a terrible case, because we now understand that any other person, any other entrepreneur, can be in its place. So our job now is to help strong structures, to enable them to open up, quickly expose these serious crimes, to bring them to justice, to arrest such bandits. I also want to contact local authorities, city heads, who have to make sure that their cities, villages, villages are safe. Living safely is an opportunity to establish in their population locations where they operate, to establish Security City through the additional installation of video surveillance cameras, which will enable our forces, internal affairs agents to quickly detect crimes. So I urge the entire session room to focus on this bill, to give as many votes as possible, and to allow the bill to be signed already by the Head of the Supreme Council and the President so that it can become a legal act and be implemented in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u114	Thank you. So all those desirous of factions came forward, colleagues. From now on the reporter's closing statement is three minutes, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. And this is the closing statement, after which we go to the vote. The authors and members of the committee are asking me to help mobilize the people in the hall. Three minutes later, we move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Please, Irina Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I would very much like you to come up with a very thoughtful and balanced approach to making a decision on this bill. The 700,000 who are now out of work -- whether the illustration has passed or retired -- who could help those strong structures that our colleagues and the Fatherland spoke and spoke to the leader of the Radical faction of Oleg Lazko. But let us keep in mind what the president of the country is stressing. Yes, we have to give our citizens additional protection. But the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, tells us in his veto that he is a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of a citizen and even guarantees them the right to stay out of their private lives. What did the president of Ukraine stress? That this bill should be balanced. What is his balance? It should be, first of all, a comprehensive list of the powers of private investigators. What belongs to the authority of the National Police should in no way be crossed by the authority of private investigators. Next. Protectors to protect citizens from possible abuses by private investigators with their authority. Responsible for possible discreditation by private investigators of Ukrainian citizens. Proper protection of commercial secrets and protection against industrial espionage, so that commercial information is not extracted or misused under the brand. As well as ensuring customer security, the President stresses as a guarantor of the Constitution that this law must be balanced, that it meets the rules of the Constitution to protect citizens from further interference in their private lives, and that it meets the standards of law in force. We're still talking a lot about the fact that we have a lot of forces in the state, and now we want to provide the work of another 700,000 ex-silhouettes, giving them such a blurry mandate. Be careful when voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u116	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, come into the hall, come back from bed and guest rooms and government jobs and take jobs. Colleagues, the bill was supported in the hall, and the committee also supports the proposals made by the president. And so it's obviously going to be compromised and consolidated in the room, but it needs a higher level of mobilization. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I remind you, I'm going to put the first vote to a general decision, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, and this is actually going to be the final stage of the decision-making process. I'm asking you to take all the jobs. I understand all the factions support it? So, colleagues, I'm voting on the Ukrainian Act on Private Detective Activities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 03.06.2017 (No. 3726) with a proposal to accept as a whole. Get in the hall, don't come out! Colleagues, get back to the hall, Sergei! In general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[13:13:44]] For-161 Colleagues, by factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 60, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 5, Self-help – 1, Radical Party – 10, Father's Party – 9, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 17. Colleagues, I will now return to this vote, please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Private (Detective) Search Act with the President's proposals (3726). Please vote, please support the return. Please vote. [[13:15:01]] For-161 161. Yes, colleagues, the following is an offer: to the committee for further work. May we be united around it? We can send it to the committee for further processing. Come on, fellows, I've consulted with lawyers, we have a right to a committee to work on. So I'm asking, colleagues, this proposal to support, compromise. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal that the Ukrainian Private Detective Activity Act (3726) be sent to the committee for work. Please vote and please support. Vote. Support me. [[13:16:04]] For-170. Colleagues, in fact, we don't have any more suggestions. 56 votes, no card. Okay, I'll make an offer to come back. There's still a proposal -- to overcome the veto. So, colleagues, I'm going to go back to this proposal because, says Andrew Teteruk, the card didn't work. I hope that 56 votes will be added here, I'm sure. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, the decision is about to be made. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for an offer to send to the committee for work. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:17:15]] For 165 165, colleagues, it's too big a breakup. Yeah, look, I'll read it to you in factions. By factions, please, Peter Dustenka's Block, 63. Look, there's over 63 in the hall, look around. The People's Front is 49, there's more than 49, the Opposition Block is 44, Self-Help is 6, there's more than six in the room. The Radical Party is 10, there are more than 10. "Paternity" is 8, "Will of the People" is 3, "The Rebirth Party" is 3. My colleagues, we had to work in the hall. I hope that the authors will transpose the bill, because in fact we no longer have mechanisms and no other proposals for voting. And, colleagues, I have to report now that the Ukrainian Act on Private Detective Activity has been rejected. I'm sure the authors will prepare and we'll move it, and we'll consider it in the next session. And I hope all the proposals will be taken into account. But now the Law of Ukraine 3726 has been rejected. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day -- this is the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in the 19th year. It's very important for us to accept it before New Year's Eve, and here are the proposals of all factions. I hope that we can unite around this bill. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Project Order 9234. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a cut. Keep it up, fellows. [[13:19:13]] For 134 Colleagues, why? There are not many topics to discuss. Let me put it again, colleagues, and I ask everyone to vote. So please support the consideration of Project Order 9234 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:19:49]] For-141 Fellows, I'm going to put it again, but I want to remind you that we now have three decisions that are unifying. This is the decree to mark the memorial dates and the Jubilee, and then the two decrees that Spiowakovsky spoke of during the Conciliation Council. It is a decree to mark the memorial dates and Jubilee and then the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions. We'll make it through. If we follow full procedure, we won't be able to get through. Colleagues, I ask everyone to mobilize and support the proposal so that we will consider the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019. Please vote, please support. Vote! Keep it up, fellows. [[13:20:57]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the Committee at its meeting on October 17, 2018 (Protocol No.79), discussed the issue of the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Regulations on the Marking of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019. The draft regulation sets out a list of the most important events in the social and political life of Ukraine and the Jubilee of eminent persons, which should be marked at the national level in 2019. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality decided to recommend a draft Order on the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019 to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. I suggest that the stenogram committee complete in chronological order the addition to the draft regulation by paragraphs of the following table of contents. Chapter I: "400 years from the date of the drama by Yakub Gavatovich "Tragediah, or the image of the death of the Reverend John the Baptist", which is actually the date of the opening of the Ukrainian theatre in 1619; 350 years from the start of the Hethman residence in Baturin. " In chapter II: "August 20 – 135 years since the birth of Omelyan Kovč, a church and public figure, a prisoner of the Nazi regime; 210 years since the birth of Nikola Vasilovich Gogol." Chapter IV: "30 years since the end of the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, the veneration of the Ukrainians killed in Afghanistan." I would like to ask you to make a decision on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the leaders of the factions to the National Chamber, because so many people are coming and asking for the honor of prominent Ukrainians -- important events that unite our nation. I would appreciate your support and your request to come to your colleagues ’ room for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Mikola. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the parliamentary groups and factions to discuss this decision. Dear colleagues, did we not have a card? Dear colleagues, there is a desire to speak with the national MP Barney. Please. His card didn't work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u119	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, the celebration of the memorable dates in Ukraine's history is the first to restore our historical memory to our traditions, to our glorious past and to our heroes. And it is particularly true that the following year is the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian People's Republic, 100th anniversary, particularly the Czartkow offensive, which is envisioned in the observance of this law. Obviously, we all need to return to our history and memorable signs, marking these events in places, writings in history books, stamps, coins, and so on, we must forever strike into the memory of our nation, the growing generation of the feats of our heroic ancestors. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction supports this decision, and we ask everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Nor did Mrs. Hanna Hopko's non-faction button work. Please, two minutes. Colleagues from other groups and factions, I'm also asking you to give a signal whose card hasn't worked yet. And the Fatherland didn't work, you see? And please, Mr. Krulko. And the colleagues who are in the towers right now, we're asking you to go back to the session room, because. There's already been a performance from BP. Because there'll be a vote in four minutes. Please, Mrs. Hopko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We want to support Mr. Nicholas of the Prince and the committee and for preparing an important decision, and, by all means, after such a historic event as the Council, and the fact that we already have our Ukrainian Township Church, the next important step will be January 22 when it is 100 years old from the Day of the Zluca Act, when the Great Ukraine and Galicina were first united in an independent Ukrainian state. And I would like to call on both the President's Administration and the government, co-chairs of the high-level organ committee, to invite distinguished foreign guests to the 100th anniversary of the Assembly to mark this date at a worthy state level. Why is this important? Not only for historical memory, for unity within the country, but also for international subjectivity. If we look at the 100 years that the Baltic countries, Poland, Georgia, have recently celebrated, we would also like to follow that example. I believe that this celebration – 100 years of the January 22 Congregation, which we are going to celebrate, is going to become truly state-wide with the invitation of heads of foreign states and governments. And that's why we need to prepare these measures at the right level, not just for the President's part, but for every family, every town and village to realize that we're proud of our own state after those important historical decisions. And then, of course, we're waiting for the Council on January 6th to receive Tomos and we're waiting for other new historical victories to keep, to increase our statehood. And I urge everyone to join the Hall now to vote in favour of this important decision. And also, colleagues, I look forward to the National Security Act, the package -- the reform of the BSC, the reform of intelligence, the parliamentary committee for oversight -- being introduced. And before we vote three hundred votes in favour of the amendments to the Constitution on EU and NATO membership, we will also see a package of bills to reform security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko, give me your word. Please, okay. The cards, the colleagues, they didn't work, they didn't work, they didn't work, they didn't work, they didn't work, they didn't It's just a plague with a system today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u123	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the important question that Parliament considers each year is that of commemorating memorable dates. The following year, there will be two memorable dates that I would like to pay special attention to. On March 15, the following year, Ukraine will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Carpathian Ukraine. This is a unique page of our history when the Carpathian Ukraine was proclaimed in Zakarpat, which was at that time isolated from the Great Ukraine. In the town of Hust, where I come from, there was a meeting of the Seima of Carpathian Ukraine, where President Augustine Volosin was elected, and that was when it was determined that the anthem of Carpathian Ukraine was an anthem of "Not yet dead Ukraine", and the flag of Carpathian Ukraine was a blue and yellow ribbon. It's always been Ukrainian, and that's what's left of it, so all the insinuation on the subject of Carnation is just absolute manipulation and really the work of the Kremlin special services. It is vital that we observe that date. The following year will also mark the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Gutsul, which has also declared that it should be reunited with the great Ukraine. And I'd like to say, in this context, how grateful I am to the profile committee that has listened to the proposals made by the people's deputies, and I've included these two dates: 80 years of Carpathian Ukraine and 100 years of Gutsulian Ukraine as a memorial. The Fatherland faction, with these amendments, will vote in favour of the project proposed by the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u124	Thank you. And please, a word on the decision we're discussing to the honorary colleague Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the following September is 125 years old from the date of Alexander Petrovich Duženko’s birth. Unfortunately, this is not in the memory list. Long in Ukraine, one genius of a world cinematographer, who has become a whole pleia of world’s greatest artists. So to ignore such a date in order to honor the memory of the great artist and to draw attention to the Ukrainian cinematographer, I am sure that this is very irresponsible. So I'm asking you to include in the list of commemorative dates at the state level on the 125th anniversary of Alexander Long's birthday. I don't know if any of you have read the Long Book, if you haven't read it, find the possibility of New Year's, Christmas holidays, not with girls in the Canary, in the Bahamas, but read good books, especially the Long Book. In his diary, he wrote about the covenant. His will is to return to Ukraine because Stalin was actually holding our brilliant cinematographer in a golden cage. And they won't let him go even after he died: The dust of Long is buried in the Novodích cemetery. I believe that the Ukrainian authorities need to find arguments in order to find a way to fulfill the great artist's will and to return his ashes to his native country of Sosnic, Ukraine. We can finally offer the Russians Stolipe, who else they're fighting for. Let's get our most important people back here, Ukraine, to their home land. And on the occasion that there are many deputies from Vitaly Klicka here, please hand over Mayor Klick. In Kiev, there was a great film theater called The Long on the Prospect of Victory, and unfortunately, it's not there today. Return Kiev and Longevka to the Chinese is a world-renowned name so that everyone can go to Longevka cinema and remember the glory of Longevko, our brilliant cinematographer. "Do not turn your back on your own, or learn from others," wrote Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u126	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. It's the closing of the Prince's word. But, colleagues, the heads of factions, mobilize as many deputies as possible. It's been three minutes. In three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. In this decree there are proposals from all factions and all deputies. It must unite the hall. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. And please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this determination on the basis and in general with the suggestions made by my colleague Lazko: with respect to 125 years of debt. Indeed, it is something that does not fit the rules of commemorative dates, since the dates of the citizens who have made a significant contribution to the history of Ukraine, our nation, are marked in many ways. But we can say that Alexander Longzhenko, especially now, in modern history, is really important to us both as a writer and as a director. That's why I'm asking you to support it. And also with the proposals for the Academy of Agricultural Sciences offered by the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u128	Thank you. So I'm going to put to the vote the proposals that the head of the Knieżicky Committee has made, i.e. by supporting the proposal of the Radical Party and the Fatherland. I'm asking everyone to go back to work. Colleagues, from beds and government, and guests I ask will return to the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (No. 9234) with proposals that the Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, has written on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:34:55]] For 193 193. We didn't make it. I'll be back. Look who's gone and ask him to come to the hall. I'll read the factions. Please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 74, National Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 14, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 4, non-fractional – 22. Colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall. I emphasize that we have to accept it at this session, so that in the 19th year all the markings will take place by law, or we will put it into a very unpleasant and difficult situation and committee, and the whole state. Please invite someone who is not in the hall. Support me. I think it would be right if we supported all the halls, all the factions. Why don't you come to the hall? Come in, please. Come into the hall. So the first question will be the return to the vote. Let me tell you again. The Secretariat, please report that there is a vote to go from the towers to the hall. So I'm going to put the first vote back. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019. Please vote and support the return. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, [[13:37:10]] For 204 Colleagues are positive, but not yet. Please, I'm asking you to invite all the MPs who are not here, look who's not here, call and ask them to come to the hall. I'll read the factions again while you invite MPs into the hall. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 63, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 7, "will of the people" – 0. "The will of the people," support! Postfaction is 22. Another clarification will be made by the chairman of the committee, perhaps allowing us to raise our voices. Colleagues, you have a minute, invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we had a long discussion about how we should honor the memory of the Ukrainians who died in Afghanistan. There was the position of members of the committee and the Institute of National Memory that advised us, and we formulated it so that it was the end of the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, because we honestly think it's an intervention. At the same time, colleagues among us who participated in these military activities in Afghanistan would request that the memory of the Ukrainians who died there be softened. So I would suggest in this paragraph that we vote in connection with the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan to honor the Ukrainians who died in Afghanistan. With this clarification, please vote. Please mobilize. My colleagues, you are well aware that in voting for this, we do not simply honor the Ukrainians who have done so much for the history of Ukraine. By voting for these memorable dates, we are able to honor our fellow countrymen. We're allowing you to come to the district, to your homeland, and with the help of the state and local self-government authorities, to do what our nation needs to do -- to restore historical memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u130	Thank you. I'll put you up for a vote. Please take up your jobs. But first we have to go back, colleagues. We have to go back first. So take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (number 9234). Please support the return. Please vote and support. Colleagues, we count each voice. Take up jobs. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:40:23]] For 201 It's just embarrassing and unacceptable. I'll do it again, colleagues. If there are no votes, the decision will simply have to be rejected. I don't know who's gonna win. But all the dates, the memorable dates of the following year, we will not be able to properly mark at the state level just because some deputies do not go to work during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to do it again. Let's see the factions. The discussion is over. You have the opportunity to invite a colleague who is not next door. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 62, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 6, "will of the people" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 4, non-fractional – 21. I'll do it again, colleagues. If there are no votes, the decision will be rejected. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (No. 9234). Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[13:42:07]] For 211 Is there any point in putting it again? Yes. Then, please gather around, 211 is already close. Don't leave the hall, don't leave, stop the national deputy. On the contrary, come into the hall. Colleagues, please enter the hall, join the vote, enter the hall, take up jobs. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. I repeat, the third time, the discussion is over, we are voting now. If you have any positive news, invite those who are not around, and this will be the best service for the adoption of the law, the best service. So take up jobs, come on in, colleagues. I ask, colleagues, to mobilize, there have been enough deputies and, colleagues, during the vote, then the card has not worked, come into the hall. Lord, come in, please, whoever's in the beds, come in, now every voice will have weight. Please prepare, colleagues, this is a crucial vote, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs. And I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (9234). Each voice has a weight, so I ask everyone to vote carefully. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Carefully, we vote responsibly. We'll support it. Vote. "The will of the people" support, support, colleagues. Vote. [[13:44:14]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Now, everyone, please be in the workplace. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace right now. And once again, I ask you to support everyone who is in the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote with the proposals that the Prince has made. Please enter the hall and be in the workplace. I am voting on the draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019 with the proposals that Mikola Knajicki has made under the transcript, support for proposals and the Radical Party, and the Fatherland Party, on the basis and overall (9234). Please vote and please support, every vote, every vote is important, and so I ask everyone to vote and support. Vote, colleagues, support! Vote! Vote! [[13:45:25]] For 232 It's been decided. Fellows, it's strange that it's taken so long to make a decision. The MPs are just fine. Let's move on to the next decision. Draft Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships to students of higher education institutions on the modification of the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (9171). This is the bill that was requested and requested by the chairman of the committee of Spiowakovsky during the Conciliation Council. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:46:23]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u131	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! We're looking at, on the one hand, the technical question: we want to bring the real state of the scholarship to the students of technology and colleges, as well as to the students of universities. We want to set up for technicians, colleges 2,000, 130 bucks, and university students 2,000, 720 bucks. Many or few? There's a lot of questions, but some figures to make it clear. In fact, you and I define this scholarship as one of the thousands of students who are in Ukraine, and it's a big selection. That's why we're so many, we're all going to the rostrum, we're beating ourselves in the chest, and we're saying, "we're Ukrainian people, we're Ukrainian youth." Now this vote is going to show us how we vote for our young people, who unfortunately are going abroad today, and that's where they define their future. Dear colleagues, it is a small debt and it is our duty to vote today in order to provide one of the thousands of students with a scholarship from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I understand that this is not about material values, either about the cow, or about the forest round. We're talking about young people, about young people who are going to create the future of our Ukraine, about the capitalization of our young people here in our country. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to leave the hall, to understand that you will now have to go to the districts and speak in front of people, and every last name that you do not vote on, let the students of Ukraine know who is against their scholarship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u133	Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. Please give Taras the Cremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u134	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, dear parliamentarians! Let's remember, each of us, students, when we were on the benches of colleges or technikums, universities or institutes, we were waiting the same way that day when the scholarship came. Unfortunately, in the '90s and 2000s, we, students of Ukrainian universities, were not able to count on scholarships. Today we have the opportunity to support the talent of young people, who represent Ukraine at international competitions, who are winning the Olympics, which allows today to raise the ratings of Ukrainian universities at the TOP-100, both Ukrainian and European educational institutions. This enables them to stop the flow abroad, to create powerful technology parks, to participate in the opening of new laboratories, to enter postgraduate and Ph.D. These small amounts that we're going to be sending to our student youth are our modest thanks for the enormous work that our students are doing, including, in the 14th year, taking up arms to protect Ukrainian borders, this is our young people, who are now, in advance, continuing to study at Ukrainian universities, these are forced displaced people, these are children who are studying at forced educational institutions in Ukraine. Let's take a huge step to meet our young people and show that the name scholarships and the support of the Supreme Council are extremely important, essential, fundamental and sign. People's Front votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u135	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Nemirowski Andry Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u136	I pass the word to Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u137	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, dear friends! In fact, sometimes it reminds me of our work, you know, when the oncophagus is released at the last stage of the adjective on the forehead instead of treating systematically what is unfortunately already in critical condition. Today we have to talk about national stimulation of first place of employment for a student, for a graduate of the Ukrainian Higher. Today we need to talk about creating technology for young engineers, for scientists, so that young Ukrainians can find applications. And unfortunately, we give a bonus, it's a necessary thing, of course, that's the best thing to do, and it really adds some motivation. But today we have reformed higher education institutions to the point that in the last two months there is a shortage of teachers. Let's be honest, we're not going to save the situation in general. First of all, we need to increase the minimum student scholarship to the minimum minimum minimum minimum of living, and that's what we need to do right now. Young people will then respect the country in which they live, not only as the Motherland, but as the country to which they are associated tomorrow. Please support this bill, but I demand that the Committee of Systemic Proposals for the Rescue of the Ukrainian Education System and the rest of our young Ukrainians remain in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u139	From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u140	Give me your word, Annie Romanovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u141	Anna Romanova, Self Help Union. "The Self-Help Union is constantly calling for support for young people, supporting students to stay in Ukraine. Of course, we will vote for this legislative initiative. But look what we're voting for: in fact, we're increasing the grant by just 300 and 400 dollars, which is about. Is it real help for young people? No, it's not. Moreover, we want to raise questions about the lack of incentives for young people to learn in the system of vocational education. First of all, although Self-Help was fighting for the maintenance of the factory system, this year we lost very valuable schools, heads, technicians that formed the basis for jobs in our country. Moreover, today there is discrimination and imbalance between scholarships for students in higher education and for students in vocational education. Yes, the students of the trades, they're even in their scholarships, they get less. What are the incentives and motivations for young people who have a job preference, because today we have a lot of economists and lawyers who are now on the job market when Ukraine is so short of workers in the workplace? So Self-Help calls for real incentives to maintain a system of vocational education institutions and to really motivate young people to go there and then work in Ukraine for these, so-called Ukrainian jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u142	Thank you. So, colleagues, in three minutes we're moving to making a decision, so I'm going to ask everyone to come to the hall. It's from the Radical Party, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u143	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Of course, we will support the decision to increase scholarships for our students to the best, but just as a single increase in pensions was made by the Supreme Council a few weeks ago, just as a single increase in scholarships. And this is for the best students, for the best hundreds of Ukrainian students. And millions of other Ukrainian students in higher education, PTU, who today are not able to learn properly, to gain knowledge and work, then some sciences create works, they can't survive normally for these scholarships. That's why we're definitely behind the total increase in education, the increase in pensions for our students. And most importantly, today, vocational and technical education is left simply by the State, transferred to local budgets, which are not being managed, which are not interested in developing vocational and technical education, where the most important thing today is the employment of the workers. And these jobs in Ukraine today are catastrophically lacking, because normal students are going abroad, where in Poland, in Europe, they're being taken with their feet, they're offering huge scholarships, they're offering housing, they're offering conditions so that they can learn properly. Instead, we lose these students and we only raise them by a penny. A country that does not invest in education that does not invest in science will never be economically developed. Today our state is investing and our power is being placed in the courts, in the prosecutor's office, in the police. What are we building? A police state? Where are we going to make money? The courts will bring in the money? This is the wrong policy that the Radical Party is up against. We offer to support our students, to support our scientists. And then we can only be rich and rich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Colleagues, please don't step out of the hall right now so we don't put the vote down. Now in a minute, I'm going to give the factions that didn't act. 1 minute - Šurma, 1 minute – Shahov, 1 minute – Ivan Kirilenko. But please be as brief as possible. And I'm going to continue this session until the end of this discussion. And invite everyone into the hall. Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u145	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, let's answer this question: is it easy for us to find people in the working sector of people's economies at work after they finish, professionals after they finish their studies in technics, at the I-II level of accreditation? No, it's not. Why? But the whole point is that whoever is even studying there is then leaving the territory of Ukraine. People always say that this is an unmotivated position of such satisfaction on the part of the state in the form of scholarships. Today, it's a scholarship raise that's just funny money, but it's some kind of show of state to those students who are trying to learn today. It is up to them, regardless of what form of education, budget or salary, that people want to know their place and their attitude in that State. If you go to the border and see how those specialists leave the country, you're going to vote in favour of the scholarships a few times more, and we're going to support it as a temporary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Chess. Please, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u147	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, there are enough national deputies in the hall today to support our young people. When I was in school, my first education was in the school, right in the city of Branca. You think that for Shahov, these coins that were given, the scholarships, were very important. And today it's important for our students to get and stimulate those scholarships that we have to vote on today. That's why the political power of "Our Land" and I personally support this decision and ask everyone to unite, all factions, we vote in favour. Sergium Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u148	I'm sure the whole "will of the people" group will support this decision in all its compositions, because you were speaking out of "will of the people." And the closing statement is Ivan Kirilenko. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, and in a minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please take up jobs. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, even a brief consideration of this issue has shown how much deeper the problem of young people in Ukraine is than what we are talking about. We're with the government and all the government in huge debt to our young people: both the first job, and the opportunity to learn, and the possibility of self-implementation, and the possibility of extended housing, and much more. Along with this, we owe a huge debt to the education sphere, to the students, to the science in front of ours. We have no idea what the consequences of this will be in the near future, and today, starting with the outflow of young people from Ukraine. This is the exact answer, the exact answer, but let's at least start with it. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. We call on everyone to support as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m0.u150	Thank you. I'm sure your colleagues will be right with you. So we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. The discussion demonstrated the general support of this law. Please come in and take your jobs. And I'm voting on a draft amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships to students of higher education institutions on the re-size of the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 9171). Colleagues, we will support our students! Please vote and support 9171 as a whole. Vote. We'll support it. Please be supportive. Vote. All factions vote, all factions support. [[14:01:33]] For 223 We didn't make it, I see we didn't make it. Please take up jobs. I'll set up a return and then I'll decide again. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Sergei, the card with you? It's here, isn't it? Okay. So the first vote. Please return to Project Regulation 9171. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Vote. [[14:02:12]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again. Please, colleagues, be seated during the vote. Come in, there's a voice. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Decree 9171, and I ask everyone to vote carefully. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. Careful! Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:02:54]] For 227 We're back. And, attention, don't come out, take your jobs! Colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Decree 9171 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Carefully, each voice matters! Vote. We support the students, we support our young people! Vote. Vote. [[14:03:31]] For 233 It's been decided. Congratulations, fellows! Welcome to our students' decision-making. Thus, by noon we had considered the security and defence bloc, the educational law, the Remembering Dates Ordinance. There was a successful, effective job. But now we have to call it a break. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And after the break, we'll move on to the next question of order of the day, this is the Bill of Order 9319. At 16 o’clock, please arrive in the hall to continue our difficult work, but this is required for the country of work. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 4:00.
