ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for registration and please register. [[10:04:48]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel. Welcome, Mrs. Alexandro. Happy birthday. Have a good job! Good luck! [[Applause]] And in Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinz. Mr. Dmitri, welcome to your birthday! You will succeed in fighting for the Ukrainian state! [[Applause]] And also, colleagues, today the Ukrainian police are celebrating their professional festival. And I sincerely want to welcome all of us, especially our law enforcement officers, to the National Police Day. [[Applause]] The creation of the National Police in the 15th year is not just a name change, it is a fundamental transformation of the law enforcement body and one of the most successful reforms of modern Ukraine. Welcome to the festival. Praise the Ukrainian police! Welcome, colleagues. I'll remind you, today, on Wednesday, 30 minutes of performances by national MPs for proposals, statements and messages. And I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. Paul Kishkar is the first to be invited. He's handing it over to Krivenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u2	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you know that the President issued the decree "10 Years of Ukrainian Language." Perhaps it would be better to make a year of Ukrainian so that there is someone to ask about the results, but it is good that there is this decree. Under this decree, the government had to form a working group within one month to encourage experts, and for two months it was necessary to decide on the development of the Ukrainian language. We gathered for a briefing with Paul Yuhimovich Grizenko, the director of the Institute of Ukrainian Language, a member of the National Movement of Ukraine, with Yuschuk Ivan Pilipovich, whose textbooks taught all the higher educational institutions. And it was symbolic when one of the journalists pulled out the book "Ukrainian Language" and came up with an autograph for John Pilipovich. Larissa Nica, who struggles tirelessly to protect the Ukrainian language. We did a briefing 15 days ago that said that the government never called the experts to this task force and that we're going to be very worried that the development of the Ukrainian language development programme would be disrupted. So we called on our fellow MPs, called on everyone who cared to make proposals to the development agenda. There's a separate tab on the rukh.team site where you can do it now. And what are we going to collect in 20-22 days? We group them together and hand them over to the government so that it has 20 more days to create this program and to adopt it, and to really contain real proposals. There was a meeting yesterday by a scientist at the Ukrainian Institute. We're waiting for their proposals. Likewise, I urge my fellow MPs to make their proposals, this joint initiative should be. We announced the creation of an interfractional union. John Omelyanuk, the head of the Movement for Ukrainian Language, who conducted a lot of action, made it possible for us to form an interfractional "For Language" union. And I call on colleagues who are interested in this subject, carefree, to join us, we'll register it tomorrow. I think there's no secret that we're consistently defending Ukrainian language, that we're co-authors of the Ukrainian Radio Language Bill, that we're constantly explaining the pragmatic role of language, that there is no "Russian world" in Ternopol, in Ivano-Frankivsky, not because there are nuclear warheads or those areas are members of NATO, but because there is Ukrainian cultural space, because language is the basis of national culture, national culture is the basis of the desire to have a nation. And when a language is destroyed, a person becomes the bearer of another culture and as a result is the bearer of another nation's order in this territory. So our neighbors fight so aggressively for their language, so they promote it, they develop it first, because there are unscrupulous plans for the annexation of part of our territory, and we see it now in our war with. So I would like to invite a colleague to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. And Alexander Wilkul is invited to the floor, who is given the right to speak by his colleague, the national deputy of Kolesnik. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u4	Dear people of Ukraine, remember how large-scale miners were struck in July of '89. It took exactly 29 years, and it was the miners who were protesting again throughout the country. In order to pay off the debt to government mines, we demand the adoption of Bill 8362, where the wages of coal miners are foreseen and the development of the last 33 government mines that are still working, because if they stop, we will have to buy coal not only in Pennsylvania, but even in any mumbu-jumbu. There will be another conversation tomorrow, for people who are not afraid to work at depths of about a mile and a half will come to the walls of the Supreme Council. It is a disgrace when the government of a country in which some of the world’s largest coal reserves meet barges with American coals with hymns, and their wages are not even paid. They have lost touch with reality. How can we talk about its adequacy if several NAC Naftogaz government officials write out more than a billion premiums -- that's more than a thousand miners' debt. And these managers have already received over $20 million, and miners are starving. I meet citizens all over the country all the time, and they're furious about what's going on. They no longer believe in false victories both in Ukraine and even in Europe. That's what the numbers are talking about. Direct investments from the EU into the Ukrainian economy fell one and a half times: from $41 billion in 2013 to $27 in 2017. This is Europe's real response to the real state of things, corruption, war and inefficiency of power. It is important to understand that investments are declining, but Western bankers are waiting for this authority to finally conquer the country to buy everything here at no cost, including, above all, land. In order to remedy the situation, it is necessary to change the power of elections and become as pragmatic as possible in economic development. We demand that the bills we have drafted to support industry and the country's withdrawal from the crisis be immediately adopted, and first of all, 8362 on payments and wages to miners. Stop bullying people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Please welcome national MP Mikhailo Bondar, who is being delivered by national deputy Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u6	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. For the third day, miners have been starving at Vladimir Wallinska mines in Volinska. They're starving because they don't pay their wages. The law, which has just been mentioned, is 8362, is not in order this week, unfortunately. But yesterday I did negotiate with the members of the budget committee, and there's a very good chance that today he'll be considered on the committee, and yet I hope that a positive decision will be made and put into the agenda for the fourth time. Indeed, by associating with the heads of the trade unions, they assured me that tomorrow, beneath the walls of the Supreme Council, the same miners are meeting again for a peaceful action in support of Bill 8362. I still want to ask the members of the budget committee again, so that today, first of all, the subcommittee will consider this bill and include it in the agenda of its deliberations on the committee. I'm going to try to be the author of this bill today, I'm going to be there, I'm going to tell you all the risks, "for," "against" this bill. But what I want to point out is that the cost of this bill is going to go directly to the acquisition of equipment for clean passages, to the acquisition of stationary equipment and a small part of it, there's 200 million going to go to pay off the salary. I would like to stress again that if we don't upgrade the mines, if we don't invest in the upgrade of this equipment, we're not going to make it, we're going to have to pump those mines every year. If we invest and give them the opportunity to continue making money on their own, this problem will be solved. Any reform, loving law without financial reinforcement, will not be possible. So I will call, once again, for the budget committee to accept it, to include this bill 8362 on Thursday in the agenda and to vote in our session room for this bill. I think that the problem of miners for at least this year and for years to come will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor! And now Svetlana Vojciekhovsky is giving the word to his colleague Igor Guzu. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u8	Dear friends! 19th constituency, Igor Goose. In fact, on the third day, miners from Mine No.10 "Novolinska" don't go up with a fight, demanding wages for April, May, June. When my voters ask me, when we try to build a mine and solve those problems, I say, unfortunately, the tools we use so far have been ineffective: performances, briefings, fishing and so on. I would like to contact the deputies here to join me on Friday to hold the throat of Igor Nasalik. He's a coward who's been afraid to come to Volin for two and a half years and meet with miners. It's a coward minister who's been assigned (I don't know where) to destroy the coal sector in Volina. Not enough that he doesn't come, once, not enough that system pay failures don't give money to upgrade equipment. The main question is, man has no understanding of how to further develop the coal sector directly on the Wall. It's a shame to say that Vladimir Groissman should have paid attention, there were a couple of my personal phone calls, take Nasalika's shrimp, make him go to Volin, collect miners, collect unions, collect local self-government, try to find ways out of this situation. Sadly, nothing is happening. In fact, there will be Volline miners here tomorrow, but I personally as their deputy have no argument. I won't ask them to come again and so on. Exit one is the peaceful march of miners Volina and Galicina to Kiev. We'll walk to get Nasalika to come to us, so that, at least after 2.5 years, he can see how he's going to get out of the situation. I'm very sorry to say that in this room we're only swearing in the government, but we've been in debt for three months, the money's going to be returned, and there's no system approach, unfortunately. The 10 shaft needs to be built, the miners need to get back to their faces, not to hide in the bushes. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u9	Thank you. People’s deputies, Andrew Illenko, are invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, today the Supreme Council should, in our view, react immediately to the situation in Kiev, which is around the Postal Square, where, you know, the unique historical monuments of our glorious history, our Prince of ancient Kiev, have been discovered. In fact, the entire street that has been preserved since that time was a thousand years old. And at the same time, we see that the city authorities at the head of Klick and the majority in Kyivrad have actually led to the construction of a new shopping and entertainment centre, and in fact this unique historical monument could just be destroyed. And instead of promoting our history, instead of making a museum space, instead of engaging tourists in this way, as the whole world does, having the more unique heritage that we have and has Ukraine, and having Kiev, in fact barbaric, in a brutal way, it's trying to destroy in the midst of a bunch of plots that just want to build another commercial property and spit they wanted on Kiev, they wanted to spit on the China, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on Ukraine. So we have to stop this. And according to the Supreme Council yesterday, there was a day-to-day draft decision to settle the issue. And we, the representatives of Liberty, in particular with colleague Yuri Lewchenk, have also submitted an appropriate draft alternative decision, where we propose that we clearly identify and clearly address this issue. Obligate the Cabinet of Ministers to take the necessary steps to preserve historical and cultural heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. Apply an object of cultural heritage to the appropriate category of “Remembrances of National Meaning. ” And the main thing is to create a National Museum, the center of a medieval city in the area of opening a monument in the Postal Square in Kiev, and thus to make it impossible for any construction processes in this area. To have a museum there so that people can look at our history, at unique monuments. This is the place where Prince Vladimir baptized Russe, who was baptizing the Chinese, began baptizing the Russians from this very place. This is where the Potaic River fell into Dnipro once, and that's where the ancient Russian street of Kiev was, and now they're just trying to destroy it. If the Kyiv city authorities cannot resolve this issue, then let the Supreme Council take this issue and stop this nonsense that is now happening there will protect our historical memory. And in general, I'm talking to the Chinese, and we have to stop putting up with this power of marauders and people who don't even know what Kiev is, what our city is. They must all be driven to their necks and there must be authority in Kiev, which is Kiev’s and which will sustain our history, to protect our memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Please welcome Sergey Sobolev, who is presented by his colleague Sergey Eutuszek. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Eight months left before the election of the President of Ukraine. And the games that are taking place around the formation of the Central Electoral Commission and amending the legislation that we've adopted here in the first reading, I mean, the Electoral Code, in fact, don't give us any reason to optimistically see that there is a desire to change the standards that have been applied to President Janukovic's election and that allowed us to falsify the results of the elections. In fact, we are now in a state where the Central Election Commission and its individual members from 5 to 3 years of age are illegal. If this is the case with today's President of Ukraine, which enables us to control the Central Election Commission in an illegal way, we, the Fatherland faction, do not do that. We draw the attention of the Parliament and the President to the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted a resolution in this way that it will be the case that the representation of the Central Election Commission should be all parties that have factions in Parliament. This is a clear norm required of Ukraine by our international partners, the failure to comply with this norm leads to sanctions imposed on Ukraine. Why is delay taking place with the Central Electoral Commission? I don't understand. The same story: why is not the issue of amending and supplementing Ukraine’s entire electoral legislation brought to the fore, and above all, the election of the President. Or are they dragging back to the last moment to try to make changes that no one else can control, where an unnecessary fish can be caught in the murky water? We won't let that happen. And the Fatherland faction requires an appropriate list of 13 candidates, as required by Ukrainian legislation and international law, and to approve the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, and to go to the legislative review of the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u13	Thank you. And the invitation is, I take it, Victor Halasyuk, who is given the right to speak by his colleague Alexy Kirichenko. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u14	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday Parliament took a very important step to protect Ukraine's national interests. A law on the criminalization of roundwood smuggling and conservation of Ukrainian forests was passed. You know, in Parliament, we chose a 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine. It's working today. He's already increased his investment in the field by twice, created tens of thousands of new jobs, increased raw exports. But you can see, unfortunately, that there are cases of systemic smuggling of roundwood forests when, in the form of wood, it's being driven abroad, and along with this forest, Ukrainian jobs, Ukrainian income, prosperity and perspective are going with raw materials. Yesterday, at the initiative of the Radical Party, a strategically important law was adopted which, first of all, establishes a severe criminal responsibility – up to 12 years in prison for smuggling roundwood, secondly, prohibits the smuggling of wood, prohibits the removal of wood from Ukraine, because it is driven, including roundwood. Ukraine has every opportunity to make fuel out of these wood inside the country. We need fuel. Not to buy imported gas, import coal, but to do, including biofuels, to ensure the country’s energy dependency. There is also a very important norm in this law, which essentially removes all questions, all potential claims to Ukraine by international trading partners to comply with our trade agreements. So this means the guarantee of a moratorium on the export of roundwood. We're going to save the Ukrainian forest -- we're going to develop the Ukrainian industry, we're going to provide jobs for Ukrainians in Ukraine. [[Applause]] In addition, yesterday -- I want to thank the tax committee -- secondly, Oleg Lášk and I were looking at a package of industrial park billings. It's a strategically important package of initiatives for the state, because it's an economic heart of decentralization, it's a magnet for investing in the real economy. These laws require that wages in industrial parks be at least 12,000 dollars. So tax incentives, investment incentives only in exchange for legal employment, for high wages, for welfare, for the welfare of Ukrainians. I appeal to Parliament Speaker Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba for immediate introduction of this package of laws to be considered in Parliament. Moreover, it is included by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the TOP-35 priorities for economic development. This law is about investing, creating jobs, raising wages and pensions for Ukrainians, stopping borrowing from the International Monetary Fund, developing our own economy, it's a policy of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u15	Thank you for your statement, and the National MP Skorik is invited to address his colleague, National Deputy Galchenko. Please, Mr. Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Going out to this parliamentary rostrum today made me adopt the Supreme Council Bill No. 8251 on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine last session. This bill has nothing to do with supporting cinematography. Our faction did not vote in favour of him, and more than that, the bill proposes the termination of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Privatization, Deprivation, Entrenchment and Entrenchment of All Forms of Ownership of Shares in the State's Permanent Capital of the Odessa Cinemas Association. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality is defined as the main in the registration of this bill, although the issue of withdrawal of moratorium and privatization is by no means part of the subject of the Committee's knowledge, in accordance with the Supreme Council's Order on Listing, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call." The situation with the Odessa Film Studio has been difficult for many years. In fact, since 2005, the film studio has been private. All these years, there was nothing that prevented shareholders from developing the film industry in Odessa, from continuing the famous traditions of Odessa Film Studios, but that didn't happen. Moreover, the rights to all films made by the Odessa Film Studio in the past years have been strangely passed on to all the masterpieces by a private firm, and the Odessa Film Studio does not get a penny out of it. I don't think it's possible to deal with the issue of withdrawing privatization from the Odessa Film Studios because it's not really just the "gold" ground in the center of Odessa, whose market value is approaching $70 million. It's a film studio that made a lot of masterpieces for Ukrainian cinematography, for Ukrainian culture. I think that, in considering the second reading of this question, the Committee and the Supreme Council should actually have a rather serious dialogue with the actual owner today of the Odessa Film Studio, and it's not a state. We have to do everything we can to prevent the possible re-profile of the Odessa Film Studio in order to leave the Odessa Film Studio as a film studio for the offspring, our offspring, the people of Ukraine and Ukrainian culture. And this process should be conducted in a transparent manner both at the committee meeting and in the Supreme Council Hall, otherwise the bill should be voted in favour of the second reading in no way, and I call for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Please make the next statement. National MP Kuprienko. Cooper, national MP. He gives the word to his colleague Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u18	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Chaos, anarchy, irresponsibility -- all these shameful phenomena are no less an enemy to the Ukrainian state than external aggression. All of these elements are destroying the Ukrainian state from the inside. The leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljasko, has taken the initiative of constitutional reform, which will restore order in the country, discipline that will give Ukraine strong power and turn Ukraine into a strong state with wealthy citizens. A strong Ukrainian state is impossible without a strong Ukrainian police force. Today, the National Police of Ukraine celebrates their day. Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome all those who honorably wear the form of Ukrainian police officers, all those who protect Ukrainian citizens from thieves, from the external aggressor in the east. Is it the perfect Ukrainian police at the moment? No, of course not perfect. Do all policemen deserve respect from the Ukrainian people? Of course not. There's a lot more work to do, and the police clearance process is inevitable. Like, I am convinced that the inevitable day when a Ukrainian like an American, like an Israeli citizen, will be proud of his police officer and will certainly understand that it is his sole advocate, not the one who violates his rights and freedoms. Ukrainian police are now tens of thousands of policemen protecting Ukraine in the east, protecting Ukrainians inside the country. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I have someone to thank: it is to thank the dead guard of my guard, Ruslan Kushner, who was a former Berkutu fighter and later a special unit, who gave his life to protect me; to thank the searchers who opened up the attempt on me. I address the Ukrainian police, welcome to the festival, and wish for cleansing and new achievements, discovery and victory over crime and the external aggressor. Oleg Light's radical party always.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u19	Thank you for your presentation. And the People's Deputy Stephen is invited to the floor. Oleg Barna. Excuse me, Mr. Olege, if you'll excuse me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u20	Praise Jesus Christ! Obviously, observing the meetings of the Supreme Council and the calls of the Head of Parliament for our deputies to enter the Hall and adopt a bill by personal vote is a great responsibility for all of us in front of the Ukrainian people, who are watching the broadcast of meetings. Because they are our employers, and we are doing the function that the Ukrainian people authorized us to do. Obviously, we have to say that the written and electronic registration of deputies improperly guarantees their presence in the hall. Because when they register, they can leave the Supreme Council. And the gain from the deputy's salary for not being here and working in the Supreme Council is unfairly disciplining them. Because the majority of deputies or for most deputies, the salary even this, at the hands of 27,000, is not special. And they live at the expense of other payments because they are related to a business or. "the widest leg." Clearly, therefore, we need to accept the means of influencing the discipline and care of the deputies who are required to be in the Hall under the fear of losing the parliamentary mandate for which they went here to the Supreme Council. Therefore, I have proposed a bill amending article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, supplementing paragraphs 8 and 9 with regard to the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy, where paragraph 8 foresees if, at the end of the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Deputy did not vote in fifty percent and more of the votes in favour of the draft laws and regulations of the Supreme Council during the two sessions without valid reasons or if, during the four sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National MP did not participate in fifty percent or more of the votes in favour of the draft decisions and regulations, irrespective of the reasons. Explain why. Because even if a longtime MP can heal, there must be a limit to everything. It is not a reason to leave the general’s authority during war if he is being treated for more than a year. Our country needs change, and we have been empowered by the people to make these changes. So I ask all the MPs to support my bill with their signatures -- 150 that need to be collected in order for this bill to be registered with the Supreme Council, as it changes the Constitution. And they must all be equal not only before the law of Ukraine, but also their responsibility in relation to work, both to deputies and to any citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Irina Heratchenko. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear friends, dear colleagues! More and more disturbing information is coming from the Russian Federation regarding the Kremlin’s political prisoners. Yesterday it was known that a young boy was brutally beaten, who three days ago celebrated his 20th birthday in Russian prison, Paul Greeb, during his field trip to Rostov-on-Don. Recently found in a mental hospital in Magnitogorsk, Stanislav Clicha, who declared solidarity with Oleg of the Shadow of Hunger. Similarly, Oleg of the Sun has been starving for more than 50 days and has not been shown to Ukrainian consuls or to the world. Therefore, we have every reason to believe that there is a significant deterioration in his health or that he is being fed with mixtures of an incomprehensible nature. Similarly, there is very disturbing information about the abuse of our criminal hero Volodymyr Baluch, who is being held in prison in the occupied area of Crimea. What in this situation, what more effort can we do with you to free Ukrainians from the prisons of the Russian Federation? I would like to remind you, colleagues, that last week during a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, an extremely important resolution was adopted, where not only is there a call to the Russian Federation to release everyone from the Kremlin's prisons but also occupied territories, but there is an exact list of names of all Kremlin political prisoners held in Russia as well as in occupied territories. And it's about Russia's full responsibility for the abuse of Ukrainians. The following week, an extremely important session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will take place in Berlin. And I want to go to the sessionary with an invitation to adopt a resolution, to approve the statements of the Supreme Council to our partners, to the colleagues of the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as to support the appeal to the Russian Federation, all the more so that the Russians will be in this session, demanding the immediate release of the Kremlin's supporters. Moreover, colleagues, we have published the names of those 23 Russians, criminals who have already been convicted or who are now being investigated by the President of Ukraine, we are ready to hand over the Kremlin for the release of ours. And you know, this list was passed on to Grizzlow in Minsk on a number of occasions, and it was also transmitted in the Nordic format of Lavrov, other representatives of the Kremlin, but we don't have any answers. That is why today we are ahead of the Ukraine-EU summit, before the Trump and Putin meetings, we appeal to our international partners to ensure that the security issues, humanitarian issues, the release of hostages are equally crucial, and during the Brussels summits of the EU-Ukraine and NATO-Ukraine, and also during the meeting of Presidents Putin and Trump, this is a matter of necessity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u23	Thank you. There was a statement from two factions about the break, but they were ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And I would like to ask you to speak to the National Deputy, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u24	Good afternoon, everyone. "The self-help union in Ukrainian politics aims to introduce the principles of Christian morality and common sense. Sadly, there has been a situation in Ukraine that is totally out of harmony with the principles of Christian morality and common sense. Unfortunately, we were led by an economic regulator, which is the National Energy and Utilities Commission. In Ukraine today, there is a totally distorted, discriminatory situation with regard to people living in 16,000, 620 apartment buildings, where house gas counters are installed. What is involved in discrimination and lack of common sense? The method of charging a person living in such a house for gas is according to the people registered in the apartment. I'll give you an example, in Kiev, where a disabled person lives with his mother, these are two people registered. In addition to the apartment where two people are registered, there are four families who are filming the apartment. This disabled person with his mother has a subsidy for the social standard of gas consumption, while the house counter has everything that is consumed in the house. The family of the grantors is unable to pay for this gas physically. The problem is, they have to pay. They only receive a grant within the social standard. Dear friends, The Self-Help Union is today calling on the government to make an immediate proposal -- and this is not an offer, it's a MP's call to the Self-Help Group -- to make a budget for the State's Housing Program for Consumers who receive a grant to install them in their apartments immediately without waiting for the investment failures of a company from the distribution of gas to solve discrimination and the economic upkeep of subsidized families who cannot individually acquire gas counters that range from 2 000 to 500 grubbs per counter to 5,000 grubbs per gas counter. And to our parliament, we also ask today to consider immediately the bills submitted by the People's Front deputies and the Rebirth Group, which are also focused on solving the issue with the house counters, and until housing counters are installed to ensure that the billing is done in accordance with the rules. So, honourable colleagues, Self-Help brings us all to common sense and failure to bring about a complete stalemate and an increase in the number of socially vulnerable people in Ukraine because of an inconvenient economic decision, as it were.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u26	a national regulator that was allowed to install house gas counters. So the government is going to calculate the cost of such a program, and it's going to be up to Parliament to make a decision for this period before setting up the housing counters, and to make the accounting according to the standards that are consistent with the social ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u27	Thank you. We've completed the speeches by the National Deputies, and we're moving on to the agenda. I give the floor to the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u28	So, colleagues, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. To this day, we were looking for bills that would unite in a hall that would be supported by all. And now we have a bill to unify the entire hall, this is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on road mortality (7064). All the factions, in fact all the factions, have confirmed the support of this bill. And that's why I think we have a chance that we can accept it today. Now, colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote so we can take it up with a reduced procedure. And please identify yourself. Who would like us to consider the draft law on a reduced procedure, please vote. Please. [[10:47:07]] For-57 57. There is the political will of the hall to follow full procedure. And that's why we're going to look at this bill. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u29	First of all, I thank Parliament Speaker Andria Parbia for the opportunity we have today to consider this very important law. Our team proposes to establish a dragon’s responsibility for driving drunkards. Last year, in Ukraine, drunk drivers caused nearly six thousand accidents, killing three and a half thousand Ukrainians, half the deaths of drunk drivers. When he pours his eyes out and sits behind a wheel to smoke or go to a dance and kill people, he kills children, men, women, and instead of coming home, people go to a cemetery. We want to put an end to this catastrophe, the killing of drunk drivers on the roads. A drunk driver is a killer who needs to know that if he's drunk he's driving, it'll be one way for him to go to jail. We offer the dragon’s responsibility for drinking after driving. When a drunk driver was caught driving, he was deprived of his life's rights and five years in prison. When a drunk driver committed an accident with victims, he was deprived of his rights for life and at least 15 years in prison. My colleagues, Arthur Gerasimov, Maxim Burbak, approached me and told me whether or not we could establish the responsibility of 200 years of prison when a drunk driver is driving a car. I fully support this initiative, let's go to second reading and write it down so that they can't go out on a permanent basis by giving bribes to the commission, on parole and so they can't kill people again. Human life is the highest value. And when a person dies because of a drunk driver, it's unfair and not fair. Let's stop this plague, the killings on our roads. This law will enable the lives of thousands and thousands of Ukrainians, children, men, women, grandparents to be preserved. Anyone who travels on the road and this road instead of bringing him home often leads to the wrong place. Parliament made an extremely important decision yesterday to criminalize the smuggling of roundwood forests. An extremely important law that will enable the preservation of Ukrainian forests for Ukrainian citizens. Today, Parliament has a chance to pass an equally important law on dragon driving responsibility for drunkards. If Parliament adopts such important laws every day, it is worth working on, laws that save people's lives, laws that give jobs to Ukrainians, laws that raise the income of Ukrainians, wages, pensions, laws that allow not to trade raw materials and national interests, but to produce and earn what Parliament has to do. That's why every one of us, when people choose here, save, protect, help, no other assignment for me or my team, I hope that this is the same in Parliament. Let's support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Before the report, no, now three minutes of the question. I'm asking you to sign up for the questions of the national MPs, please. Thus, Captain Helen is invited to the question. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for being able to ask a question. I have a question for the drafters. I fully support that this is a very dangerous phenomenon, and we really need to take direct action. You know that there is a very large number, including today, of cases that have not yet been concluded by judgment on the resonance events when drivers, drunk drivers, actually killed people. But I have a question for you, you're proposing sanctions for actual or permanent deprivation of liberty, or 10 years. Such sanctions are not even foreseen in some cases for particularly serious crimes, for example, when it comes to killing many, many people, including the organization of terrorist acts, particularly serious and serious crimes, as defined by the Criminal Procedure Code. Please tell me, what did you come out of when you defined the sanction?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u32	What did I do when I offered dragon sanctions when a drunk man killed behind a wheel? When I watch on TV the tears and grief of those parents who lost their child or the tears of children who lost their parents because of drunks, that's where the sanctions came from. I don't want any of you to see this grief. Because when it's natural, it's old age, it's disease that explains it one more way. But if you're killed just because he's drunk and he's driving, I'd be offering to lynch on the spot. In fact, many people try to do so. Yesterday, in Kiev, an assistant judge of the Supreme Court was detained, drunk at the wheel. Oleg Laszko is a parasite, and that's a name that's gonna embarrass him. 2.8 miles is how many vodkas do you have to sniff to drive?Oh, my God! I thank the police for being detained because if they hadn't, they would have killed someone. So I want the Alkashi behind the wheel to sit in jail and not pose a threat to any of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u33	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. He gives Eutusek the word for questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u34	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to welcome everyone today to the National Police Day, because this bill, which we are currently considering in Parliament, has a direct bearing on the work of the National Police. We have many facts that when we are in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs, we experience a terrible accident. And that's why it's obvious that the "Paternity" faction will support this bill. But we do want to find out some details, Mr. Oleg Valeriovich. Please tell me what sanctions for this legal act are being imposed in the case of the first, let's say, drunks, in case of the second. What will be the outcome for the wrongdoer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u35	How is it being done today? They caught the drunk driving, they took the rights. Then he bought the money and sat down again. I know that these cases were in the Sumskie district, in the Luhansk region, killing people after they had already been detained and deprived of their rights. That is, they buy out, take away their rights, and then commit crimes again. We offer a life - style deprivation of rights when we catch a drunk driving so that no one can ever give him back his rights. And when he's out of the rights he's lost as a result of drinking, he's gone back to prison for five years. I mean, you sit consciously, knowing that you have no rights, you can't be a responsible driver, so go to jail, get changed. Because the Criminal Code just provides for one of the main functions of education and re-education. If he's drunk for cream, he killed someone -- 15 years in prison and a life sentence. I don't see any other way to stop drinking, let them drink to the health of anyone who wants, but don't take the wheel, take a sober friend, let him bring you home, what you're doing driving yourself. And then he doubles, and instead of going to his wife's house, he goes to the tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u36	And the last question is One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u37	I support the idea of the bill in general. Because according to the official data of the National Police, at least 3.5 thousand people die on Ukraine’s roads each year and at least 35,000 are injured. That is to say, statistics are horrendous: more than 9 people die in Ukraine every day on our roads. And there's something to be done about it. But I have a question. Of course we raise sanctions, of course, that's logical. There's a loud traffic accident, especially in Kharkiv, where a huge number of people died. And what do we see? The effectiveness of police action, the prosecutor’s office, the judicial branch of power, when, regardless of sanctions, even in their rigidity, there is a great risk that these people will not be detained, not imprisoned, but avoided liability either through bribes or negligence and so forth. How do you propose to fight such things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u38	It's absolutely the right thing to do, when you buy out a prosecutor's dad, a bag of money, you'll never get a job in jail, and a thief who steals billions will also be rewarded with a medal. This is the question just before the judicial reform: is it in Ukraine, a real judicial reform? There isn't! That's why I'm proposing a genuine judicial reform: that is the release of all judges and prosecutors, and giving the people the right to elect judges in direct national elections, as elected by MPs, as elected by the President in many countries, including the United States today. The day of independence, with which we welcome our strategic ally, is the right, the judges to choose the people. Why the strong United States, why did they start fighting for independence 200 years ago? So that no one on the outside dictates how to live. So I'm proposing a policy so that no one on the outside dictates how to live, so that we can settle in our country, stop the chaos, restore order, and protect the rights of Ukrainians. And so that no thief can be redeemed and brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u39	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement and Law Enforcement examined the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Road Death Prevention (Registration No. 7064). The bill aims to increase criminal responsibility for violations of traffic safety rules by persons who drive vehicles in a state of drunkenness or a state caused by the use of narcotics or other drugs. To this end, the bill proposes to supplement the Criminal Code with a new article 286 with the symbol 1 on "Road Traffic Safety Violations or the use of means of transport by persons who manage means of transport in a state of drunkenness or a state caused by the use of narcotics or other narcotic drugs" and by amending the Ukrainian Laws on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine, at the legislative level, to recognize the threat of national security as an inefficient state policy on road safety. It is worth noting that the Ukrainian National Security Fundamentals Act, adopted by the Supreme Council on 21 June 2018 of the Ukrainian National Security Act, becomes invalid upon signature by the President. This bill will therefore need to be adjusted accordingly. However, following a discussion of the bill, members of the committee adopted a decision by 15 votes in favour: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u41	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Mr. Mikola, there will be questions. And please record the question to the committee's co-rapporteur, please. Musei Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u42	Dear, good day, dear reporter! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. Say, please, in civilized countries, such as the United States, the European Union, there is not only criminal responsibility but the treatment of those who are caught driving. There is a drug service and all these drunk drivers are obliged to receive appropriate treatment and rehabilitation. Will this bill be made available? Because, of course, that's how everyone says a lot of things, rather than looking at the medical component of the problem, because they're sick people who are undergoing medical treatment. Will you consider this when considering the bill? And do you think that's the right thing to do in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u43	I think that's correct, your proposal, but the bill doesn't foresee it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Next question from Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u45	Dear Mikola Petrovich, as a whole in support of this bill, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee, I would like to draw your attention to the preparation for the second reading, if we vote today in the first reading of this bill. What's bothering me? I want the national MPs to think and understand in the bill the role of expert in making decisions — drunk or not. You can imagine how the price of bribes goes up for him in this bill. If we ask now what he will determine, whether he was a driver or not, there were these alcoholic beverages in his blood or other devices. Or else. That is, if it is between 5 and 10 years of age and life imprisonment, it is the crazy one who can. Are we already living in such a state that we are insured from the fact that the right decisions will be made by experts, the irreparability of punishment will be in our court and the irreplaceability of it? Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u47	Again, let us pay attention to the fork that will be. A court order's favorite fork is once again the way to bribe. From 5 to 10. Or five, or ten. Let's focus on that. I'd like you to tell me what you're thinking about what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I want to say about the punishment for a fork. Of course, the second reading can be corrected and only such a term of punishment can be made. That's the first question. As far as corruption risks are concerned and as far as experts are concerned. First of all, who's the expert? The expert is a person who has knowledge in a certain area, knowledge and, in conclusion, carries criminal responsibility, that is, for them, criminal responsibility will be anticipated. So predicting absolutely that they will have no corruption risks in the bill, but I am confident that an expert, as in other cases, will be held criminally responsible for implausible conclusions, for unreliable expertise. So I don't see any risk in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u49	Thank you. And a final question from the deputies. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, please. Oleni Sotnik gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the legal part, because you're a professional committee. What about today’s article 67 of the Criminal Code, which already defines a state of drunkenness (or a drug, or alcohol), as a burdensome circumstance that presupposes that punishment can be imposed up to 10 years ’ imprisonment? So what do we do? We're balancing the Criminal Code and for the first time, I'll tell you, in history, when we're actually putting this particular sign in the main part of the Criminal Code. So, how do you tell me, please, that the Criminal Code does not change its balance, what did you come up with when you made a decision on this bill, and why do you support this logic of the author? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u51	First, the committee supported it. You actually have logic in your words, and you say it right. I think by the time we read two, we can fix it. So I agree with how, with you as a good lawyer, I fully support your opinion, but I think we can fix this by the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Mikola. Thank you for your cooperation. Colleagues, we're on a faction show now. Mr. Mikola, you can take your place now. And I'm asking everyone who wants the factions to come forward, to record. So we're recording statements from factions and groups, please. From the Opposition Block to the word Igor Shurma is invited. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u53	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I address you first of all, because it is very sad that today, even if we vote in favour of this bill, in the Hall today, we are hardly gathering at all wishes and in all the Consolidation of 226 votes. That is true, and that is what we need to talk about. The initiative is not what needs attention, it needs support. First and second readings can discuss what changes and penalties can be made. We need to talk about how to synchronize Ukrainian legislation, the Criminal Code with other legislation. But we have to admit that this topic, it is, has not only a legal and legal component, it's also a moral and ethical theme of our society. You know, in order for everyone to understand what's going on, I recommend you, while you're in the districts, go to the hospital reception room and see what state the victims are in. Because death, you know, is to some extent positive. Man died, that's all. How many people are there? And it is sad that the perpetrators are people who use alcohol, who are in a state of drug abuse. There is a very specific situation in Ukraine regarding this issue. This is not just a matter for drunk drivers. We are a unique country. Because it's probably the only country in Europe where a driver can see green blinking light -- he's pushing gas. And it can do so very often, being in a state of, indeed, drunkenness. In our time in this session room, you and I have adopted rules for fines for driving drivers in an unsuspecting state. At the time, I made some adjustments and said that I needed to maximize my fines. There is no need to be afraid of increasing bribes for those who make decisions today. Do you understand how distorted our position is today when we talk about eliminating the need while at the same time thinking about what bribes will be given to the one who makes his decision? Today, from my point of view, we must support this initiative and continue to think about how to improve it. One thing you need to understand is that the trouble that is being caused by the roads must come to an end. And human psychology is that today it is not only money fines that can bring people to their senses. Today and punishment by criminal responsibility, prison can be the "stop" signal that will make people not drink before driving. And don't forget, who's driving? Someone who can buy a car. Anyone who can buy a car has money. A person who has money should think not only of himself but of others who surround him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u54	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word "Eutuszek" Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today is the day on which, on National Police Day, we are considering a law, a bill that directly relates to security, which directly refers to the lives of citizens. I really want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, yes, we've gone and reformed, created a new European model police, but we don't have proper control of the road today. Exceeding speed and a number of other violators, including in the context of today's bill, which we are considering, on governance in an uncertain state, is not properly controlled. I want to say that when we work on the Transport Committee, every session we meet we draw attention to the safety of movement. I would like to point out that the head of the Igor Didenck subcommittee of each session is subject to some regulation of laws relating to traffic safety. I want to say that, according to our joint insistence on the committee, a coordination council was set up at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, headed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine himself. Where two meetings have already taken place, where a number of important issues have been discussed, including the change in DBNs related to the construction of our roads, since they are not only the cause of drunkenness or when the driver is driving in an unsettled condition, but also the absence of safe measures on the roads. I also want to say that we have sad statistics. Today, on our roads, 12 people are killed at the scene of a road accident. And it's just those who die in place. Two or three more men are being added to those who are already killed when they are being taken to the hospital from a road accident. We also have a sad statistic when we see that 40 percent after a road accident properly produced by the National Police, our judges release those drivers. And that needs to be changed. I know that there is such a bill on the Committee for the Legislative Security of the Forced Authorities. And I would like him to be in the session room and we had a discussion, because not only dotically do we need to change legislation, but we need to do it systematically. Therefore, "Paternity" will support this bill and ask Parliament to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u56	The People's Front is Igor Gus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u57	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. I would like to thank the initiators of this bill, because it is a wonderful thing because thousands of people die on the road because potential drunk killers are driving. This whole conversation here is that we didn't count something in the Criminal Code, let's work on it, or maybe it means too hard. No, you really need to make the potential drunk killer fear to drive. I can’t tell you about thousands of people who lost their loved ones and loved ones on the road because they were killed by drunkards. And that's why I think this bill should be adopted. On the other hand, today, Wednesday, you look at the hall, if the voters now see, maybe the camera should show. Unfortunately, in this room, I don't know if there are even 226 deputies, and that's really embarrassing. But the bigger question, because as parliamentarians we have to go against not just drunks driving, the very difficult question is the sale of surrogate alcohol, especially in villages, the Polish zone. We're dying. There are villages where a third of the people are already lying in a Syrian land just because law enforcement is actually doing nothing about selling illegal surrogacy alcohol that destroys local men, so to speak, men, first. And this is where it all starts because you drank cheap alcohol, wasted it, got on the wheel and killed a man. So I am deeply convinced that this law should be passed if it is not accepted in this room today, it should be posted for the next week, because it is really necessary to install drunkards who are driving, to fear, and to fight corruption together with those experts, and with dishonest law enforcement. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u58	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Igor Mosiychuk is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u59	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party As coauthor of this bill, he would like to explain briefly his logic to those who still doubt. We suggest that we compare a person who was driving an alcoholic drunkard to an accident that led to the death of people, to a premeditated murder, because, in fact, this is a premeditated murder, because a person who is in a state of drunken driving is all the same as taking up a gun and shooting people with his eyes tied. That's the logic of this bill. We can talk a lot here about the balance-balance of the Criminal Code, I think these issues can be addressed in the second reading. But the idea that now in the war on our roads is killing drunk drivers more than the enemy on the front is a fact. And we have to stop these murders. Those who do not now vote in favour of this bill will go to coffee or do not come to a meeting today, simply give a signal to the Ukrainian community that they can drink, can drive in a state of drinking, and can kill Ukrainians. I don't want these signals to reach society. Our team, the Iron Team of Oleg Láška’s Radical Party, insists on the acceptance of the dragon’s responsibility for committing alcohol abuse. What's more, we're going to initiate order in the country, our leader, Oleg Lazko, is going to initiate the highest penalty for drug users. Drug dealers and drug dealers have to sit in prisons for good. And let us then be called non-liberals, non-democrats -- whoever, but order in the tap can only be established by establishing a strict responsibility. "We are order, we are prosperity." It's the slogan of the Radical Party that we're going to stand up for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u60	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Helen Stotnik gives the word to Mrs. Romanov. Please, Mrs. Hanna, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we are now talking about the need to greatly increase the penalties for all alcohol - intoxicating accidents. "Unification Self-Help," of course, always advocates that everyone be responsible for their actions, but let's think about the root cause of what's going on. 37 percent, or more than a third of all accidents, especially with an airway, occur in a state of drunkenness. Because of what? Because in 2017 Ukraine came to top-3 countries with alcohol levels. So we've taken a disgraceful second place in the amount of alcohol consumption. And most of the time, who's using alcohol? Young people, children. We're losing a working population. Those people who have a car who drink in the car die, and that's normal for them. So first of all, we have to fight for a healthy way of life, so that Ukrainians do not sleep, so that Ukrainians do not die of alcohol. Now we're talking about road mortality, and think about how many Ukrainians are killed by what they are, women can't give birth because they're in the way of alcoholism. Remember, we were already increasing fines in 2015. But if you take statistics, the number of traffic accidents after the increase in fines did not decrease, on the contrary, the road mortality increased even further. So what I'm saying is that there's now a terrible underfunding of healthy lifestyles and sports, and these are the areas that will help Ukrainians become a healthy nation and simply not drink driving. Now, the Self-Help Unit is stressing that we increase the financing of physical culture and sports, promote healthy lifestyles, fight unemployment, which is why people sing. They also fought corruption in the law - enforcement system and in the judicial system that just releases those criminals who committed driving murders in drunkenness. Only then will we be able to combat the mortality and alcoholism of the Ukrainian population.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u62	And here's Sergey Kaplin's invitation, please, from the venue, from the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u63	With regard to the support of this bill, I think that every naphtha that is remembered can have no doubt. Clearly, punishment and sanction for being in an alcoholic drunkard should be likened to a deliberate one. Attempted murder on purpose. The second important element is responsibility, and you and I are responsible for how we, in what condition, in particular in Parliament, voted here before. I would like to remind you that 24 years after the declaration of independence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, alcohol was sold in buffets and often, when making budget decisions, other important stress decisions for the national deputies, they made them intoxicated. And only two of the most recent convocations have a clear policy in the House of Parliament. I wanted to pay attention to our fellow countrymen and colleagues here for another cause of road death, which is the state of our roads. I'm often in different parts of the country, from Lviv to Donetsk or Lugansk region, and on these roads it's virtually impossible, every day for a driver who leads a dynamic way of life can be the last. It's the government's fault, "Stolen." However, as government officials arrive to discover the pits they have repaired, this is what makes the entire paphos, the entire electoral campaign, the entire political, political, and technological campaign. I'm going to give you a very simple example, recently the government's leadership came to the Zakarpatsk district, and the day before, they pushed all of West Ukraine's technology into one area to repair the three pits. They hung up a bunch of boards, chased out all the media. After the government chief left, I got a call from our representatives, the unions, the party leaders from there and the ordinary citizens: the technology was like snow falling apart from there, nobody's doing anything, the pits that were left are unrenovated, the pyar campaign is over. What are such governmental initiatives? Coalition initiatives. It's a policy of bonds, it's a government of bonds, it's a coalition of bonds, when there's no systematic approach to health care, it's the health of ordinary people, it's military issues, it's social policy, it's economic policy. Under such conditions, there will be no pensions, no wages, no roads, and under such conditions corruption will flourish in the National Police, in the Public Prosecutor’s Office, in other power agencies, under which conditions thousands of bribes will be taken and, in particular, the murderers who are drunk at the wheel destroy the population of our country. That's why they're needed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u64	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u65	So it's obvious that this bill, which is both dutiful and extremely timely, and extremely professional and convenient, needs to be adopted. But it's only going to be the first step in a clear systemic policy that's going to let us finally solve the road safety issue that will allow us to solve the problem of road corruption, overcoming road corruption. And give a guarantee to our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Please enter into regulations. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, all desirous of factions have spoken. "The opposition block"? There's no wish, okay. Wait, we can't vote, we're going in full. And I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies right now. We have 15 minutes under the Rules. Please. Please, National Deputy Opanasenko, conveys the word to National Deputy Igor Didenko, who is also representing, colleagues, the Committee of Profiles, I must point out. Please, Mr. Didenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell you the situation that we have in the country that we're doing with road safety, how we work together, and what we need to do. In 2015 we held public hearings together on road safety in the country. And they've made some really great documents that are almost all implemented today. We said, let's reduce the country's mortality by 30 percent and give the government instructions on what to do. Today we have three great documents that have not been in the country before -- this is a road safety strategy, a state, then a plan of action and a state programme. The state programme refers to the 5 percent road safety fund that is exclusively involved in reducing road traffic mortality. This is not enough, it is not enough today to understand ministries and departments, that the first thing they need is to look at the documents they have today on road safety. Very often we meet, discuss these issues, but then the documents are very much. lies there, and we don't have the speed to respond to the road safety issue. For example, we now have 324 police cars in the state equipment program that will control the speed of drugs. And this document has to be launched, and the police have to equip the cars to control the speed. We talk a lot about security, but if there's no control, if there's no police stop, control the same state of drunkenness, we'll get nothing -- efficiency. We have Bill 7286 on the Legislative Committee, which has passed, which regulates the relationship between the police and the driver. Therefore, it is also important for us to consider it in the complex that we will be punishing only for the condition of drunkenness. But today there is no reason to stop a person and check his drinking condition. We see a lot of countries in Europe that are now actively involved in movement security, and we have 500 cities in Europe, 500 cities with zero mortality. So it's also very important to deal with areas. We've given funding for district administration roads today, and we haven't given any responsibility. I think today we need to quickly write road safety programs in cities that also include infrastructure solutions, because cities and areas today are responsible for road safety. Everyone sneezes at the government, but we also need to localize both the funds and the responsibility for road safety. I therefore believe that we, as parliamentarians, should help the government quickly to amend legislation that deals exclusively with road safety. I think our help will be in this, if we do it quickly, we will fight the drunks behind the wheel, and with the consequences of the accident, and we will not have 12 people on the road every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u68	Thank you, dear colleague, for, in fact, you've also presented us with the position of a professional subcommittee. I now invite you to the floor of Mr. Rosenblatt's honorary colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A very good bill that has been waiting for many years. Today, really, you know, in Ukraine and in Russia in general. The Russians of Kiev were told that there were two problems: roads and fools. Road fools are, of course, a very difficult thing to do, because so many road traffic violations today lead to tragic deaths. But when a person is still drinking, in a state of alcohol or drug abuse, they're doing terrible tragedies on the roads -- it's really the reality of Ukrainian life today. I just want to remind you that in fact over 3.5 thousand people have died in Ukraine's roads in the last year, a lot of people have been injured. But the situation. The situation, to what it brings, is not only that there is no analytic. There is no warning work, and there is also the condition of the roads on which our cars drive today. As the Supreme Council, we have done everything we can to improve the condition of roads. We've given the so-called "governance" fund -- the road fund -- where local communities have money to renovate roads, but it's on deposits today. They account for interest today. Perhaps it is more convenient than today to repair roads and give people the opportunity to live. As for the police we celebrate today, three years ago in the Gitomir region there was a record, once again a record: the police stopped the car accidentally on the Corstoń-Novograd-Volinsky route and there were more than two tons of amber in the car. I just want to point it out by accident! It's not an analytical job, it's not a warning job. As for the reality that answers today: Today, the forests of Olewska, Korostenia, other cities are filled with the National Guard, and there are people on the borders who have been made fasts. But people carry amber in their bodies. This means that there is no work on the part of the investigating authorities today, there is no warning work. And today, when we point out that there is no responsibility, let's just remember that in Ukraine today, instead of doing the decisions of the courts, instead of doing whatever it takes to warn -- they warn! - law enforcement. Crimes, today we find and fight the consequences. I today call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only to support this bill, but also to make it more difficult for those people to monitor, who should warn about all the crimes. So I repeat: Today we do not always have to fight the consequences, we need to look at the root of all these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Olena Sotnik invites you to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm going to try to raise the situation a little bit and talk about the general problem, let's say, recently, some MPs have made changes to the Criminal Procedural Code. I should remind you that now all the experts are in the knowledge of state institutions, government institutions that have very long periods of time, expert institutions, have serious shortcomings in the timing of these experts, and most importantly, in the confidence in the results of these experiments. It was from the beginning, when I was a lawyer, that they were one of the most corrupt institutions in which decisions were made. either for money or for dating. This means that any person in this situation now, after the changes to the Criminal Procedural Code will be bound and hanged to these institutions, and accordingly we have a very serious risk of corruption when instead of people actually being held accountable, there will be just bribes. Now let's get back to social resonance. Kharkiv. To this day we do not see a verdict, we have ceased to be a public court and accordingly, I think every citizen would like to see the very irreversibility of punishment and the judgments handed down on matters that we already have today. And since we're going to make things worse or worse, the very essence that we don't have a fair trial, that the courts don't make decisions, I'm sorry, the husbands, the people who have connections that have money, it's never going to be rectified in life when we increase punishment. We can increase our punishment. I'll remind you that in China, corruption is the death penalty, but it's not. It didn't save China from corruption. Because first and foremost is trust in the courts, that's what we have to work on, trust in the police, trust in the expert institutions. And as long as citizens don't have confidence in all these institutions, I don't believe that we're going to increase punishment, but there will be fewer violations of the law. Because of the excessive cruelty of the law, it is compensated, first of all, by the non-implementation of its application and, unfortunately, in Ukraine, by the principle of irreversibility of punishment for those who pay or for those who have connections. Too bad. So I encourage the entire Supreme Council to work, first of all, on these issues and to reform the judicial system, to reform the police, not to strengthen the corrupt authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u72	Thank you, dear colleague. And the national deputy of Pobočich gives the word to Mr. Please, Mr. Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, Eurooptimist group, Kiev Majority District. I fully support the idea of introducing a criminal responsibility to permanently be deprived of the right to govern the transport vehicle of a person who deliberately chose between the desire to divert alcohol and the danger that this person would pose on the roads to peaceful citizens who are not guilty of being drunk by means of a vehicle, a reminder of the increased danger that the car is considered to be. Clearly, those who have chosen a drink for themselves before the human being should be severely punished and deprived of their rights are, I think, a very humane way not only to punish them, but also to prevent them from ever risking innocent people who have gone on the road, planning their lives for the future, planning the lives of their families, but meeting a drunk alcoholic behind the wheel. In support of this idea, we have in our time proposed a similar bill that provides for the permanent deprivation of the right to drive, but it also expands the cycle of legal relations that needs to be regulated for the red light. A person who deliberately violates the rules in a red light puts other road users and pedestrians at risk should be held accountable. First the administrative and then the criminal, and the forfeiture. So we are in favor of the idea of depriving the drunkard of his rights. We are proponents and we seek to return to our bill, which includes the deprivation of the rights of alcoholics, but also the responsibility, and the deprivation of the rights of those who systematically violate the rules of traffic by going red. Consider the crime of Hare, where she killed many innocent people by deliberately and deliberately violating traffic rules, moving in red light. And we are all witnessing this tragedy today. So, dear colleagues, I ask everyone to make an effort, to mention that it is important in Parliament to make decisions that are not political dividends or anything else, but are aimed at the interests of every Ukrainian citizen. This bill is just like that, behind this bill are the real lives of the people that we have to save and we can save by voting now. I ask everyone who is in the room today to give their votes in favour and those who are not in the room today to report that this is a disgrace, and you will be responsible for the lives that will be lost until we vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u74	Thank you, colleagues. A vote will take place in literally three minutes. That is why I now give the floor to the National MP Musia, to whom his colleague Sporish gives the right to speak. Next, we don't have a rebirth group, and we're going to give one minute to a colleague of Shipka who's going to give us a position. Final word, a minute is Oleg's Flake, so the MPs don't take a break early. And then, colleagues, you and I are going to vote. Please, Mr. Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Control MPs, the political party fully supports the initiatives that are now being put to our vote. I think that the number of deaths that take place in Ukraine every year from drunks driving is exaggerating even those deaths that take place during the Russian-Ukrainian war. And that's probably even more so when people are suffering from total innocence, because in war we know who the enemy is, and here the enemy seems to be traveling peacefully and then killing an old man, a woman, or a little child. So, clearly, we will be supporting this bill in the first reading. But I would like to go to the authors and initiators of the bill on the quality of the drafts. You know, two years in Parliament are five bills signed by MPs from Peter Poshenko's Block, the People's Front and ours, including increasing medical responsibility for driving. And actually, well, sick people, and from my point of view, those who drink driving are diagnosed with alcoholism, they're sick people, they need to be treated. And if we're even sick, well, we can't keep sick people in jail forever? We have to give them medical attention. So I would ask very much for both the initiators and the profile committee. Because I hope that on the first reading, the bill will be adopted, and I will also take these five bill initiatives on the register of corresponding legislation, on the provision of guidance on the mandatory rehabilitation of people who have been caught driving in a drunken manner. Because they need this rehabilitation, and that's obviously what I think it is for every conscious person. Because you remember our figure girl, Oksana Byul? A very famous Olympic champion. And when she was caught drunk driving in the United States, she went to a rehabilitation center in the U.S. 3-month treatment. Therefore, before increasing criminal responsibility, it will be necessary to make a second reading, and I think that the authors would probably agree here, because this is a legal procedure of the Rules for the second reading – whether or not a separate article can be introduced. So I would like to hear from the initiators that they agree that the medical component must be prepared and introduced to the second reading. That's why the initiative is good. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u76	Thank you for your performance. Dear colleagues, please, from the Rebirth Group, have not been able to take advantage of this right during the factions. One minute, Andrew Shipko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u77	Good afternoon! Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Group, 35 constituency, Nikopol city, Pokrov city, Nicopolsk district. Dear national MPs, dear voters! This bill that we're looking at is very urgent, very important. I'm telling you this as a doctor first. The bill is designed to preserve the lives and health of Ukrainians. And I thank the honourable Mr. Lightman for bringing him to the vote today. Ladies and gentlemen, will this bill decide this matter to the end? I don't think a hundred percent will solve it. But responsibility must be. And the person who gets drunk for driving has to answer. Every Ukrainian, regardless of his property, should not be allowed to take a driving seat by drinking. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u78	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand Wednesday, but I see we're very close. Let's support this bill. And I would like to welcome today, honourable national deputies, so that we can applaud the entire National Police of Ukraine. For these men who serve the people, who have clothed themselves, give you God’s blessing. [[Applause]] And let's support this day not only with applause but also with a nice bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, and our colleague's closing remarks. I'm sorry, we're done, we're done. The closing statement of our colleague Oleg Lacha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we must stop the chaos in Ukraine. Chaos on the roads when people are killed. Chaos, when children were poisoned in Kiev yesterday because they were agreed on to produce non-quality products, they went to the hospital, and no one is responsible. Chaos when they're taking the raw materials out. Chaos when truth and justice cannot be found. Chaos, when they cut down trees, is carried out ungodlyly, and then they're submerged by Carpathians and half-Ukraine. Chaos must be stopped in Ukraine and then the state will be, then there will be a future. To restore order, to restore leadership, order on the roads, discipline in the economy, order of production, order in the authorities, in the courts, in the prosecutors, in the police. Then the Ukrainians will live in a decent country when there is no chaos and order. What we're proposing is a restoration of order, an end to chaos.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u82	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of the National Deputies and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are moving on to the decision-making process. Please do not leave the hall, but come into the hall. Guys, come into the hall. Whoever's in bed, please go back to work. The support of the law sounded in all the presentations. The warnings that were can be adjusted between the first and the second readings. And it seems to me that this will bring the whole room together. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Arthur! Vote. So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on road mortality prevention (No. 7064) on the basis of a committee recommendation. Colleagues, please vote, each voice has a weight, and please support. 7064 on the ground. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:47:12]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'll do as I please. Attention! Please stay with your colleagues. Do not leave the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 72, "National Front" – 51, "Opposition Block" – 29, "self-help" – 8, Radical Party – 19, "Fatherhood" – 13, "will of the people" – 12, "Party of Rebirth" – 8 and non-fractional. Switch to me. Post-fractional is 28 non-fractional. So the next thing we have is ratification. Colleagues, attention! I'm going to run the ratings so we don't put them at risk. I'm asking everyone to vote. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments (0183). I ask everyone to participate in the rating vote so that we can see if there is any chance of accepting this ratification. Please vote, please support 0183. Vote. The rating vote. Ratification ratings have just been explained. [[11:48:36]] For 169 169. Next. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Economic Cooperation (0187). Listen carefully. It's a rating vote. And I ask you to support us to see if there is a chance that this law will be passed. Please vote, rating 0187. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:49:17]] For-174 174. Next. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation on the Readmission of Persons (0192). Please support the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:49:45.]] For 172 172. And the final of the ratification block is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons (0188). Please be supportive. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:50:14]] For 168 168. Unfortunately, there is no support for ratification. That's too bad. We'll be looking for time to get through them. So we can move on to the next question of the agenda, this is the second reading. But before that, I have to read a statement from two factions who came to the presidency from the Self-Help faction. I already had, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry. Just an application to lie down. There was already a statement on this subject. Colleagues, that way. Colleagues, let me ask you, did you give me 7010, a table? The apparatus states that the tables were distributed. Mr. Mikhailo, just a second. Colleagues, the next is draft Law 5435. The draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons 5435. But I'm also going to put him on a rating vote so we don't get hit by this important law. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (5435). As far as I know, this should be supported by all the factions in Parliament, this law. But I'm not going to put him at risk, I'm going to put him on the ratings so I don't put him at risk. But I'm asking everyone to come into the hall so we can see the potential. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Please come into the hall. Please take up your jobs. My colleagues, please, there are few people in the hall now, come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, so I'm voting in favour of the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (5435). It's a rating vote. Please vote, please support, please support. [[11:55:49]] For 133 Unfortunately, we have no unity under this bill. Thus, colleagues, we move on after a break to the next project – the Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of the single window mechanism and the optimization of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine (7009). But it'll be after the break, and we'll start with it. And I'm asking the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of Juliana Petrovna at 12:30 to be in the hall to continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, we have a 30-minute break. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u83	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and continue our work. I invite everyone to the hall, and I want to ask if Krishin Oleg Yuriovich is? Yes. Wait a minute while the national MPs gather. So the hall is mobilized, ready for active work. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of the single window mechanism and optimizing the implementation of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine (No.7010). This is a second reading, a large number of rights, but I hope that we can pass them today so that tomorrow we can have a successful and effective vote. So I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Krishin Oleg Yuriovich. Oleg Yuriovich is on the rostrum. And I invite all the authors to a discussion. I'm going to read things that are rejected if there's any need to apply for confirmation, by raising your hand, let me know, I'll investigate carefully and give my word accordingly. So 5's. Don't insist. One, Deputy Ostrikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You and I are now considering a very important bill amending the Customs Code, and all the permits that are to be submitted to customs are proposed to be submitted electronically to the state authorities that issued them. And this is true of all the kinds of controls that are now going through goods when they're moving across the customs border. These are both phytosanitarys, and vets, and environmentalists, radiologists, all the other controllers, if they've issued a document, they have to put it in electronic form into an appropriate information system, which is administered by income and assembly authorities. And after the first amendment, I just have a question to the reporter, I don't want to put it to confirmation or a vote. The explanation, please, because we exclude section I, paragraph 1, which is the logic of this exclusion so that colleagues and those who are following us today understand what is being excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Auntie. So we've ruled out this item because the formulation of the control is changed to a new one, and this formulation is given in the corresponding article of the Customs Code separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u86	Thank you very much. On the other hand, Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u87	Fellow dignitaries, second amendment of the authorship of national deputies: Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrickova. And I'm also paying attention to you, it's very important for the content of this bill. It introduces a series of concepts: "visual inspection", "official control measures", and the main essence of this bill is the "one window" mechanism. I therefore ask the honourable Mr. Krishin, who will now report this bill to us in more detail on the content of the single window mechanism, which documents and organs will interact with it, because it is now extremely important. We remove the control organs from the checkpoints, we leave only customs and border guards there, and we introduce the concept of visual inspection. So now it's very important that you explain exactly what the content of visual inspection is going to be and in further steps of official control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Auntie. We're going to introduce new terms with this bill. The first term is "visual inspection", which will be used for pre-document control. The second term is "official control measures", which lists all kinds of State control, and does not need to be listed further in the Customs Code, namely: phytosanitary control, veterinary health control, state control over food, feed, animal by-products, animal health and animal welfare. Please take this step into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u89	Do you insist on voting? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, thank you. So next, 5th. Sold. Don't insist. Six o'clock, Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the 6th Amendment also has a very important purpose. In particular, it is envisaged that information systems that are used in the work of income and congregation bodies can function at national and/or international level. And the content of this rule is that we can potentially join the new computerised system of common transit of goods with the European Union and with other participating countries of the relevant Convention on the Single Transit of Goods. So I ask now that the reporter also explain why we really need this norm, how important it is for our European integration and the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union and which. What was said at the last meeting of our tax, customs policy committee with the head of the delegation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Thank you, Auntie, for asking. So I'm commenting. We need these changes to put in place a new computerized transit system in Ukraine called NCTS and the norm that in the State Fiscal Service, the development of software for income and congregation agencies is being carried out by a specialized unit, that is, for. That's why we counted this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u92	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? I'm still calling the reverse adjustments. Please, which one? 8th. Please, Ostrikova, 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, as I have explained, the introduction of the "one window" mechanism provides that all the permits submitted to customs today should be sent electronically to this information base by the state authorities. This is also true of documents that are secret, which you know may appear, such as the Security Service or other competent authorities. And so I'd like to ask the reporter a question, so he can tell us more about what will happen to those documents that have a secrecy charter, and maybe they contain some information with limited access, maybe they contain a public secret. Will the content of these documents be made public while they are in the single window? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u94	Me, me. This was taken into account. Because it's necessary, exactly, to use a single window for a document that contains classified information. I want everyone to calm down, this information will be stored there safely enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Next amendment number nine. Don't insist. He insists. Ostrikov's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the 9th amendment of the authorship of the People's Deputies Krishin, Jujanina and Ostrikov envisions the addition of the Customs Code to Article 33, marking 1, "Implementation of the "one window" mechanism. And it does determine that this mechanism is the interaction between the declarants and the others. their representatives, other interested persons, income and congregation bodies and other adjacent control bodies, who are today issuing permits for the processing of goods. And it's supposed to be all in electronic form. And that's why I'd like to ask the honourable reporter a question right now. What exactly is the information and telecommunications system that will be used to communicate information under the single window mechanism? Will it be a system of income organs and congregations? And how will it function for the adjacent control services? Which will ensure that the requirements for movement are met.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u98	I want to comment. We have nine revisions. What we've put in the new edition is an article of the Customs Code that relates to the implementation of the single window mechanism. It's purely technical, Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Amendment 11. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, the 10th is accounted for. 11th Amendment. Doesn't it insist on a national MP? Don't insist. 12 revisions. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u100	I can comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u101	There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 14, People's Deputy Ostrikov insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, Amendment 14, I would like to point out that this was not in the first reading. And this refers to goods temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by objects of space activity that are subject to the laws of Ukraine on State Support for Space Activities and on Space Activities for the purpose of conducting research or testing. I don't know what kind of relationship this has to do with "the only window." Maybe it's a good norm to support the space sector, but it certainly has nothing to do with the "one window." That's why I'm asking her to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u103	Thank you and ask the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u104	The changes are related to the exemption from guaranteeing compliance with the requirements of the temporary import customs regime for space objects subject to the laws of Ukraine on State support for space activities and on space activities. We're the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Balance of Budget Revenues in the 18th year, and we've adopted amendments to the Tax Code. Without change to the Customs Code, this rule simply does not work. I mean, please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Please comment on the amendment. National MP Chicken, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that's a very good question, and I thank my colleagues for the self-help issue. What's the matter? This amendment, and organically linked to it in this bill under number 59, is essentially a continuation of anti-crisis measures in the missile-space field. It's loading "Southern", it's loading "Southern Design Office" and dozens of other companies that work in cooperatives. The point is, at the end of the 17th year, we gave the corresponding benefits in the Tax Code. But they do not work without the fact that these tax standards are resilient to them. The Customs Code. And that's the law we're taking into account right now. I ask you very much to support these very important changes. It's a job. That's the government budget money, that's the salary for our Southerners. I thank all the factions that support this amendment -- both the Radical Party, and the Fatherland, and the Opposition Block, and the Front Change, and the Will of the People, and the Rebirth, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Next amendment to the 15th. Don't insist. Oh, you asked for confirmation, right? Please, do you insist on confirmation? Please vote. [[12:47:27]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 15. People's deputies don't insist, please. 16th. Don't insist. Amendment 17. Amendment number 19. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Amendment No. 19 of the National Deputies of Krishina, Južanina and Ostrikov refers to the changes to article 222 marked 1 "Documental Control in the Field of International Road Transport". And it's like, if you read it, it's like we can kind of introduce another kind of documentary control in the field of international car transport. Because it is noted that in the points of entry, income agencies and congregations monitor compliance by Ukrainian car carriers with Ukrainian legislation on international road transport, the order of which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And so I ask that the honourable Mr. Krishin explain to us, and to society, the entrepreneurs who are following us, I am convinced, and to the customs of the entire community, what is the point of this amendment? Do we accidentally introduce an additional type of control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. No, we don't. This is a technical regulation that deals with the completion of the Customs Code with a new article on the enforcement of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act by the authorities and congregations. The Automobiles Act defines these powers. It's purely technical. Please take her into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u111	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. Thank you. Next amendment number 20. People's deputies don't insist. Please, Amendment 27. National deputy Tetjana Ostrkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u112	Honorary colleagues, Amendment No. 27 specifies that income and assembly authorities are prohibited from requesting the filing of documents or information by a declarant or a person authorized by him if the Customs Code or other laws of Ukraine provide such documents, information to the income and assembly authorities, government authorities, institutions and organizations. I mean, I'd like the honourable reporter to tell us what's going on right now. That's how the law implements that principle. If a public authority issues a document, the same document should no longer be made available to businesses. All information owned by the State and managed by the public authorities must be available in this information and telecommunications database, the "one window", which is administered by the revenue and assembly authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u113	Thank you, Auntie. This is one of the key norms of this bill. One of the key norms is to ban income and community authorities from asking an importer, an exporter of documents that should be in "one window". It's a key norm, I emphasize. It's clearly stated in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Amendment number 28, People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, as the committee's representative has just confirmed to us, absolutely the entire documentation process, all the documents submitted for customs clearance will be available electronically using electronic digital signatures in this information system "one window." And then the entrepreneurs who participated, the experts with us in preparing the bill for the second reading ask us a question, they have concerns: what if this system goes out of order, can they file these documents in the old paper form? I would very much like to have you explain to us now and take away all the concerns of entrepreneurs that may seem to stop the momentary treatment if the system of electronic incomes and congregations comes out of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u116	Thank you, Auntie, for asking. We have a very clear fuse. In case the system does not work for two hours, the customs office should accept paper documents, paper documents, and paper documents from the declarant. It's a very clear fuse in case the electronic system, the software hangs out or gives out one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Next amendment number. What's that? 29. People's Deputy Ostrkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, amendment No. 29 of the National Deputies of Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrickova. I pay attention to the importance of this amendment, and I would like now to have Mr. Krishin tell us a little bit more about its profound content, namely, what it means that income and assembly bodies use the sole automated information system of the income and assembly bodies to carry out customs clearances in the approved customs regimes for the complete process and control of the movement of goods and means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u119	Thank you, Auntie, for asking. We introduce the obligation to use income and congregation agencies to carry out customs control of the Single Automated Information System. Responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u120	Thank you. The next amendment is 30. Please, People's Deputy Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, well, it's a very important readjustment. The new edition contains article 319 of the Ukrainian Customs Code, which deals with the interaction of income organs and congregations with other authorized authorities when moving goods across Ukraine’s customs territory. Well, actually, it's never been like this before. But I have a question, and in this connection, I ask you to ask it for confirmation, how do you take into account the presence of foreign control authorities at the checkpoints? We've heard of recent government initiatives to combat smuggling, and how much do they respond to these effective measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u122	Thank you. Thank you for asking. So we have article 319 of the Customs Code, which describes in detail the order of interaction with the use of the "one window" of income and assembly bodies, government bodies that carry out state control and declarations. First. Starting at the point of entry through the state border, the previous documentary control, the involvement of the controlling authority, and the destination inside the country. That's the first one. The other one. Clearly defined time limits for the conduct of procedures by the governing body and the revenue and assembly body, as well as the third procedures they carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'd like to ask the people's deputies to vote, but that's something another national MP insists on. Please vote. [[12:55:40]] For-43 For 43. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 31. Someone's insisting from Ostrikava is a national MP. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, in Amendment 31 of the authorship of the National Deputies of Marchenka, Illenka, the Head proposes in the first reading the voting words "mind organs" to be replaced by the words "received organs and congregations". This amendment is considered by the committee, but I disagree with it. Because today, when the Prime Minister announces a decisive attack on smuggling, he forgets that there is no authority in the state to combat customs violations. We don't have a customs office in the Customs Code today. We don't have a customs administration. What body should then combat customs violations, if even in the code of profiles, in the Customs Code, we have been left with an organ of income and assembly since Klimenko’s day? That is why I do not insist on voting on this amendment. I just wanted to bring to your knowledge and to the knowledge of the government that there are no customs and customs authorities today, not even at the level of the Customs Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u126	Thank you. The term "mind organs" is replaced by "income and collection bodies." It's purely technical. That's why we took it into account at our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Next amendment number 32. There's no insistence on a national MP. 33. Don't insist. 34. Don't insist. 35. Don't insist. 36. Don't insist. 37. Don't insist. 38. Don't insist. 39. Don't insist. 40. Don't insist. It's number 41. Don't insist. Amendment number 42. Don't insist. No. 44. Don't insist. And amendment number 45. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, amendment No. 45 of the National Deputies of Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrickova. It suggests in this amendment the words "to exercise the types of control noted in the first part of Article 319. " Replace "take official control measures." And this refers to all the changes in article 319, which had just been the national deputy of the Chicken, its new edition, broken down and accordingly not counted. So I'm now asking the honourable reporter to explain to us in more detail what the content of changing the wording of "to exercise control" to "to conduct official control measures" and where we have the definition of "official control measures" in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u129	45th. Yeah? 45 lacquers. Thank you, Auntie. So we changed article 320 of the Codex in order to harmonize it with article 319 of the Code. Other changes, editorial ones, related to the definition of a new term, are "official control measures." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Next amendment number 46. No, 47. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Amendment No. 47 of the National Deputies of Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrichova. I'd like to ask the honourable rapporteur right now to give us a more detailed explanation of her profound meaning. Because if I understand correctly, it is this amendment that sets out the legislative ban on the organs of income and assembly, and on any state authorities, institutions, organizations that are responsible for carrying out arbitrary or control functions with regard to the movement of goods and means of transport, to require documents in a different form from the declarants or carriers, or other persons than the electronic form, rather than the one-window mechanism that operates on customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u133	I stress that this is a key issue in this bill. It requires the importer, it requires that all of these, from the importer, the exporter, all the documents that will be in the "one window", prohibit the controlling authority from demanding them in paper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Next amendment number 48. 49th. Don't insist. 50th. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Amendment 50 of the authors of the national deputies Krishina, Južanina and Ostriková refers to the automated risk management system used by the income and congregation authorities, and it is determined that this system is part of the only automated information system of the income and assembly bodies. And why did we need to write in general at the level of the Customs Code such a detailed understanding of the information systems used by the authorities of incomes and congregations? This indicates that the automated system functions at the central level and provides for random selection. And so far, we're getting information that in different regions, different regional customs uses different risk profiles, different price criteria, different tariffs, and so on, they call them different, that they allow different customs to create different customs duties. That's why I'm asking the reporter now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u136	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u137	And that allows different customs to determine the different customs value of the same goods. And so I'm now asking the reporter, Mr. Krishin, to explain to us how this amendment will make it impossible for any speculation and no control whatsoever, any different approaches to determining the customs value of goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Auntie. This amendment is related to the functioning of risk management systems in the income and the congregations. There will be a single interpretation of these terms and we will harmonize this system and make it more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment is taken into account, so we're moving on. But of course, we thank Mrs. Ostrov for such an active position as to discuss an important bill. The next 51 is an amendment. Mrs. Tetjana! 54th. Thank you very much. 54th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, amendment 54 of the authorship of the national deputies Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrickova. We've been approached, I understand, by the Committee of the Ministry of Culture with a proposal to transport and export outside Ukraine or send citizens of cultural values to establish a very clear order in which the single window mechanism will apply to the movement of cultural values so that you and I do not get uncontrolled exports outside the customs territory of Ukraine. So I would now like to ask Mr. Krishin to explain to us and to society how this will affect, the adoption of this amendment, the consideration of this amendment, the order of movement across the customs borders of Ukraine of cultural values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Auntie, for asking. This amendment, which takes into account changes in the need to grant permits when temporarily imported from Ukraine, exports of cultural values from Ukraine. That's exactly what she's dealing with. Thank you. Please take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u142	This amendment was taken into account by the committee, and we have heard its explanation, and we thank you very much for working very hard on the drafting of the bill for the second reading. Next thing I know, 55 amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u143	56th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u144	Please, the 56th Amendment, Mrs. Tetjana Ostrikav. This is an amendment from Krishna, a national MP, Mrs. Jujanina, and Mrs. Ostrickova. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! 56. The amendment of the authorship of the People’s Deputies Krishina, Južanina and Ostrikova defines certain restrictions, specifying that certain restrictions imposed by parts one and three, articles 452 of the Customs Code, do not apply to the information exchange between the declarants, their representatives and other interested persons with income and congregation bodies and other state bodies empowered to exercise control. Control clearance procedures. Therefore, I would now like to ask the distinguished reporter to explain exactly what limitations do not apply to this kind of information exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u146	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u147	Thank you, Auntie. These are the editorial regulations that we're taking down the information exchange restrictions through the "one window" -- the first. And these editorials are related to the definition of a new term for "official control." We're putting it in the body of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u148	Thank you. So there is no insistence on Mrs. Ostrov's vote. These are editorial corrections that are considered by the committee. 56 and we had an adjustment. Next up, 57th. Mrs. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, 57 amendments are also made by the author group Krishina, Južanina, Ostrichova, and the National Deputies. The second sentence of part two of article 561 is proposed to be deleted. And I would like to ask our distinguished master to explain the purpose of such changes. And taking this opportunity, I'm also paying attention to honourable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, because a colleague of the Henman has made the amendment to 319 changes -- that's the main article in this law, which has been determined that we're removing all the control organs from the checkpoints. And we leave only customs and border guards, all the rest of the pass points will be removed. And that's where the order of execution and documentary pre-control and further control was set out. Without their participation, without the involvement of these controllers. And this is Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u150	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u151	and Mr. Chicken, apparently without understanding the real meaning of this amendment and the enormous benefit it brings to entrepreneurs, to participants in external economic activities, has knocked it down. So I ask my colleagues very much when we vote on this bill as a whole so that we can consolidate and find votes for the amendment to Article 319 of the Customs Code. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u152	That's 30 edits.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u153	Yeah, that's 30 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u154	It's very important, I confirm, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now, I can hear everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u156	She did. We'll balance the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u157	See, now Mrs. Tetjana, who was actively working on this law from the profile committee to the second reading with her colleagues, has once again returned to the warnings about amendment 30, which was made to confirm the demand of the National Deputy Chicken. His last name was on it. Mr. Chicken wants one minute. Please, after this, the committee representative will summarize this discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, thank you for being able to say the words, my last name was. The point is that I actually got to the point of essentially 30 revisions, but especially for Mrs. Ostrikov, I want to remind her that she has not personally understood that, apart from customs, we need to support our space shuttle industry as well. And that's why I'm asking you in the future, when we come back for the vote of this law, to go back to number 14, beaten by Aunt Ostrike. This is going to be a state position, this is going to be fair. It's not just in Dniper, it's not just the employees of the South and the South Bank, it's what society is waiting for, because we want to be proud that Ukraine is a space state. And we're not going to let any sharp ones get in the way of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u159	Colleagues, I'm on my way! Dear colleagues, I object as presiding in this session against a similar "exchange of courtesy" among honourable colleagues. That's why we have Mrs. Ostrikova, who worked on this bill, we have Mr. Chicken, and I very much ask you, in the framework of parliamentary culture, to exchange your comments on the amendments, not to switch to personalities. It's very important. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u160	Yes! Dear friends, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u161	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u162	Don't quarrel, please! We have a very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u163	"Dear ones, don't quarrel" -- let's mention the classics, please, and move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your name is Burbak, not Dear One, reverend! Your Honor! Yeah, we're moving on. We have a very important bill. So the following warnings were made now that, as soon as we go to the vote for the bill, Mrs. Ostrich's nun asks to return to the 30th amendment, Mr. Chicken asks to return to the 14th amendment. And now we've come up with 58 revisions, it's counted, it's, by the way, an amendment to the honourable Mrs. Ostrickov. But the National MP Victor Pinzenik, Mrs. Tetjana, is asking for his word and wants it confirmed. Please, Mr. Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the law provides for the setting of salaries for one unit of the income and the congregations. How can one department be ripped out of the income and congregation system and legally set up a salary that does not correspond to other units? Revenues and congregations are not made up of one unit that develops software. Today, regional customs officials have much smaller salaries, which should be the only overall solution. You can't set a law for one part, you can't set a law for the other part, you can't set a cabinet for the Ministers of Ukraine. This should be the only decision where the salaries are distributed among themselves. So I'm asking you to put the 58 on confirmation, and my colleagues won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u166	Mrs. Tetjana. Now, a moment, please, to the author of the amendment, then to you, dear colleague. Please, Mrs. Tetjani, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, Amendment 58 really applies to the establishment at the level of the law of the employees of the specialized division of the DFS, who will directly develop software for income and assembly bodies. And we're going to suggest that the salary of the head specialist is 22 living minimums, so that you can understand that 37,000 bracelets are actually non-marketable pay for an etysian. What's the problem with the DFS today? Why do we complain to tax payers that the SEA VAT is constantly hanging, cannot send and register a tax note, does not work, and so on. Today these salaries that are paid by IT workers in business are not compared to the wages that they get. Two and a half people today are ensuring that all IT systems are functioning in the DFS. It's an important amendment, we have to be equal to the law once and for all. This applies, not to customs, but to income and to congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u168	Please, 30 seconds, finish. And please don't interrupt the reporter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, it's very difficult to report an amendment like that when men bass shout at the performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's one minute ostrich, because she's been interrupted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u169	Dear Mr. Pinzenik, I know you're always afraid of blowing up an unwarranted state budget, and I stand for the same values myself. But today, the whole DFS IT system is being provided by someone who can actually write in technical terms and develop software, two and a half people. Let's give the DFS a chance to get into a specialized unit, even if it's up to 10 professionals with marketable competitive salaries, so that taxpayers don't turn to us and you every day that there's a hanging software, there's no electronic office, there's no filing a customs declaration. And when we make a single window, so it doesn't get covered in copper pelvis at all. Very, colleagues, I ask you not to fail this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u170	He insists at the same time. Dear Mr. Pinzenik, there's no rule. She mentioned it by appealing to your speech. We don't have that standard to exchange lines here. The committee requests that this amendment be supported by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik for confirmation. I'm asking you to identify yourself. I'm asking you to identify yourself. The committee's asking you to support her. [[13:15:28]] For-51 51 constituencies, the amendment is dismissed. Let's move on. Here's our next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Mrs. Ostrick's 59th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I would like to place 59 amendments to the honourable national deputy of Chicken Maxim Pavlovich for confirmation. It refers to the temporary exemption from import duty on importation into customs territory of Ukraine and the placing in customs by 1 January 2023 of goods imported by residents, subject to the provisions of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State support for space activities, and is classified under the low code of the OCTSED. Among these codes, UTZED has some kind of fuel material, there are electronic devices, and I have not heard from Mr. Chicken on an economic committee about the need to release such goods from travel at the level of the Customs Code. Why is it that the state, when it is concerned about space and its support, does not ensure that these funds are made available directly from the state budget? I'm out of space, Mr. Chicken, but not in the single window on Customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u172	Please comment now on Amendment 59 by Maxime Chicken, who will justify its need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u173	The point is that these goods are the components of the Zenith rocket, and this is the Sea Launch program that the whole of Ukraine is waiting for, in principle, and not just our country. As far as these codes are concerned, they are not understood. Code 9006, this is a camera that is not produced in Ukraine and is designed to install a long - distance sensing satellite. Fuel materials are specific fuel materials that are not produced in Ukraine, but are manufactured in the United States and specially designed for the processing of liquid rocket engines of the Cylon-4M rocket. In addition, these are components of the fuel to test the second-degree engines of the Zenith rocket. This also applies to materials to create heat protection coverage for the first and second stages of the Zenith rocket. The point is, colleagues, we can't produce this promising and best rocket in the Zenith world on our own in the full cycle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u174	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u175	We have to work in coordination with all international enterprises, organizations. And I would like to stress that this amendment is also another step of our anti-crisis program with you, my fellow dignitaries, to get to a worthy level of our missile space sector. And I thank the factions completely for all the constructive ones that support this. And this is both the BP, and the People's Front of Ukraine, and the Fatherland, and the Radical Party, and the Rebirth, and the Will of the People, and even the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u176	Thank you. Please explain to the committee that supported the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u177	I want to explain. The corresponding standards were in place by the end of the 17th year and need to be continued this year and the following year. Guys, this is the space field. We've made changes to the Tax Code, they don't work without changing the Customs Code. Please support this exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u178	Okay. Colleagues, we have just heard the explanation and the author of the amendment, which focused attention on specific and very narrow - minded objects such as a special chamber or a special fuel that is not produced in Ukraine. Does Mrs. Ostrick insist that after this clarification and the committee, we and the author bet on confirmation? Have you been satisfied with the explanation? You insist. I'll bet you, on Mrs. Ostrick's request, 59 amendments for confirmation. Once again, I would like to point out that the committee supported her, and now we have heard the same request from the reporter. Please make up your mind. [[13:20:06]] For-47 Correction not counted, not counted. Next 71. Oksana Prodan does not insist on this amendment. 60, I'm sorry, I missed. This is the 60th Amendment, now, Mrs. Tetian, I'll be back. I'm sorry, this is the 60th amendment. One minute. 60 Amendments to Krishina, Jujanina, and Ostrick’s. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, please note in the tables the 60th amendment of the authorship of the national deputies Krishina, Jujanina, and Ostrikova. It suggests, first of all, that the rules of this law on "one window" begin to take effect gradually. When the relevant organ is authorised to be connected to this electronic system, the State Fiscal Service website will contain reports of the beginning of the transmission of information, documents by an appropriate authorized State control authority, that this particular permit document or information from a particular register will be transmitted through the "one window" national web portal. But the main part of this amendment is the implementation of the national legislation of Ukraine in part of the provisions of the NCTS Joint Transit Regime Convention. This, colleagues, is what our European partners, like ours, have consistently pointed out in all our meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u180	Thank you. This amendment was taken into account editorially by the committee in principle. And Mrs. Ostrkova didn't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I only ask you not to balance the final law that we are discussing now, and personal stories there do not apply to amendments. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u181	What we've done editorially, we've complemented chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Final and Transitional Positions with the rules on the time-limits for the use of documents in paper-based forms for the transition period. The changes needed for the implementation of the Single Transit Convention in Ukraine are called NCTS. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u182	Colleagues, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u183	Guys, let's not balance this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u184	I urge you to listen to the committee representative, Oleg Krishin, and not balance the bill. The amendment was editorially taken into account, and we heard an explanation from the author and representative of the committee, and in principle they did not insist on voting but simply gave us an explanation. Then let's move on. Next change in us. The following is Amendment 61. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u185	61 amendment is the amendment of the national deputy, George. It is dealt with in an editorial way, and it also provides for the order of implementation of this law. It tells us that on the day of the launch of the transfer, the relevant authorized public authority through this single portal, the "one window" on the customs office to the revenue and assembly authorities already in electronic form is the day of publication on the official website of the administrator of the information portal of the relevant message. And I'd like to take this opportunity to order a national deputy, George, who unfortunately is not in the room right now, about what. Thank you for making a huge contribution and for standing in the origins of this bill, and on the basis of the quality of the amendments that he and his assistants have prepared, we have been able in the working group before the second reading to approve consolidated, balanced and talked to all the controlling government decisions. And for that, thanks to him. In fact, on the basis of his licenses, we took the principal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u186	I see. This amendment was taken into account editorially. You don't insist on voting. The following two amendments, 62 and 63, were rejected. And at Mrs. Ostrick's request, we give both 62 and 63 amendments, and then explain to the committee. Please, 62 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u187	I'm going to talk about 62nd and 63rd right now, and it's also an amendment by my colleague from Self-Help of the National Deputy Georges, which refers to the actual period of validity. In fact, we note that this law takes effect from the day of its publication. And a colleague of Georges suggested that we give a six-month deadline for these government authorities to connect to the "one window" portal. But you know, in the Customs Code there were a few iterations that took five years to get into electronic declaration, and it never did. So we decided not to go into these adjacent control bodies that will never meet the requirements of legislation, and we decided to point out that the law takes effect immediately, and accordingly all changes in their profile laws also take effect immediately, but they have a term of six months to join the "one window." Otherwise, there will simply be no documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u188	Thank you for your clarification. Please be the representative of Oleg Krishin's committee. Now, please give us two amendments to the explanation, 62nd and 63rd, which the committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u189	Well, 62th we're off because we're counting 60. And in 63, we turned it down. We also rejected this amendment because of the deadline for entry into force of this bill. I would also like to thank Mr. Jury very much for his fruitful cooperation in writing this bill. Most of the rights given by George were taken into account or edited and only three were rejected. I thank you for the fruitful cooperation of all of them. All the deputies who took part in the drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u190	Thank you. We can only agree that when the committee works closely with the authors, we receive a revised draft for the second reading that unites the hall. Vote? We still have a lot of amendments, I'd love to, but we have to keep the Rules clear. And so at the request of the self-help deputies who represented the amendments 62 and 63, we will now put them to the vote. And I'm reminding them that the committee rejected them, motivated their position by the fact that these novices were put into amendment 61, which was counted. So 61 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:34]] For-35 35-yes. The correction is being rejected. The next 63 is an amendment. It was also taken into account, according to the committee, and according to the committee's position at 61 amendments, but the authors insist. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:00]] For-36 36-yes. Thus, this amendment is rejected. We're moving on. 69 Amendments, Dirov, Sažko, Dziblik, Lensky, Rybak Colleagues don't insist, they're satisfied with how the bill is being developed for the second reading. 68 revisions. Please turn on Mrs. Ostrovsky's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, amendment 68 of the authorship of national deputies Krishina, Yuzanina, Ostrikova is also one of the most important norms proposed by this bill. And it tells us, well, it's actually a revolutionary change, because it tells us that we're cleaning up the radiological control that the environmentalists have done before, actually doing nothing at the point of entry, and we're handing these powers over to the State Border Service. And only if the appropriate mobile devices are working that one or the other cargo exceeds the radiation background will an authorised representative of the environmental service be called. And I would therefore like now to have Mr. Krishin, a distinguished reporter and representative of the committee, pay attention to this amendment and make a little bit more clear about its contents.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u193	Thank you, Auntie. So this is a very important amendment that we've taken into account. These are changes to the Environmental Protection Act in part of the implementation by officials of the State Environmental Inspectorate at checkpoints through the state border of Ukraine of compliance with the requirements of radiation safety legislation. In the event of identification by officials of the State Border Service of Ukraine of means of transport and cargo exceeding the permissible level of ionizing radiation. It's a very important amendment, which, on the one hand, protects, on the other hand, it's a deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u194	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Ostrkova did not insist on voting on the amendment, but she used her right under the regulations as the author to re-enact the principles of the amendment, honourable colleagues. The next amendment, adopted by the 105 national deputies, was rejected. I'm going to 83. Please. 83. Amendments to the authorship of Ostrichkova and her colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the 83rd Amendment of Krishin, Jujanina and Ostrikov, and immediately to the 84th Amendment of Mr. Ruslan's colleague Demczak, they both apply. It is rejected. These two amendments relate to changes to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the system of monetary regulation and control. You know, you and I voted last week, we voted a bill in plenary week, and it's already a currency law, and we canceled the Cabinet of Ministers decree on monetary regulation and control. But this decree will still be in force for six months, and that's why we're making changes to it, according to which any individual licenses that will be issued by the National Bank of Ukraine during these six months of the decree, as well as a permit document, should be in electronic form, using an electronic digital signature, placed and available in a single window, in this information and telecommunications system, in this information web portal, "The One Window for."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u196	Thank you. I ask the representative of Mr. Krishin's Committee to comment, because 83 amendments are included. But 84, which was rejected and I'm asking you to comment on this so that we can define ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u197	Yes, it's purely technical to make the law work during a transitional period. And 83 percent of the right we're subtracting because we are. All of these standards are included in the previous right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u198	Thank you. Nevertheless, 83 amendments are not rejected, but they are counted. 84th is rejected by the committee. You're the one who discussed it, of course. But at the same time, Mrs. Ostrikova called attention to the rejected 84 amendment and demanded that it be placed on the definition of the hall. You don't? You don't ask. Okay. You were satisfied with the committee’s explanation. 87 amendments were rejected. So, Mrs. Ostrikak, will you take the floor? Please, a representative of the 87th Amendment Committee, which was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u199	We've rejected this because there's 86 revisions. So please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u200	Colleagues, at the same time, we're putting 87 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:24]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. We're at 87. Next, 88th. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, as you can see, we have completed the amendments to the Customs Code, and we have been through them painlessly, except for space activities and their support, and the changes to 319 articles, I think we will return to them. And now you and I are going to amend the laws of profile, including 88 amendments to the Ukrainian Plant Rights Act. And it's about making it possible to import plant varieties more loyally for research samples, or research samples, for research purposes. And so I would now like to ask the honourable Mr. Rapporteur of Mr. Krishin's committee to explain what the procedure of functioning through the single window will be for importing plant varieties for research purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u202	Thank you, Auntie. We're amending the Ukrainian Plant Variety Act in part of the introduction of permits to import research samples of plant varieties into a single window. I'm asking you to support this. We're also going to have the same rights that make changes to the Plant Quarantine Act, 89th, 90th, 91st and 92nd. Please consider all these adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u203	Thank you. In principle, and the committee took them into account and Mrs. Ostrikova did not insist on voting, but she drew the attention of colleagues to the important novels that the committee had set up in the drafting of the law for the second reading. Then came the amendments 97, 99, 101, which were rejected. Will you present them? Please, Mr. Krishin 97, was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u204	97 were rejected, this is an amendment to the Ukrainian Health and Epidemiological Welfare Act. Rejected due to the absence of such a concept in the law as "sanitary and epidemiological control." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u205	Is the explanation clear? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to determine for Amendment 97 that was rejected by the committee, but please identify yourself. [[13:36:32]] For 20 20 votes for. The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 101st. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak. This amendment has also been rejected, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! 101 amendment of the authorship of colleague Oksana Petrovna Sold, she is a rejected committee. I'd just like to draw your attention to her, because Oksana Petrovna actually suggested that we introduce the state health center. Enroll in the law state health-epidemiological supervision in the exercise of state health-epidemiological control of goods after they have been released into the appropriate customs regime. The committee considered this amendment carefully, and we agreed with the State Food Service, the Ministry of Health. We know that a large comprehensive bill is being prepared by the Ministry of Health, which will in fact define European directives, European standards in Ukraine's legislation on the welfare of the population. So we decided not to interfere with the great bill to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u207	Would you please take the position of the 101th Amendment Committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u208	We've also technically counted 98 revisions, so we've ruled out 101. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u209	I see. Dear colleagues! Thus, the committee claims that the 101 amendment was rejected because the novices found in it are contained in 98 amendments. At the same time, we're putting 101 amendments to the vote, please identify yourself. [[13:38:23]] For 20 20-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next. 105 Amendments to George and Ostrick’s. Please, Mrs. Otrich. It's 105, George, Ostrikova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, as I said before, we are now on the move to change other laws. I want to take away all of your questions right now, we're not making a revolution there, either in sanitary and epidemiological supervision, or in market surveillance, or in any other adjacent form of control, until the goods are processed. No, it's just in these laws that we write what these authorities should do if they issue permits, even if they issue this paper document, they're using an electronic digital signature to put the same document in a single system, in a single window on customs. And then the importer or the exporter should not run and prove that he has this document. So the state already owns this information in electronic form. And this is the amendment of George 105 that applies to the nuclear safety authority. I want to say that the next Amendment 106 is taken into account and it's about the comments of the nuclear safety authority that we've officially received and we've called.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u211	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u212	And we've caused these changes that are agreed with the 106th Amendment Nuclear Security Control Authority, namely, that "the revenue and assembly authorities are carrying out the appropriate customs formalities necessary to pass through the customs border of Ukraine, to be released into the appropriate customs regime of radioactive materials on the basis of appropriate permission from the State Nuclear and Radiation Security Regulatory Authority, using the single window mechanism in accordance with the Customs Code." These are the changes in all laws, in all 36 or how many laws there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u213	Thank you for your clarification. Please explain the 105 amendments that the committee rejected from the committee representative, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u214	Thank you. With the amendment of 104, we made changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security and also. So we've just ruled out 105 that it's duplicated in this law and it's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u215	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, so the committee insists that the novices set up in Amendment 105 are included in the 104-106 amendments and that the technical committee has rejected 105 amendments. Well, at the same time, we're putting her to a vote so that the room will be set for 105 amendments. Please. [[13:41:19]] For-19 Correction Rejected By 106, we had an explanation. Mrs. Ostrikova asks her word. Mrs. Ostrikak, what's your next correction? 110th?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u216	110 amendment, honourable colleagues, authorship of national deputies Krishina, Južanina, Ostrikova, she is proposing to us to determine that "the central authority of executive power, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policy in the information sphere, introduces into the single national information web portal "The One Window for International Trade" in the form of an electronic document certified by electronic digital signature, issued permits and information on their cancellation. ".. And so, in the 110 amendment, we determine that the release into free circulation in the customs territory of a publishing product originating in or imported from the territory of the aggressor State for distribution in Ukraine is carried out by the income and assembly authorities on the basis of an appropriate permit obtained from the central executive authority that provides information policy using the single window mechanism. You know, we voted with you a law according to which the production of books, a publisher imported from the territory of the aggressor state, is subject to arbitrary procedures. So let's get these licenses in paper form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u217	Finish up. Please give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u218	So for the purpose that entrepreneurs don't get these licenses in paper form and then take them to customs to import books, for example, originating in the Russian Federation, we simply suggest that this should also be through the use of the single window mechanism: there is a permit document -- please put it in electronic form into the only window that functions in the revenue and assembly bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u219	Thank you for your clarification. Please give the identity committee a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u220	Thank you. We took this into account on the committee. With this right, we are amending the Ukrainian Publishing Act to part of the use by the authority of revenue and collection of permit documents for imports into Ukraine of publishing products obtained through the "one window" for customs formalities. By the spirit of the bill, it's a very nice draft, I'd like you to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u221	Thank you. So Mrs. Ostrkova does not insist on voting here, she explained about this novel. And, fellows, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, today, by moving so closely along the amendments, we have the opportunity to get to know the hall about this important bill, which is being prepared for the second reading, but also for the viewers and the audiences of the Council channel, who are closely following the changes to the Customs Code concerning the introduction of the "one window" and the improvement of customs work, have the opportunity now, when we discuss these amendments, to understand these changes that we are proposing to you as a parliament to be enshrined in the Customs Code. And the next is Amendment 118, please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, amendment 118 of the authorship of the national deputies Krishina, Južanina and Ostrikova also tells us that the Ministry introduces into the Single National Information Web portal "one window" for international commerce in the form of an electronic document certified by electronic digital signature, issued import licences no later than 24 hours from the date of issue of such licences. As I told you, we're moving on to other laws, and in this case we've proposed these amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of a National Manufacturer from Subsidized Imports. You know that Mert issues certain import licences for goods defined in legislation, and therefore, if the product is subject to import or export licensing, we also record in the profile law that such a license should be available electronically in national electronic databases and in the single window on customs that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u223	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Ostrkova here does not insist on voting. She was just taking the floor to explain the correction. Let's move on. 126, which was rejected. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, present us Amendment 126.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, 126th Amendment of People’s Deputy Oksana Petrovna Sold It's the right thing to do, because it offers "sanitary, phytosanitary measures." These words are replaced by the words "State Sanitary Epidemiology Control, Sanitary, Phytosanitary Measures." But from the very beginning, Mr. Krishin, reporting on the changes, Amendment 2, said that we are introducing into the Customs Code the notion of "official control measures", where we reveal what this is: this is phytosanitary control, this is veterinary health control, state control of compliance with legislation on food, feed, animal by-products, animal health and animal welfare, which is carried out in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. And this definition, thanks to our committee, is being unified in all legislative acts. And Oxana Petrovna, when considering the bill for second reading, agreed that the amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u225	Thank you for explaining the amendment that the committee rejected. Please speak to the committee representative about why the committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u226	We rejected these changes because they included 2, 124 and 125. We also rejected, for the same reason we rejected the 130. Yeah, 130. All of it. 130th and 126th. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision to reject these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u227	Colleagues, the committee insists that these amendments can be rejected because they have included other amendments. At the same time, we put 130 amendments to the vote. Please. [[13:48:14]] For-16 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 133 revisions. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, give me your word. This amendment was rejected in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, that's exactly what I've been explaining in considering the previous amendment, so that you and I can understand correctly. The amendment of Oksana Petrovna The sale also applies to sanitary, phytosanitary measures, it proposes to replace state sanitary and epidemiological control, sanitation, phytosanitary measures. But since we've counted Amendments 2, 124 and 132, where we've determined what official controls are, this amendment can be rejected. There is no discussion here with the honourable Mrs. Prodan, there are no differences. We found the correct wording and agreed with all the controlling customs authorities. Thank you and I ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u229	Colleagues, please start voting on these rejected amendments. We have heard the committee’s explanation that these standards apply to terminology and other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u230	They're already accounted for. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u231	They're accounted for in 124, in 132 amendments, but we have to figure out whether to leave these novels again, taking into account the amendments that I'm about to put to the vote. So 133 amendments, please specify. The committee has turned down, but I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:49:52]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next 135 amendments. I'm asking you to make up your mind, too, colleagues. [[13:50:13]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The next 139 amendments. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[13:50:33]] For-13. The correction is being rejected. 140 revisions. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, 140 amendments to the authorship of national deputies Krishina, Južanina, Ostrikova refer to the very important changes to the Ukrainian Act on the One Congregation, which is managed at the crossing points across the state border of Ukraine. And you and I know that the only congregation is set up with regard to means of transport, both domestic and foreign owners, as defined in article 5 of this law, which cross the state border. And that is why I would like to address Mr. Reporter, Mr. Krishin. Are we not introducing, increasing, reducing the size of this congregation? What exactly are these changes to remove any warnings that may be available to colleagues that this applies exclusively to, well, such regulatory procedures, rather than changing the order of accounting and calculation, and the distribution of the congregation itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u233	Please explain Mr. Krishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u234	Thank you for asking. This is a completely editorial bill for the Ukrainian Act on the One Congregation, which is managed at the crossing points across the state border of Ukraine. This amendment is related to the introduction of the term, I emphasize, the term "official control measures." It's purely technical, editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u235	Thank you. So Mrs. Ostrkova does not insist on a vote of 140. But she has now presented her position on this amendment and she does not insist on voting. Thank you for that. Because we're moving on, dear colleagues, in order to be able to adopt this law. We have another 142. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, this is the same, similar amendment made by the People's Deputy Oksana Petrovna For sale regarding the replacement in the law of the words "sanitary, phyto-sanitary measures" by the words "State Sanitary and Epidemiological Control, Sanitary, Physical Sanitary Action." As you and I have already understood, and given the proposal included in 141 amendments, there is no conflict. But you can bet on confirmation. And I propose an amendment to the 142nd People's Deputy Sold to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u237	Thank you. Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u238	The committee rejected this amendment because it counted the number 141, I confirm that. So you can put it on the stand right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u239	The position is clear. So, colleagues, the amendment number 142 that we're currently discussing has been rejected by the committee. And the committee's position is motivated by the fact that these rules are set in other amendments. At the same time, we're putting 142 amendments to the vote so that the session room can be defined. Please make up your mind. [[13:53:59]] For -14 Fourteen for, not counting. Next up, 143rd. National Deputy Ostrkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u240	Thank you. Amendment 143 of the National Deputies of Krishina, Južanina, Ostrikova also applies to the only congregation that is managed at the point of entry for the transportation of domestic and foreign owners. But also to remove any questions that may arise from colleagues or entrepreneurs or owners of transport equipment, I would like to have the honourable rapporteur explain to us right now the more detailed content of this amendment, that this is not about an increase in rates or decreases or any other order of distribution. But if we are with you, colleagues, we are talking about the fact that authorized authorities at border crossings are carrying out phytosanitary and veterinary health and state control over the enforcement of food legislation, which does not exceed the amount of payment for the verification of documents on goods, the means of transport, the container, these, let's say, types of services from public authorities should also be included in the single assembly and additional entrepreneurs do not have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u241	Thank you, Auntie. No, it's an extremely compatible edit. We are in line with the Ukrainian Law on the One Congregation, which is managed at points of entry across the state border of Ukraine, with other laws on the payment of fees for the provision of phytosanitary, veterinary and food products in the form of a review of documents in a single congregation. It's just a reconciliation. I'm asking you to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-04-m0.u242	Thank you. I understand, Mrs. Tetjana, don't you insist on voting? My colleagues, I think it's time to stop our lively discussion. Let's agree on which direction we're going to continue tomorrow. 144th, right? Sold. So tomorrow we're going to start work by law on 144 right. I'm asking the camera to point out where we ended up. And, colleagues, I also want to let you know that tomorrow we're going to start the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] 144th. Let's start the day after we review the draft Law 7010. I'm asking the reporter to be on the job at 10:00 in the morning. And I would also like to report that today, at 15 o'clock in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change." I ask all those who wish to participate in the parliamentary hearings. And so I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. I wish everyone good work on the committees. I know a lot of important bills. We have tomorrow's plenary day and week, and it'll be important for us to concentrate as effectively as possible on this time. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
