ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Ready? Can we make a registration? People's deputies please register. [[10:01:58]] 344 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today, Ukrainian military spies celebrate their professional festival. There, in the east, they risk their lives daily to have peace and tranquillity here in the back. Thank you to all the officers and soldiers who are decently and courageously carrying out their highest duty daily, protecting Ukraine on all fronts. Praise the Ukrainian spies! Praise the Ukrainian soldiers! Glory to Ukraine! Colleagues, in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are taking part in a government meeting led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Hello. And today we invite Minister of Education and Science Lilia Greenevich. And I remind you, then there will be questions from factions and then questions from national MPs. And I'd like to invite Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians who have the opportunity to watch this broadcast! Thank you for allowing me to present today the results of the preparations for the new school year. First of all, it should be noted that the government is fulfilling its commitment to progressively increase the funding of education. If funding amounted to 5.72 percent of GDP in 2016, it already accounted for 6.7 percent of GDP in 2017. So we're gradually moving towards the education bill of 7 percent of GDP for education. Next. For several years now, the creation of opportunities for equal access to preschool education for all children of this government is a priority for government and local self-government. If there were almost 91 seats in Ukraine in 2016, it now stands just over 46,000 places before this school year. As you can see, a reduction of almost 50 percent. But I want to point out that now, given the demographic situation, the number of preschool children is increasing. Even though we have created 8.5 thousand places this year, this has reduced it to only 700 places. And that means that we have to work with local self-government authorities to speed up the pace of creation in line with the Action Plan, which was created in the country at the Prime Minister's initiative. The first - grade students will come to the new Ukrainian school. And this year there are over 448.5 thousand. And that's over 40,000 more than last year, and that's a nice trend, and we're starting to have the number of school-age kids. All children need to experience three important changes in their initial education. First. This is the State Standard, the new content of education. The other one. These are pre-trained teachers. All the teachers in the early classes have been trained. In general, there are over 40.5,000 teachers, 22 000 teachers of primary school and over 18,000 teachers of foreign language in the first grade. Such an increase in pedagogical qualifications is an incredible challenge, and we have managed to achieve it. But there is a third ingredient that is very important. The first - grade students are expected to come to an updated educational environment. To make this environment a reality, the government went to an unprecedented investment and allocated 1 billion dollars to upgrade the education environment of the first grade school. And that was part of the work that would only result in joint efforts with local self-government authorities, because we don't do the purchases ourselves, we give money to local self-government bodies, that is to say the founders of educational institutions. And as practice has shown, they have not been able to do this effectively enough, successfully and differently, in fact, in different territorial communities. For example, a subsidy for printing factories went out seven months ago, a 1st grade subsidy for equipment went out four months ago. On August 27 of this year, that is, before the school year and the first subsidy was used for only 64 percent, and this basic subsidy for only 44 percent. What does that mean? That the kids came to the 1st grade and many schools didn't see new parties, new materials for learning. In fact, money lies in the accounts of local governments. We studied the reasons why they did not. The first reason is government helplessness, when they don't know how to effectively and on time advertise and run them. The second reason is to block tenders because of non-lethal competition in the market, when different firms block a tender, they transfer it to the Antimonopoly Committee, it's delayed, even though these firms are not even meeting and unable to comply with the order. And there's a third reason: that our market that produces and the educational furniture that it produces has proved to be unprepared for such investments. And today, for example, many have made contracts, and these contracts are still being implemented, and the parties will definitely come, but they will come not on September 1st, but later. Of course, children do not learn without a party. So no distortions, please. They're going to be in the classes that they were in, but during these two months of September-Yellow, the situation is going to change all the time. For us to understand, any transformation, and this transformation is real, because such investment in primary school hasn't been in place since independence, we understand that it takes time. And we have to stand up anyway. Every penny is a target, it can't be used for anything else. Next. For example, let me give you some examples. There are areas and communities in all schools that have already set up an updated environment, but above all hear the voice of those parents, those teachers where they have not done so. For example, in the Mikolaiwi district, the NUŠ subsidy was used by 10 percent on August 27th, by 10. And clearly this is a very irresponsible position. All the first - grade children will receive the means of learning. For example, in the first instance, every Ukrainian high school student, whether in a village or in a city or in a mountain school, together with teachers, will be able to use the methods of playing "Lego", which develops an operational memory, which is very helpful in learning mathematics, command work. And these are new tools that they know how to work with trained teachers. In order to overcome this vertical situation, we create a coordinating body, by order of the Prime Minister, that will listen and how local self-government authorities need to be pushed to implement their commitments under the New Ukrainian School, particularly in part of the use of state subsidies. First class, it should be remembered, it is different. The first month of September is adaptation, children are introduced to school, class, and backpacks without heavy equipment and books. They study the safe way to school, and the rules of life continue to be worked out in classrooms, schools, and algorithms. Because children are completely remodeling their life - style. I want to point out that there's going to be a very big temptation for teachers to do everything the old way. Simply put your children on a party basis, a textbook, or a book with a printed base that forces them to buy their parents for money, making it easier for the teacher. You can't do that. Because it's a completely different paradigm for the pedagogy of co-operation and active learning for the children of primary school. We should give these children adequate methods for their development. By the way, the Ministry of Education has been preparing for every week of the first month to make life easier for teachers, detailed materials that parents can see, national MPs, journalists that children study in the 1st grade in the first month that they do. In three clicks on the website you choose "education," "general secondary education", "methodical recommendations and materials for the adaptation period in the 1st grade." What Will the Children Teach? We need to understand, for some people here say that they will not be able to count or write. It's an absolute lie. They'll be able to do what they used to do at the elementary school, but they'll be able to do a lot more. As a result, first - class parents will receive a witness of achievement. There are 51 indicators in the testimony, and among the things we understand and know long ago, for example, how to count within a hundred or how to write a dictator, there will be, like how to solve conflicts, how to work on a team, how to take responsibility. True, these skills are no less important to the success of this child’s life and self - realization. It is important that teachers keep in mind the humane treatment of children. You'll be surprised, but the largest number of parental complaints we receive after primary school that children are not allowed into the classroom. These children are the first to adapt to school, and their basics, such as the possibility of drinking water, are always an open and accessible latrine, a movement that is unique to young children, to realize in reality. This requires the will and understanding of the teachers of children of that age. Our school doesn't end, of course, in the first grade. And now we're developing a network of educational institutions. This year, 160,000, 176 general secondary education institutions, and there are still thousands of affiliates who join a school of resistance, these are small schools that also teach children, but they., in this statistics they do not see them, but they are, they are, they are, they are entering a legal person of a school of resistance. 441,000 educators. We've created 199 support schools with different schools. With their branches. And the ideology is that older children need to learn so that they can gain quality education. This is not possible in a small school where there are no cabinets, and one teacher teaches several subjects. The children of primary school, if possible and at school, must learn as close as possible to the child’s place of residence. And we have now in two years, compared to September 1, 2016, we have created 400 support schools, with 863 buses available. And you know, we've been giving special subsidies to buy buses to support local self-government and they can only add 30 percent of the money. Our policy is to improve the natural and mathematical profile, as well as to study natural science and mathematics in primary and senior schools. This is a serious challenge, now it's been supported in a third year in a row by a special subsidy to the science and mathematics offices. For example, local self - government authorities used this subsidy by September 1st by 53 percent. And here's the biggest problem, because it turns out that the government has politics, we're spending the public budget on it, and this policy is not being implemented in full place. This year, you know, we put emphasis on improving the study of Ukrainian in schools with the languages of the Nazis, 46 million we gave only to the equipment of the offices of the Ukrainian language. It's also used in a very different way. I would like to emphasize to you that the best-used subsidy in the Zakartat region was put up by September 1st by these Ukrainian language offices. An unprecedentedly large amount aimed at the development of inclusive education is one of the government's priorities. Understandably, new schools have been built. Here's a statistic that'll be interesting, we'll send a presentation, I won't waste time, I'll read the numbers, I'll see them. I want to talk about the painful problem and inform the people's deputies, and the main thing is our viewers about the reason for this problem as well. This is the issue of printing textbooks in 2018. It is well known that in the last 10 years of our school year, for the first time in time, we have placed our textbooks to the fullest extent. The textbooks, the two textbooks we printed last year. But this year we have a very big challenge. We're printing three textbooks, that amount, that number of copies are still missing, 18.5 million copies. And it turns out that the Ukrainian polygraph base can't handle these possibilities and these volumes in a short period of time. And that's why we had to lay out this textbook schedule. How did we break it down? For the time being, the fifth grade is one textbook, almost all divorced. So there's no problem with 5th grade. 1st grade, these were new standards and new programs. Of course, the publishers later made textbooks when there are standards, there is a program. The 1st class is the adaptation period in September months. They don't need a textbook right now. They now have a very clear description of what to do every week, and the materials are in the teachers. They will receive textbooks in October when needed. Part of the textbooks have already gone to 1st grade. It's just that we have this story right now: if you've ever printed 1 or 2 textbooks in your country, you have 5, 7, sometimes 8 textbooks, and teachers choose which ones they want to use. And so some get faster, others get later. Next, 10th grade. Most of the textbooks are there, the largest number of copies. And now the situation is, by September 1st, we've put out an electronic library of all the textbooks: both 1st and 5th classes, and 10th classes, as well as many other textbooks, which even, for example, those who have paper textbooks, and who don't want to wear a heavy backpack, can attach all the textbooks to their electronic reading book and use it. But in 10 classes, you can find 10 classes of textbooks right in the electronic library, three clicks on the Ministry's website: education, general secondary education, textbooks. Children in the 10th grade have been teaching information for many years in a row, and they can use electronic versions for September-June, because their textbooks will come in November, for two months. And a few pages to read, if they don’t have access to a computer at home, is part of children in rural areas who don’t have a home, they will have access to a computer at school. Actually, in 10th grade, in high school, I want to tell all my colleagues, we already have textbooks as a tool for learning. Many other materials are used by teachers. Next. Another very difficult reason. We've faced the possibility that we might have some sort of textbook expertise. The Institute for Modernizing the Content of Education, which organizes experts for expertise, these experts, as if scientists were involved, and practical educators, are responding to books. But the Ministry of Education has to sign this copy for printing. And we found fundamentally wrong things in the history books of Ukraine and in civic education. For example, mistaken dates, reading from Soviet history. We cannot allow such textbooks to be printed at public expense. We gave them up for work. Rather, it will come later, but it will be correct. I mean, the textbooks are good, they're normal, they're electronic. And the teachers who chose the error manual and it's now working on it, now they can use the electronic version of the manual with the kids. One more thing. We're reforming the Institute for the Modernization of the Content of Education and the Manual Expertise System so that it's actually adequate and we get a better textbook. Therefore, there is a fourth reason. And here we have to think about it at all. We were given the first precedent this year when the court forced us to print textbooks that we discovered were not allowed to print. For example, an information manual that links Russian sites: Odnoklassniki.ru and so on. Or plagiarism from Russian or Polish textbooks. I already have a precedent that I have to sign a degree in science based on a court decision, because we rejected this dissertation through plagiarism, and the court is forcing us to issue a diploma. Now we're going to print the books on the court's decision. This is a very strange situation. And most fearsome of all, the court is obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u3	Two minutes, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u4	Instead of simply printing this manual, it stops the printing of the ruler from this subject for other normal textbooks. So all these factors, four, come together. But we put up fuses, first graders have materials on September 1st, ten year-olds have electronic versions of textbooks, so the learning process can be completely successful. Next. Now, vocational and technical education, the course for modernization, we're making investments and creating standards. It's all statistics. We increased our investment this year, 100 million dollars into the vocational education base, and we're working on a big project with the European Union that could start in 2020. Next. I'm not going to read the statistics. I just want to say that we need to work with the authorities of local self-government to transfer the property of the trade union. We cannot transfer property to the authorities, sometimes accused of not passing on property because we have not received the documents. It's transmitted differently. For example, three areas have already become part of educational institutions; others have not. We've settled this year the issue of financing the I-II level of accreditation, but it's going to get tough next year. The initial campaign, I reported to you on it, I won't stop for long, but it went by without fail. Now we've put new reception conditions into public debates for the next year according to legislation. And, in conclusion. This year we continued to have transparent access to the Master's degree in the highest rankings where we were.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u5	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u6	We've expanded the postgraduate entrance exams through external testing not only on Right, but also on International Law, and a whole range of foreign language specialities in the Master's degree also through the DPA. Thus, the transparency of the CCW access. The transparency of access to a master’s degree, which has always been complained of, is beginning to grow, and most of all, according to people, are complex, vulnerable to bribery. Dear colleagues, we have much work to do, for reform will take many years, decades. And we need your support and your help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u7	Thank you, Julia Mikhailovna. Thank you for the report. And, colleagues, I remind you, the first block is a question from factions and groups. Therefore, who intends to ask questions from the government, please provide a record. From the Rebirth Party, Barwinenko Vitaly Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u8	The word Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u9	He's handing over the cologne. Kulinich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u10	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Omelyan. Mr. Minister, the budget process is about to start, so I wanted to ask you first: what percentage of the Road Fund is planned to be used to repair roads in 2019? Now this is 50 percent, and this, I think you know very well, is clearly not enough. The second question. Is there going to be a resource on the road of territorial importance in 2012 that is passed on to ODA balances in most areas without any amount of funding. And these are the roads between the district center and the district center. These are the roads for children to support institutions, these are the roads of the sick to the hospital centers. And they're all in terrible shape, and there's no funding this year. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u11	Mr. People's Honourable Deputy, thank you for your question. I wanted to remind you that it was in 2016 that road reform was voted in this room, which approved it, that as of 1 January 2018 a road fund was launched, with 50 per cent of the fuel price being filled; 2019: 75 per cent, 2020: 100 per cent. So I hope that the position will be constant and we will have a steady growing state-guaranteed road financing. In this case, what really is a problem with their funding. But as you know, the approved road development strategy by 2020 is placed in public access. You can find out about the stage of the reconstruction of Ukrainian highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u12	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Question to Prime Minister Groysman. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, the long - term inhabitants of Kiev, 3 million people, do not have hot water. Millions of people have become hostages to Naftogazu politics, when Naftogazu's chief receives 3 million dollars a month, 45 million euros a month, in cash to each Ukrainian! And people sit without hot water! Children wash in cold water, or they warm up on a gas bottle! How long is this going to take?Oh, my God! When will the Chinese return the hot water?Oh, my God! When Ukrainians don't wait for gas payments, on a utility like a bullet, because they don't know what gas prices will be. Where do people get 12,000 dollars to pay the price for gas? The government's decision shortens the rules that grant subsidies. Artificially, 3 million people were cut off from receiving subsidies. That's why we demand that we return the subsidies for last winter, Kobolev's resignation, his head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u14	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u15	Retired Kobolev, head of Naftogazu. You've decided to standardize the payment of the bonus and the salary. Please tell me, did 45 million euros have been returned to the Naftogazu officials who robbed people? Did they stop paying off space wages by going into each Ukrainian’s pocket? And can humans survive the winter peacefully without cosmic, scary, cyanous gas bills? When this Naftogaz vampire makes money in his pocket.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u16	Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u17	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, dear Mr. Head! The issue of hot water is not about the government of Ukraine, but about the issue of the city of Kiev. In turn, after telling Vitaly Volodymyrovich that there is such a problem and he needs help and support from the government, we made all the necessary decisions to help the local authorities restore the hot water supply and support the kyans. It's from the same point of view. As far as subsidies are concerned, as you said. I want to assure you that from the beginning of the new heating season, we will do everything we can to protect through the subsidy mechanism, and attention, every citizen of Ukraine justly, who needs this help. Because even the people who receive the grant themselves say that they have little income and they get a grant, and their neighbor or neighbor who gives up her apartment, who has higher incomes and so on, who have hidden unemployment and so on, more specifically, people work, but illegally, they also receive the same subsidy. That's why we did the inventory right today. Only the first inventory showed that we have 20,000 people in the Kyiv region alone, who are doubling their subsidies. They're in two areas, and they're also cheating on them. This money belongs to the people, and we do not have the right to so close our eyes to these abuses. So now we've looked at this situation and we're going to protect everyone, and it's a key question for me to protect those who need it, no matter how price changes. As far as Naftogazu is concerned. Naftogaz is a company that has no control over the government of Ukraine. According to corporate governance, they have an independent Supervisory Board, and they have the relevant laws that they work for. But I agree that excessive bonuses, excessive wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u19	That's what we have to deal with. And so the first decision of the government that was going to stop these crazy people, I'd say, greedy payments that they were trying to make from -- from Naftogaz. And accordingly, such a decision is approved and the sums are limited. So they didn't get any 45 million. That's the first one. And second of all, you should. Contracts don't work for one year. We have to review all the contracts when they're done in order to set normal wages, not space wages. You want to work for the state, work. Get a decent salary, get a high salary, but a smooth one. Then there will be justice, then people will understand it properly, and there will be no objections. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u20	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u21	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have had the opportunity to examine in detail how our forest sector works for a few months. I understand that the Ministry of Agrarian Politics does not have a leader today, and in this area, we see some chaos. I can honestly say that after examining why I came to this conclusion, because in November the government adopted a forest development strategy that clearly envisions a hidden concession or transfer, or the end result of the destruction of our forests. In Parliament, literally recently, a safe and very progressive law is being amended, which further taxes the foresters, our state enterprises. I think our foresters still pay the "uppour," as it were, a tax. It's the tax that's from every tree that's been cut down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u22	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u23	So I would like you, Vladimir Borisovich, to explain why this is happening. Because I think that this kind of action will lead to the fact that we're completely out of forests. And look at the South, and it's got 3,000 employees out of work, because there's no funding to support this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u24	Thank you for your question, Mr. Sergei. As you know, we have begun a thorough inspection of Ukrainian forestry in general. A corresponding government assignment was given to the State Audit Service, the Audit Service, the State Fiscal Service, and the National Police. They work together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, and they work on auditing. By the end of September, we'll have information on how the tests went. We do everything in order to absolutely openly, publicly and in numbers and personal show where, which woodchopper, how much he worked, how much he did cut out, which they had wood, where, in which countries they exported, who were their counterparties and so on, and so on. That is, we are dealing with this issue today, and we will have to report it publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u25	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Wojcietsky Victoria Mikhailna is passing on to Olena Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u26	Babak, Self Help Union. Vladimir Borisovich, almost 30,000 people who live in multi-family housing units, has prepared “warm loans” applications of 75 million dollars. They came to the banks. The banks refused. They said there was no government funding. Tell me, when are you going to fund demand for Warm Loans and keep your promises last year? And the second. October 15 begins. Dear members of the government, on October 15th, the heating season begins, and you decide to determine the price of gas until October 1st. What would be the price of gas to produce heat in this heating season? Because two weeks, from October 1 to the start of the heating season, is not enough to adjust contracts and determine the start of the heating season. I'll tell you, because of the delay in publication 187, there are no contracts for joint owners to supply hot water. To this day because of the publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u28	Because of the delay in the adoption and publication of the decree, now there are 7 numbers, and people do not have gas supplies in boilers to supply hot water. If only on October 1st the government decides on the new price of gas or changes the formula or even any other changes it makes, there will be no timely start of the heating season due to delays. So please give me the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u29	Thank you. First answer. I have been working for several years, and I hear every year that the heating season is not going to start. Forget it and don't scare people. Ukraine is ready for a hot season and the responsibility of launching a timely one is the responsibility of municipalities. And I don't see any problem with that. As far as price is concerned, you know that we are having a difficult discussion today with international partners, because many years ago some commitments have been made by Ukraine regarding the formation of a single price in Ukraine, and today the cost of gas for industry is 11,000, you know, and for the population we've limited 7 thousand. And we're now working on finding optimal solutions, but what's important to me in these decisions is how to protect every average citizen. And I would ask no one there to let me down, and I've been a city head for eight years, and there's not one hot season. And what I can tell you is that the responsibility for hot water, for heat, for normal electricity, for clean streets, for street lighting is on the city's head and city authority. Period. And today, when there's decentralization financially, all these powers and this responsibility are backed up by tens of billions of dollars, which was never before, before 2014. So the heating season is going to start on time, and there are reserves in the gas shelters there, and I don't see any problems with that. There's no problem with electricity, the whole system is running in a state-of-the-art mode, everything will be perfectly normal, just to get everyone to do their job on the spot. As for "warm loans," you know we're starting this year, this year we're starting the State Energy Efficiency Fund. This is a beautiful global mechanism, a European mechanism of energy efficiency, and this means that this mechanism will work and be accessible to all Ukrainian citizens in order to improve the conditions for receiving municipal services, better heat, normal conditions, and this will be available to every Ukrainian citizen. But now we're looking at how to strengthen the hot loans program, because the 400 million I think we've allocated, we've almost chosen them, as far as I know, and we're going to make a decision as to how we're going to predict the end of the year. But I know exactly that we support "warm loans" to close all projects this year. And as of next year, we're going to have a fund, a state energy efficiency fund. Thank you for your question, and do not be afraid of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u30	Thank you. From the People's Front, Burbak Maxim, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, the main priority of the People's Front faction, is to ensure that national security and defence measures are raised to at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. This was introduced by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, and thank you for the coalition government's continued tradition. I know that you have taken the initiative to increase the defence budget to 200 billion dollars next year, which will also make up 5 percent of the gross domestic product. Please tell us, in 2015-2016, the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk has tripled the salaries of our military personnel. The People's Front is taking the initiative to raise wages for our military personnel, especially those who are now protecting our country in the East. Please tell me, will this be included in the budget next year -- a substantial increase in wages for our defenders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u32	Thank you, Reverend Maxim Yuriovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, yesterday under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine, there was a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, which finally confirmed the distribution of resources between all defence and security departments. The government of Ukraine has offered to increase the defence budget by 23 billion dollars to 201 billion dollars with a special fund. I want to emphasize that this is a colossal resource that is actually going to be allocated next year, I mean a maximum resource over all periods. In fact, we support what was started by the Yatsenuk government -- five percent security -- and now you, your government. Our parliament, according to the President, has adopted the National Security and Defence Act, at least 5 percent. And I said that yesterday on the National Security and Defence Council. This one. These costs are absolutely sufficient under one condition – with the efficient use of these resources to not only ensure the upgrading of arms, but also to increase the wages of Ukrainian soldiers. That's the kind of information we came up with. The final decision will be taken by the National Security and Defence Council, and then we will submit it to Parliament. It's not going to be 5 percent, it's going to be 5.1 percent, so actually we're going to overstate even what's legal. That is why we hope that all measures will be taken by the authorities, the ministries, the strong authorities, to make effective use of this resource, once and for all, to raise wages, especially for those who are at war with the real war protecting our state. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u33	Thank you. The opposition block is Sažko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u34	Good afternoon! Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. I have a question about social policy that's currently under way. Vladimir Borisovich, my question concerns the payment of pensions to internally displaced persons and persons in need of social benefits. Many appeals from the listed categories of citizens testify to the end of pension payments and the default of pensions on the basis of a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 335 of April 25 of this year. That is, there is no current payment or accumulation of pension debts. The changes indicate that the pensioner receives a pension only from the date of the appeal to the Pension Fund, and the debts remaining at the time of the appeal will only be paid on the basis of a separate order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. I have a question for you: Why is there no order at this time when it will be designed and approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u35	Please, who will answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u36	Thank you, thank you for your question. In harmony with your statement, my commission will be to give you a good look at your address and to inform you on the one hand. On the other hand, the pension scheme today provides for the payment of pensions to all Ukrainian citizens who have received pensions without restrictions. The only thing we understand is that it is neither physically nor practically impossible to deliver pensions to occupied areas. So in order to obtain pensions from these citizens, we need to get out of captivity into the free territory of Ukraine and get our pensions. But I would like to point out that, on your request, the Ministry of Social Policy will be tasked with detailing and informing you. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u37	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the national MPs, all the political forces for voting last night for the Inclusive Act 8556. In particular, I would like to thank Marina Anatoliyevna Poroshenko, who joined in this work, actually prepared these documents. And yesterday we demonstrated to the whole of Ukraine that we can fight for people with special educational needs. Now the question is, Vladimir Borisovich. Excuse me, Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you. It's not a secret that there are problems in financing technology and colleges in higher education. We know that the government is doing a lot to finance them. But here's the question, Vladimir Borisovich: we know Minfin's intentions that part of the technology and colleges that are in the university structure, and we put this philosophy in the budget correction to create powerful educational holdings, this philosophy to make the weak educational infrastructure powerful. He wants to get out of state funding and he's setting this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u40	I have a big request, Vladimir Borisovich, don't do this, because we can't artificially divide universities into nationals, because it's a viable status, and today it doesn't correspond to the real state of affairs, and that means that we're going to suffer a lot of technologies and colleges that are in the structure of the university. What is more, it breaks down the philosophy of creating educational holdings in Ukraine, which can also provide permanent development.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u41	Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you for asking. We discussed this with you yesterday, by the way. I suggest you do it this way. In fact, education also needs systematic solutions, including the efficiency of using financial resources. So, of course, we need to change the education system, especially in terms of vocational and technical education. I would ask you, together with the Ministry of Education, next week with the Ministry of Finance, to hold a working meeting where you can discuss all the nuances of how the system works. And I think we're going to make a joint decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u42	Thank you. So now the questions are from the nationals. Yeah, yeah. Also, I'm sorry, since Shahov's "will of the people" and then the national MPs. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u43	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Not by word of mouth, but in fact, Vladimir Borisovich, exactly two months of volunteers from "Our Land" worked all over the country, collected more than a million signatures against the price of gas. I've registered the relevant Decree 9027, which prohibits practically, and we require you to extend for three years the term of your Cabinet of Ministers 187 -- to fully impose a moratorium on the price of gas. Because if you raise the price of gas, today all the increases in pensions and wages will go completely to the trash. Foods, pills, pills, and so on, energy products will be raised. And secondly, on Friday the 13th, this number is completely cursed. Our colleagues voted, on the last parliamentary day, for the wages of miners, 1.5 billion dollars were to be paid. Please tell me, why didn't they pay the miners? And still miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u44	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u45	In 27 years, miners had never received their wages before the miners ’ Day. No year in 27 years was enough to prevent children from going to school in new boots or with new notebooks. Please tell me, why did this happen? And "Our Land" requires immediate separation from office until it is resolved, Minister Nasalik, energy and fuel and coal. And appropriate punishment for those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u46	Thank you. You said not by word, but by deed. I thought the representative of our Ukraine was speaking. You know, colleagues, I'm always used to speaking quite frankly. I think you all know that I can look you in the eye and say what I think and say it absolutely openly and objectively. And the same thing, I look people in the eye, because it's the right thing to do. Well, look, you've collected 20,000 signatures. A million. Yeah, I want to tell you, I think you've got a little bit on your plate. Because of 45 million Ukrainians, no one supports the decision to change the price of gas, and I am among the 45 million. For what, though, do we need to make commitments to international financial organizations? For one purpose. From 2005 to 2013, you and I have accumulated $50 billion of external debt. You can have the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the 15th, the 14th. And you'll see how, by what decisions, who took that money and where it went, I still can't figure it out. Now every year we spend, we all Ukrainians, $130 billion in debt service dollars is $5 billion. They need to be taken and made somewhere. But instead of taking money, investing in the economy, getting economic growth, from economic growth, giving people normal wages, pensions, and so on, and the wages remained at a minimum of 1,000 dollars, and led to a critical situation. In the 14th year, when 20 percent of the country's economy fell.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u48	We were presented with bills, either to pay them, or to go to default. We said we couldn't afford a default. Because what is a defolt? You and I have already experienced a sharp rise in the dollar. A sharp rise in prices, a loss of wages and so on, and so on, and so forth, and a loss of 20 percent of the economy. So the Yatsenuk government took an unprecedented step — restructuring, and more than $5 billion was written off, debt was written off. These debts continue to be restructured over the years. Here comes the years to pay. And the 18th, the 19th, the 20th, the 21st, the 22nd, the 23rd, I'm talking to those who are planning to take part in the government at this time, we have to give that money back. But there are conditions for this money: that there should be a single price for gas in Ukraine; that an Anti-Corruption Court should be created; that a number of tasks must be carried out that will make Ukraine more powerful, in their view. And here we go in this paradigm. I wasn't the first to sign these commitments to raise these prices, they were still signed for the first time in 2009, and I'm going to show you a memorandum. But when they constantly deceive Western partners, they start looking at us, not at us, but at us. And that's why it's a necessary step to get access to financing in the external markets for the servicing and repayment of debts that I haven't taken or you haven't taken, well, at least most of you. And you say you don't have to pick up. I support that. Take responsibility now, tell us how not to raise, without doing this task, to give money to international institutions that we did not take. Show me this script and I'll put my signature under it. But there's no such scenario. It's a forced step. And I realize that my friends and friends are going to stick their fingers at me and show me that it's like a Graceman. But it wasn't here. I think it's a responsibility to the state and to tomorrow. And my job is to avoid default, to ensure stability, to reduce inflation, and eventually to restore lending to the national economy. This can be done if we are not hindered by external debt. The economy is beginning to grow. This means that in the 19th year, no matter what the elections, no matter what else we have, we have a chance to further increase the economy, produce more production. As a result, a working person will receive more pay and a pensioner will receive a just pension. Last night we were discussing safety issues. And the President said quite correctly that the guarantee of our independence is the Ukrainian army. But I added that the guarantee of our independence is not only the Ukrainian army, but also the strong national economy, which will enable us to bring justice back to Ukrainian life, to Ukrainian citizens. And as for today's tariffs. The tariffs, remember, and know that tariffs are not set by the central government. And I want to tell you that the components of tariffs and piema weight costs are also the responsibility of local authorities. Whoever modernizes and makes new technologies, there's less cost. As a result, differences in tariffs vary from one country to another. So our job is to provide social protection to those who have low incomes and who need such protection. And we need to focus with you: (a) protect those who need protection inside the country; service external debt; prevent the default from being stable prices, stable wages and stable national currency; and ensure further economic growth. Here are three elements of our success in this and the following year. And please, your friends, your support. Let us tell people the truth in their eyes and then they will understand us because we speak honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a question from the National Deputies. Anyone who intends to ask questions, please record. 20 minutes for questions from the national MPs. Vladislav Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u50	Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon. I have a question for you. Please tell me, do you know that there is a Ukrainian Book Institute in Ukraine? If you know, did you know that Minfin is now blocking the work of this institution? What's more, he's not transferring the money that was needed for the Ukrainian Book project to form libraries. And now a very interesting story is happening. This institution's work is blocked at all, there's no funding. Ukrainianization, for which everyone here, but for some reason no one works in this direction. I have a question. Why is Minfin blocking the money needed to form library funds? That's the first one. Secondly, why is it impossible to cooperate with the new Institute of the Ukrainian Book with Minfin? And what is your position on this? For it is desirable that there be a Ukrainianization on matters rather than on words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Borislav, for asking. I want to tell you that the government of Ukraine is not just supporting, but is very supportive of the Ukrainian Bookstore, and we think that this is a very important and priority issue. Not only do we know about the Institute of Books, but we have established it. And accordingly, all the necessary available funding will be provided, which is planned for it to function in a qualitative manner. So there can be no other questions. As for Minfin, my friends. I think the position of Minfin is tens of times more professional and more qualitative than it was before. So I'm deeply convinced that when I meet the factions, with the committee deputies, there's a very professional discussion of the duty of Minister Oksana Markarov and all of Minfin's team, which will be completely strengthened by the position of the Ukrainian government. So all of the financing issues, they're absolutely not out of the interest of the Ukrainian government. Thank you. And Eugene the Destroyer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u52	If you don't mind, I'll add very briefly. Thank you for your concern, for your help on the review board, and this is natural. I would like to report that a fund allocation has already been signed to support the Frankfurt Fair forum, literally yesterday. And yesterday we also discussed how to work on a document and agree to buy books in the shortest possible time. So I think it's going to be okay. And thank you for helping.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u53	Thank you. The word for the question Krivenko conveys to Djublik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u54	Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Excuse me. Vladimir Borisovich! Let me tell you. They began building the northern bypass around Zitomir by company Sinohydro, and this was a joy. But all of this uses stolen sand on the base of the canvas. In the territory of the Highly United Territorial Community, there is a kidnapping, a banal theft of soil, for the purpose of further planting. One second. No legal career is foreseen for the entire length of this road. So this is the first option where they're going to steal this sand, and then again it's all going to happen. Vladimir Borisovich, I would ask you to take control of this problem, and yet you will not use it to build the largest infrastructure project for international money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I'll give the minister of infrastructure an assignment, he'll take care of it and inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u56	Please follow up on the question of the National Fisherman. Passes the word to Moses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! The question that has arisen in millions of Ukrainian peasants when I, our leader Oleg Lazko, have been seeing people for the last three weeks. Who are the foreign partners that require the closure of the Ukrainian villages? It's a mass phenomenon in my native Poltavishte, in Chernigovishte. Give me an answer. And the second question is about a road safety programme. There is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, Give me an answer. Do we know anything about the facts, perhaps the purposeless use of funds? Is there money in the road fund for the program? And does the program work as a whole? Because in three months, 36,000 RVs, 9,000 injured, 900 people were killed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u58	Vladimir Omelyan wants to answer by mail. I want to say one thing about mail. Each community needs to have a service center. And that's an obvious fact. Somewhere in the united communities, these may be the centers for the provision of administrative services. This could be for the community where there are working staff. But the fact that people have to get everything they need, there, on condition, both the pension and the correspondence, and so on, is absolutely necessary, and this is fundamentally important. As far as road safety is concerned. Look, there's a program, we recently set up a national security coordination board. We've approved a program, a strategy. We have accordingly adopted changes to legislation and have foreseen funds to ensure this security. Norms, new design standards, including where circles, where pedestrian crossings, where narrowing lanes, and so on, have only taken effect since September 1st. So now we're turning the angle of these changes. The cost is on the accounts, but it needs designing, it needs to be properly managed by the project documentation and all the conclusions. So we're going to run into this kind of mass since the spring of next year. But this year, a series of things will be done about security, and this is our very clear strategy. You know, any program, any program, any program, and when we start running it, it gives signs, there's something someone hasn't done or institutional weakness, I'd say, and I'd have to press it, squeeze it, squeeze it, and so on. We even started the 1-4th class of "New Ukrainian School" about what she said, the reverend Lilia Mikhailnna. A billion dollars were allocated, for new parties, for didactic material, for other study aids, and so on. What do you think? Usage is 51 percent. Some areas have been made, some have not. I'm asking those colleagues, please tell me, who gave you the right to be so irresponsible about these processes, when a child goes to school, she needs to give everything she needs from day one, and we started to finance it. You know, round eyes. But we have to make everyone work. And I am deeply convinced. We started "Available Drugs." The first three months, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u60	For the first three months, they said there was no way, there was nowhere to buy and so on. There are problems today, but 25.8 million Ukrainians have already received free recipes. And every year, this program will be more perfect, perfect, until we reach out to anyone who needs free medicine. This will be the case with and with the road safety program. On every road, each project will give priority to safety. If you can, for another minute there's literally an omelian in the mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u61	Please, Mr. Emilia, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u62	Thank you. I just want to remind you that over the years we've been pretending to pay the postmen for the last mile, and they've been doing their job without technology, without cars, without anything. So now the policy of Crucifixion is actually designed to provide the last mile postmen with a decent, full pay. Not 0.2 bets, not 0.1 bets, but full-time job, cars so they can work in decent conditions. Actually, for this purpose, we are working with the government now with additional possible funding. And I think that soon the postmen will see some quality changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u63	Please, the following question is John Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u64	Ivan Cporish 15th district, Winnitzkin. Vladimir Borisovich, I'm talking to you, I'm going to say that in the State Budget, there's actually funding for agriculture, for farmers, and so on, these 4 billion, and thank God that half is coming back, it's for building farms, and for capital repairing farms, and so on. And it's not just that, and it's to keep the cattle alive. But I am. 50 percent is already back, and farmers are very grateful. But I have a question about whether there's a possibility by the end of the year and there's no threat that even from the other 50 percent, the farmers did get it. If they do, they will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u65	Thank you, Sir John. I want to say that we really, again, this is once again the first time that we started a targeted program of support for Ukrainian farming. What is my goal? [[B in m in s a l in]] May I? Thank you very much. What is my goal? I would like us to really create mechanisms to support Ukrainian farming and to increase the number of farmers throughout the country. Not big latifunds, not big holdings, but really the work that's environmentally clean, which is competitive, which will fill the internal market and so on. And because of such programs, not only do we have to give what is planned for this year, but in the following year these programs have to work. And people have to know for sure and plan for a few years ahead of time, for 3-5 years, their investments in gardens and cattle and farms and dairy complexes, and including, and for landing material, and so on. It all matters to the national economy. I'd like us to have tens to tens of thousands of farms, and that's absolutely possible. And take farming -- it's a job in places, take decentralization, where we transfer tens of billions of dollars to local budgets, it's all going to be perfect conditions for people in the village to find work to organize their leisure, to increase productivity, to apply new technologies, and to give a good Ukrainian product not only for the internal market, but also for the external market. This is our goal, and we're going to do it. Thank you for your question and thank you for your work in the agrarian complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u66	Thank you. The Vineyard gives the floor to Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, today is a critical situation with the transport of raw materials and finished production with a mining and metallurgical complex, Ukrainian agrarians. Only in the industry of the GMC, which accounts for 45 percent of the shipments, this area alone last month lost 68 million dollars of foreign exchange, imagine almost 2 billion dollars. It's a direct negative in the balance of payments, which means a blow on the bracelet and it's a direct negative in the economy of Ukraine. We suggest that we immediately solve this problem at the highest level, secure a moving warehouse, provide locomotives. If there are no proper locomotives in the Crucifixion Center today, let's not do a send-off that will eventually be American, it's a long-term contract. So we need to rent them immediately in Kazakhstan, Belarus, in the Baltic countries, to close this seasonal deficit. Because what's happening today is a blow to the international image of Ukraine and a blow to the course of the bracelet. Let's make this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u68	Thank you. I think you know that here and in the Azov Sea we have serious problems with the export of Ukrainian goods. And this savagery on the part of Russia, the Russian Federation, must be properly evaluated by all international institutions. As for "Ukrainian Railway", yes, "Ukrainian Railway" has been in quite a difficult situation for more than a year. But once again, as you go back to the moving warehouse, you know that part of the moving compound stayed in the occupied area. You know, the moving composition of the Ukrainian Railway is morally obsolete. They were building their own property, planes, I don't know what that means, they ran the railroad, and no one was actually doing it. So this year, I think that more than 10,000 new cars will be built -- this is unprecedented. We've adjusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u69	Of Ukrainian steel. No, no, no, of Ukrainian steel. Of Ukrainian steel. I'm just for Ukrainian steel, it's solid and strong and it's quality. Ten thousand wagons will be built. But 10,000 cars are going to be built not only by the Ukrainian Railway, but you know that we've adopted such a deregulation norm, I would never have thought, listen, I never thought that the schemers would think of that. So the government cars cost, let's say, the bracelet, and the private cars cost 10. And this delta has been made by billions, I'm sure, for years. When we figured it out, we figured it out, we destroyed it, and now all the cars -- both state and non-state -- cost one price, and there's no one to abuse the grounds. But the second position, it's moving, it's a fleet. And we really need, we've made a contract with General Electric, we've achieved localization of more than 40 percent. We Ukrainian manufacturers are entering a consortium in the service of this technique, this is a very cool story for our industry and our cooperation. So this fall we're starting to get the first ones. And here's another question, this is deregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u70	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u71	This is a similar deregulation that we did on the wagons to do on the fleet. That is, to enable you to start a private drive for transport. Here's the question of "no harm." And we're working on this right now, whether it's possible to leave the infrastructure component on the tariff so that the railway can handle the tracks, the energy and the new building of things, and the fleet was moving, as it were, at its overheads. That's our job right now. But they've been robbing the Crucifixion Road for nothing, so listen to me. The air express wanted to build 10 billion dollars — 10 billion dollars from Kiev to Borispol. So you'll see, I promised we'd give up December 1 this year, we'll drive to the Ukrainian Borispol. Do you know how much it'll cost? 570 million. Nine and a half billion people wanted to stick and keep it. Well, is it a government approach to building that? But we'd never have enough railways to do that. So let's do it, let's do it honestly. The problem is, we can't solve it in one day, but I'm underlining.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u72	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u73	30 seconds. In the medium term, it's 3-5 years, and in the long term, under 10 years, we can get rid of it on different issues. One: the economy, it has to be stable growth. People are going to get more wages, and they're going to be able to buy more because there's going to be minimal inflation. In 10 years, we can pay off all debts externally and stay with these resources to invest in the national economy and continue to grow. We have every chance. We have one enemy -- it's political cynicism, it's total populism of some who won't let us work and won't let Ukraine get away, they've tried to control it many times.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u74	Thank you. Matthewnko gives the word for the question to Jołobecki. Please, Jolobecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u75	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I know that you always care about the state of the road throughout the country. And I want to tell you that the state of the road for today in the Mikolai district is very terrible. Today we have no roads, but we have directions. This is the direction for Kopivnicki, this is the direction for Dnipro. And thank you for spending extra money on the Mikolai district in your time. But in my opinion, five numbers might not have been made, and the Mikolai region was left with 98 million dollars. I don't want to talk about who's guilty today. I'm asking one of you. I know that this decision was made with further work. Please have Vice Prime Minister Kistion and I work out this decision together with the Krauttodor to calm down all of the people in the Mikolai region. At this time, there's an extraordinary session in the Mikolai district with one question: to ask you to return to the Mikolai region, this 98 million. Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u77	To calm down all the Santa Clauses, to calm down that we're going to make this balanced decision, because tomorrow, I want you to welcome all the Santa Clauses tomorrow with the birthday of the city of Mikolayeva, and to keep them calm, please, with a balanced answer from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u78	Dear and dear, our Santa Clauses, I don't know, the lions, the denizens, the vineyards, the roosters, the locusts, the daughters, the deciduous, well, me. Bags, niggers, respectable Ukrainians! So listen very carefully. Our government has started a larger road construction program. If that is not the case, deny it. No one would deny it because it is. Second position. We've allocated unprecedented funding to build roads. I said here in May 16th of this rostrum that this would be one of our infrastructure priorities. I hold my word and do it. Second position. So we started to form a strategy for the development of Ukrainian roads. But it is vital that this strategy is properly implemented on the ground. I want to tell you in the Mikolai district, as you say. So we've allocated 560 million dollars this year, that's 8 percent of the total road budget per country. In particular, it is planned to make a capital repair of the N-14 road, which is 300 million dollars, Alexandrovka-Kropivnicki-Mikolai. The current average repair of N-11 Dnipro-Mikolai cars is 200 million. And the T-1507 Mikolayev-Parutine-Ochak's Black Sea Recreation Base is 50 million. And so on. The status of construction work in the Mikolaiiv region as of 01.09.2018 is very unsatisfactory. The amount of work is only 95 million dollars or 17 percent of the annual plan. Overall, 68 percent of implementation in all areas. In particular, in Zaporozhye region 92, in Zakarpatski region 96, in Kirovgradska region 92, in Ternopilska region 96, in Hmelnitsky district 93. The capital repair of the N-14 car to this day has not started. From the current average repair of the Dnipro-Mikolai road, the Dnipro-Mikolai N-11 is 46 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u79	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u80	But we have to finish, not just start. That's why I'm the Mini-Infrastructure. What happened to Mikolayev-Dnipro? I'll tell you. 300 million for use from Santa Claus to Dniper. What difference does it make for motorists on this road to travel along the Mikolai district or in the Dnipropetrovsk region? None. They have to go on one road. That is why a decision was made in connection with the failure of the Mikolai region to switch to the same road in the Dnipropetrov region. That's the whole story. 100 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u81	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u82	When I was approached by a fellow national MP, Oleg Valeriyovich, David Makarian, then you raised the question. I immediately said that just with the work done, now let's think about it, let's look at it in order to completely do the right thing. But if the funds are not implemented, they should be put in the road, and people will not wait another year, because someone has failed, and the district administration, Mikolaiivsky, needs to do better in the business. Thank you for asking. And the Mikolai and all the Ukrainians, I'm not just going to support them on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Question time's up, colleagues. I'll do the closing, not the obvious. Vladya, I'm going to add Lušnjak, because you've answered the final question. And that's where we end up. Please. Keith's handing over Luchniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u84	Good afternoon, Mikola Lušnjak 166 district, Ternopilščina. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, this year, at the beginning of the year, a number of railway stations were shut down throughout Ukraine. The Crucifixion Pat has only calculated its losses. But the fact that those stations were the main budget makers of small cities, districts, villages, in particular, I'm going to talk about the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the stations that were closed -- 30 percent of the budget makers of the Snitinski region. In the Chernigiv region, a new one - million - to - one - ton elevator was built, which was an annotated station. I want to take into account that, given the economic indicators, not just the crossroads, but the local budgets. Because the station is able to unload, according to Crossroads, the indicators are too low, and the local budgets are the ones that get the most out of those stations. And secondly, this year you were in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u85	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u86	Where the business thanked you for restoring not only the stations today, but also the routes. The operations director of PAT "Urzalznice" Jeromin Vjacheslav Volodymyrovic said that it was not appropriate for the Buchac station, which served two districts, to provide routes. And so, personally, in manual mode, he stopped all shipments at the station. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you, dear fellows. I think you're asking a fair question, Mr. Mikolo. It will now be the responsibility of the minister of infrastructure to deal with this issue in a substantive way. And by the station you're talking about, I know the problem. You're absolutely right. And I'm warning the management of the Railroads about the inadmissibility of such actions. And I think they will listen, and we will restore justice. Do you have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u88	All right, thank you very much, dear colleagues! Thank you for asking. And I want to welcome you with the first plenary week, which I think was quite effective. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u89	Thank you. I want to mention, by the way, the honourable government officials and honourable fellow MPs, we made 29 positive decisions this week, 23 laws in general, 23 laws in general. I remember that statistics are one of the most successful weeks. And I'm glad that the work of the Ukrainian Parliament began very actively and effectively. And I hope you'll prepare the most drafts in a week's time on the committees that are on the agenda. That next week would be no less effective. Now, I want to thank the government for participating in Parliament's work, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And now we're moving on to the question-and-questions announcement. And I'd like to invite Irina Heratchenko to make an announcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in the first week of Parliament's work we have 268 requests registered, we'll all announce them by 12 o'clock. And then we will continue our work under the Rules. Thus, requests were received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Yuri Babia and Vladimir Schwariluk to the head of Johno-Frankow City for the name of Leuk Lukyanenko. Vitalia Kuril to the Director General of the Ucroborinprom State Concert, Head of the Supervisory Board of the Ucrobanprom State Company for the Protection of Shareholder Rights of VAT Quant during the preparation and holding of shareholders' meetings on August 10, 18th, under the leadership of the Ucroboranprom State Company. Yurya Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Health to assist in the free operation of a citizen named Mikoli Basuk. Yurya Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Health, Ravenna District State Administration, to assist in the treatment of a minor child by a citizen named Anna Grušovec. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister for the provision of the Romanian district sector of the Ukrainian State Service Department with extraordinary situations in the Žitomir district by fire car. Viktor Razwadowski to the Zitomir City Head on taking action to repair the asphaltic coating of the building areas near housing houses 26, 28, 36 on Kroshenska Street in the city of Zitomir. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Oblast Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, Head of the Lviv District Council for the distribution of budget funds for the repair of roads between the Lviv areas, taking into account the coming of funds from the State Road Fund, the Lviv Regional Council Road Fund and the cost of converting customs payments into the Lviv Region budget. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Oblast Administration, Head of the UK Security Administration in the Lviv region, for the non-restriction of a permanent bus connection with the villages of Kulików, Korčivka, Volica-Barlova, Nestanichi, Stremilce, Envy, Sturovich and Rozalov in the Radehiv region. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror of Ukraine on attacks against public activists in Ukraine. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Pension Fund, Acting Minister of Finance for the need to recalculate pension payments assigned to persons with disabilities whose illness is related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Leveln government to increase funding for the “Affordable medicines” programme to provide for the needs of the affected population of the Danube region, as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Vladislav Buharev, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, Prime Minister on the need to allocate additional funds from the State budget for the 18th year for the purchase of medicines for diabetics and chronic renal insufficiency. Sergija Vlasenka to head the government of the public shareholder association of Naftogaz Ukraine National Shareholders' Company, a repeat parliamentary request for payments by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to themselves and the co-workers of the company of the premium of more than a billion dollars, while increasing the price of gas for consumers. Sergey Vlasenka to the President of the Civil Society Organisation, Ukraine Anti-Corruption Association. The Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Association to hide information about the financing of the so-called social promotion of the activities of Henprocuror of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka. Igora Shurma to Prime Minister for the Inadmissibility of Stopping the Activities of the State Enterprise "Specialized Medical Part No. 18 MOZ Ukraine". Igor Shurma to the head of the National Police, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, for drawing on the responsibility of the Ministry of Health’s management as a result of the audit of the National Court of Auditors of the efficiency of the use of funds allocated to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad, the examination and detection of facts that contain signs of criminal offences. Olesia Long to the National Bank of Ukraine for the commission to receive payments from the population for utilities, particularly gas. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on increasing the amount of education subsidies from the State budget to local budgets. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to organize timely purchases of medical supplies. Tetjana Crnoval to the Prime Minister on the abuse of officials of Minernergogil by his duties and non-compliance with the requirements of Cabinet Regulation of 21 February 2017 No. 95 on ensuring the effective use of gas distribution systems or their components. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, from an extraordinary situation to improve the material and technical security of the fire rescue units of the Lviv region's DSNS. Jaroslava Dubnević to head the State Water Agency for the implementation of the 19th Environmental Protection Plan "Protection of the village of Ralivka (Galicka Street), the village of Hatka from the flooding of the river Dniester in the Sambir district of Lviv Region". Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Lviv Observatories for the Coastal Reinforcement of the Russels of the Mountains and for the Construction of Anti-Summer Buildings in the Old Sambrian Region of Lviv Region. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the National Commission, is in charge of national regulation in the areas of energy and utilities for the provision of commercial natural gas nodes by means of remote data transmission. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the payment of the pensioner's funeral aid. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the payment of monetary compensation for the cost of food. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the promotion of the activities of the national enterprises of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the introduction of a state programme to provide full care for patients with sensory deafness. Vadim Sidorczuk to the Prime Minister for the provision of general education and other secondary education facilities for the Rhine, Žitomirski and Hmělník regions by means of means of passenger transport for the replacement of vehicles removed in 14 years for the purpose of carrying out military transport duties. Ljubomir Zubak to the Prime Minister to verify the legality of the company's activities in Borislav Lviv district. Jacob Besbach to the Human Rights Council, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Attorney General's Office for the use by the relevant authorities of the State of active measures for the restoration of the constitutional rights and freedoms of Andrija Stelmaszczuk. Constantine Jarinic to the Director-General of the Dnipro-Kirovograd Regional Municipal Production Company for the provision of quality drinking water to the population of Kropivnitsky. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council on the need to amend the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain Ukrainian laws on the promotion of the creation and operation of family farms in part of the taxation of forest land. Igor Guza to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the number of Ukrainian citizens held in the prisons of the Republic of Poland in accordance with the requests made by the Russian Federation to Interpol. Vladimir Husak to the Prosecutor of the Odessa Region, head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Odessa region, head of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in the Odessa region, on the status of criminal investigation. People’s Deputies (Sotnik, Záscík, etc.) Total 6) to the Attorney General about access to the incoming and outgoing news sites of journalist Natalia Sedlecka. Alexander Nechayev to Henprocuror, head of the Suma District State Administration, for the verification of the purchase of Scottish TEC utility property and the cessation of the supply of electricity to enterprises in the area. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing citizens of Ukraine to obtain full, reliable information as a result of the exclusion of analogue television. Jury Odarchenka to the Prime Minister for the violation of the requirements of the current legislation and for the unlawful conduct of a limited liability association "Hersonregiongaz" in part of the illegal dowry to consumers who used unaccounted gas between May 2015 and January 2016, including regulations of Cabinet of Ministers No.619 of June 8, 1996. Victor Krivenk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Head of the National Bank, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, President of the Ukrainian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, for providing ICC Ukraine with conclusions on the appropriateness of the guarantee in public procurement procedures. Vladimir Husak to the executive duty of the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways to verify claims for the negative profitability of railway transports of iron ore for export. Andrija Pomazanova to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures aimed at repairs within the road T-18-30 Level-Tajkuri-Marriage in the area of Taikuri-Novosilica; Zdolbonov-Glinsk-Steblivka; O180804 Zalibuka-Pieve-Mozoch-Kopitkow and O18004/M-06/-Glinsk-Zdubitsa-Novosilica. Hanni Hopko to the head of the Central Electoral Commission for the immediate annulment of Decree No.122 of 9 August 2018, which artificially blocked the reform of decentralization in Ukraine, and the appointment and holding of elections in united territorial communities. Maxim Burbak to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to increase the financing of the medical subsidy from the State Budget of Ukraine for the Sokirian OTG of the Cherniewsky region. Maxim Burbak to the Director of the private shareholders' association Ukrhidroenergo for immediate transfer to the property of residents of the hostel in Novodnystrovsk Černovetskie region. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order No. 450 is brought to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "To amend article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families" in part of the provision of compensation to military personnel for renting (or rent) accommodations. Paul Rizanenka and Yuri Solovia to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 22 August 2018 No. 652 "Some questions about the conduct of State certification of higher education institutions in part of their conduct of scientific (scientific and technical) activities". Anna Romanov to the minister of foreign affairs to simplify the procedure for entry into Ukraine for foreign citizens Anna Romanov to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, on the measures that have been taken by unscrupulous tour operators. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Affairs on the need to purchase specially equipped cars for the transport of persons with limited capabilities. Oleg Kulinić is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the allocation of a car for the Parental APSM. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inefficiency of a pretrial investigation into criminal conduct committed by a Ukrainian citizen named Dmitr Rjawski. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister on the need to adopt the National Programme for Immunization and Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases, to prevent the elimination of IZO district laboratory centres and to ensure the proper epidemiological welfare of citizens. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the provision of life-saving medicines for patients with rare diseases, and in addition to Gallia. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the implementation of the State Programme "Available Housing". Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for blocking the transfer of agricultural land to the municipal property of the Prilysnian United Territorial Society. Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister on the status of the legislative base and compliance with the rules of legislation in the processing of agricultural agreements with pesticides. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the issue of preventing the liquidation of the Territorial Service Centre 3247 of the Regional Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the issue of reducing the transit flow of cars and establishing a ban on the movement of freight through the village of Malutyanka Kyivo-Swiatoshin region of Kiev. Costina Jarinić to the head of the Kirovograd District Council, the head of the Kirovograd Observatories, the Kropivnitsky City Head for making proposals to the draft Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2019, part of the expenditure on the socio-economic development of the city of Kropivnitsky. Vasil Nimchenk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for delaying the Ministry of Justice in resolving the issue of the return of Ukrainian citizens who are being criminally punished at places of deprivation of liberty in foreign countries. Vasil Nimchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation by the Cabinet of the Ukrainian Ministers of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine on the appointment of Ulya Suprun to serve as the first Deputy Minister of Health, acting as Minister and taking steps to bring Ukraine's government back into the legal field by cancelling the relevant orders and appointments as illegal. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister on the placement of short-term foreign government bonds with a repayment of $725 million in 2019. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the criminal negligence of the management of the MoH in the implementation of the budget programme "Leading Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Acting Minister of Finance, Head of the Ternopil Authority for the financing of the renovation of the premises of the Podvolocchid Public Education School, I-III degrees of the Ternopil Rural Council. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Acting Minister of Finance, Head of the Ternopil government for the repair of the Lanovecki Regional Cultural Center of the Ukrainian National Artist John Marchuk. John Balloga to the Prime Minister for allocating funds for the operation. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sports, to provide a decent salary for the work of trainers and teachers of children's sports schools. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Infrastructure, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, for the termination of the pilot post reform project in the Chernigiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, acting as Minister of Finance for the need to allocate funds from the state budget for the purchase of medical equipment to the municipal institutions of the Voddarsky and Stavishten region of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Director of the Department of Inter-Budget Relations and Expenditures of the Local Budgets of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for changes to the monthly allocation of the General Fund of the State Budget (inter-budgetary transfers) for 2018 for Bilocerkowski, Voddarski, Skirski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyev region of Kyiv region. Vitalia Kupriya to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocuror of the illegal criminal persecution of Ukrainian citizen Philippov O.V. from the prosecutor's office and the police. Paul Kishkar to the minister of foreign affairs regarding the improper performance of his duties as First Secretary of Consular Affairs of the Embassy of Ukraine in Bulgaria Pavlíčenko Natalija. Paul Kishkar to the Head of the Security Service for the Prohibition of the Sale of Aircraft in International Armouring Systems from/to Simferopol Airport. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister on the characteristics of taxation of utilities. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Head of the Cerkas Oblast, Head of the Cherkas Forest and Hunting Department, to facilitate the speeding up of changes between German classes. limit, excuse me, to accelerate the change in the limits of the Hermann ceremony with a view to the realization of citizens' housing rights. Sergey Rybalka to the head of the State Border Service for the enforcement of legislation on the protection of children’s rights. Sergey Rybalka to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, Minister of Information Policy for the Cessation of Russian Radio Broadcasting in the area of the city village of Kirilovka Zaporozhye District. Alexander Dubininin to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the speedy investigation of criminal cases into the inaction of officials in Kamyansky in the matter of the immediate displacement of residents from emergency homes on Lenin Freedom Avenue, 67, Magowo Street, 4th and Pelin Street, 53rd. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Infrastructure for the implementation of the State's Target Rail Transport Reform Programme for the 10th-19th. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the preparation and unbreakable and unbreakable heating season of 18-20 years. Panels of Nardeps (Palamarchy, Kiskara, Krivenka) to Henprocuror for human rights violations during pretrial investigations Andria Shipka to the head of the Nicole District Council, the Nicole City Head, for reporting on the use of funds from the assembly for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Andrea Shipka, head of the Pension Fund, Minister of Social Policy for Retirement, to women who have been awarded the honorary title of Ukraine's Mother Hero. Tetjana Ostrikov to the first deputy minister of agricultural policy to provide information on the use of the budget allocated to state support by agricultural producers in the 18th year. Aunt Ostrichov to the Prime Minister to provide quantitative results in the fight against evasion of payment of customs payments. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir Observatories for immediate assistance in the treatment and provision of child-injured drugs. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for immediate comprehensive assistance to families affected by the fire. Andrija Illenka to the Director of the Kyivdorservis Municipal Enterprise for the establishment of a video surveillance system in the area of the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, head of the Righteous District in Kiev, State Administration, for the restoration of asphalt cover near building No. 9 on Milutenka Street in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovitcha, Gerega, Macola) to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to establish an auxiliary base station for emergency care based on the functioning of the Velikozozuline Hospital of the general practice of family medicine in the Hmelni district of Krasiliv. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt for milk paid by the agricultural production cooperative "First National Production Cooperative" in front of the peasants of the Hmeljna region. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Defence, Attorney General, on the abuse of powers by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding entrepreneurs of the Odessa region Ovidiopol Trade Market. Alexander Dombrovski, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to provide treatment for a severely ill child, Berczak Alexandre. Alexander Dombrovski’s temporary health responsibilities to provide treatment for a severely ill child named Krystina. Jury Wozniak to the Energy Ministry for the Elimination of Violations of Legislation, the Restoration of Social Justice and the Rights of the Population of the Observatory for Social Economic Compensation for the Risk of Population residing in the Observation Zone. Jury Wozniak to the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy to assist the State Forest Resources Agency in the search for ways to increase its production and implement its fannery raw material to ensure sufficient levels of raw materials for national enterprises. Romana Macola to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine for compensation payments to police officers according to legislation. Romana Macola and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnicka observatoire for the allocation of a medical grant to cover the deficit of the district budget for the medical staff of the Shepetov Central District Hospital and the Node Hospital. Sergija Lešchenka to the Ministry of Culture for the conservation of the land area on Michurin Street, is the Bastionny Street in Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to head the Kyiv City Office for Construction Works at Michael Boychuk Street (Kikwidze), 1/2 in the Pecher district of Kyiv. Borislava Bereza to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the approval of illegal territorial details in Kiev. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for the Pollution of Lakes in the Righteous Region of Kiev Igor Popov to the head of the State Migration Service, Minister of Foreign Affairs, to improve the provision of administrative services to Ukrainian citizens abroad. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the conduct of an audit of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the investigation of possible abuses of the Pension Fund, the use of necessary legal response measures, and the provision of payments provided by Ukraine's legislation to pensioners living in unsupervised areas. Oleg Petrenko to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of information on the status of military personnel with military tickets. Groups of National Deputies (Podbreznaka, Kozir and others) to the Prime Minister on the cancellation of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the allocation of the Mikolaivian Region of funds for the construction and reconstruction of roads. Valeria Davidenk, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the immediate restoration of closed railway stations and the use of the operations of the Pat "Ukrzalznica" to deal with the critical situation of freight transport of agricultural and other products. Valeria Davidenka to the director of the Public Shareholders' Association for the non-closure of the Pat "Krnigows" offices in the settlements of the Chernigiv region. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister for the systematic and improper execution of Prime Minister-Minister's orders by officials of ministries and state-owned enterprises. Vassila Petěvka to the Prime Minister for change to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 13 June 2018 No. 423. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvat) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on freight traffic in the Zacarpatsky District Station. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister for the immediate repayment of the payment of salaries to medical workers. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General for improper support of the State's charge by prosecutor Tadeyev in a resonant accident. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič went to the Minister of Education and Science for the Education Subvention to Pay Wages to Pedagogical Employees of the General Secondary Education Institute of the Cemerovetske OTG Hmelnicke District. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science on the need to respond to social tensions due to refusal to register the City List No. 3 with Polish language of instruction. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Defense on the verification of the legality of contract making during the restructuring period between DP MOU "Vinnic Department of Military Trade No. 52 of the Western Operational Command" and TOV "IMT". Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Director General of the State concert "Ucroprom" on the promotion of the transfer of the cultural house, which is on the balance sheet of the Lviv State Plant "LORTA", to the municipal property of the territorial community of Lviv. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Justice about changing the order of use of the National Archive Fund documents, removing accepted restrictions on users' access to archival documents and eliminating the resulting social tension. John Rybak to the head of the Czernovetske oblivion, head of the Putil district government of the Cherniveck region, head of the Sergije Rural Council of the Czerniewec region for the restoration of the Putila-Foska bus route through the village of Sergija in the region of Putil. Alexander Kirsza to the Prime Minister for the delay in providing insulin to patients with diabetes in the city of Kharkova. Alexander Kirsza to Kharkiv City Head for the promotion of the capital renovation of the residence on the street of Akademic Pavlov, No. 148 in the city of Kharkiv Oksana Korczynska to the Prime Minister on the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Ministry's governing composition on the issues of temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons in relation to the functions assigned to the provision of assistance to internally displaced persons. Oxana Korczynska, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the improper performance by medical personnel of her professional duties, a careless, superficial attitude towards patient Stecenko Alona, the wife of the war worker, Steczenk Oleg, the doctors of the maternity ward of the Onufriyev Central District Hospital during the Caesarean plant, and about improperly carried out by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Department of Health of the Kirovgrad District Public Administration of the Commission on the above-mentioned facts. Jurya Solovya to Minister of Infrastructure, head of the State Agency for Motorways for the repair of R-62 Krivorovna - Černovitsa road in areas of km 0+000 - km 13 and km 33 - km 44. Roman Semenha to the head of the National Service Agency for Public Service Affairs to provide information on the progress of public service reform. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Defence for the purpose of clarifying the application of section 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General, Head of the Odessa Authority, Odessa City Head for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Oleg Oosuhovsky to the Prime Minister, Council of Security and Defence, Head of the President's Administration, Head of the Security Service, Henprocuror, Head of the Equality Authority on the Inaction of Law Enforcement Authorities. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the fields of culture, science and education. Jaroslava Markevich to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights regarding the failure of the court to execute its decision to compensate for moral and material harm. Andrija Vadaturski to the President of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise Research "Restructuring" to provide a copy of the contract for carrying out land-based work in accordance with NAAN's decision of December 27th, 17th. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the fulfilment of the requirements of articles 1, 30, 30 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act in the protection of children in the war zone and children affected by armed conflict. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for full compensation from the State budget of Ukraine for the benefits and subsidies of the NWMRC "Novograd Volinsktécommunergo". Sergey Rudika to the deputy head of the Cherkas Observatories for construction within the 198th constituency (Camyan, Smilian and Cherkas regions of the Cherkas region) of housing and facilities for the development of family and other forms of education that are close to the family and housing of orphans, persons of their number. Sergey Rudika to Smilyan City Head of the Cherkas region on urgent measures to stabilize the water supply situation in Smilla, as well as providing information on the readiness of the city for the heating season of 18-19 years and the efficiency of the use of public and local budget funds for the 17th year and 9 months of the current year. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the National Police, Ukraine's Attorney General on the legality of the closure of criminal conduct suspected of by Alexander Zacharchenko, on the course of investigation into the crimes committed by Zacharychenko, on the investigation of the circumstances of his murder, and on the failure to investigate the crime by the Russian Federation. Igor Alekseieva to the city of Kiev on the maintenance of the South Borszagivka public transport stop on the Great Ring Road. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the repair of half a million waitings. Pavilion, I'm sorry. Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the repair of the pavilions waiting at public transport stops on Sadowi Street in the village of Kruglik Kyewo-Svetoshini district of Kyiv region. Irina Souslowy to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, head of the National Police, on the provision of information on the progress of criminal investigations into attacks on the settlement of Roma national minorities. Groups of National Deputies (Consumptions, Armours of Others) ( 11) To the Head of the Court of Auditors, Minister of Foreign Affairs, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the monitoring of the balance of budgetary resources in the accounts of foreign health institutions. Sergey Kaplina to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the verification of actions by officials of the Kyiv City Administration, which resulted in in ineffective spending of funds from the city of Kiev on behalf of the Ucrrosling TOV. Sergey Kaplan to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council for the use of urgent measures to prevent the nation’s biological threat from being introduced in connection with the unprofessional activities of the Ministry of Health. Olga Bogolitz to Prime Minister, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine's Ministry of Finance's responsibility for the immediate financial provision of the budget programme "Leading Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Victor Vuka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney-General for the numerous gross violations of Ukrainian legislation regarding the monument to the archaeology of the national significance of the "Hotov City" and the park of the garden and park art of the state importance of "Feofania". Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the non-closure of the station of the Bodarówka District of Krynipropetrovsk for commercial operations under paragraph 3 of TC No. 4 (handling and taking of freight wagons). John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin Authority for the financing of the medical sector in the Visnik region of the Chernivian region. Jury Lewchenk to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Science and Education, Prime Minister, Authorized President of Children's Rights on a critical situation that has arisen in Kiev to ensure the realization of the constitutional right of Kyiv to pre-school education. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for not allowing the demolition of the Turivska 12 Street hostel in the Podiljska district of Kiev as a result of its transfer to private property for further housing in its place and the refusal of the residents of the hostel. Jury Timoshenko to the Deputy Minister of Justice for the Executive Service to ensure payment of alimony. Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister for the introduction of remote data transmissions for consumers of municipal services. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, the head of the Vinnitsky Observatories, the head of the Žmerinsky District Administration, the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Vinnitsky Region, the head of the GUNP Police Department in the Vinnitsky area, on the impermissibility of garbage disposal in the area of the Žmerinsky district of Winnitsky. Alexander Vilkula to the Minister of Education and Science on the definition of legal status and the creation of favourable conditions for the development of gifted children. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister, Head of the Pension Fund, Minister of Social Policy for the Recalculation of Pensions to Liquidators of the Chernobyl AES Accident and the Mechanisms for the Implementation of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Groups of Nardeps (Gorva, Lunchenko, Petovka) to the Prime Minister on the completion of the implementation process of Act No. 2360 of Ukraine and on the development of the production of wine and natural honey. Groups of people’s deputies (Lushnaka, Negoya, and others) 15) to the Prime Minister to consider the possibility of purchasing a ambulance. Oksana Bilozer to the head of Kyiv City State Administration on taking steps to bring the students to a proper and safe place, for the sake of life and health, the condition of the secondary education school No. 162 of Kiev. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the organization of proper transport services for internally displaced persons who live in hostels in the territory of the National Park of “Megigira”. Jury Derevyanka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Civil and Military Cooperation Directorate of the U.S. U.S.A., on the need to respect constitutional principles and international standards of volunteering and charitable activities in the area of military action when regulating the situation of civil organizations, civil society activists, volunteer movements, individual volunteers and citizens in the area of operations of the United Nations. Jury Derevyanka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources on the need to ensure the removal of land from Carpathian National Park for the implementation of Presidential Decree No.215/2010 of 23 February 2010 on the extension of the territory of Carpathian National Natural Park, with the aim of providing them further to the citizens who belong to the respective territorial communities of the Jaremcan City Council of Johno-Frankiv region. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa Authority on the need to improve public safety in connection with violations of rules on keeping pets at national and local levels. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate cessation of Ukrainian State Property Fund orders Nos. 658 and No. 656/30 and for their compliance with the requirements of current legislation. I will continue to work until all the questions that are currently registered in Parliament are made public. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of affordable housing for military personnel and other citizens according to the State Investment Project on Housing on Mortgage Loan or Financial Lease. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of military salaries, which is less than the minimum wage. Paul Djublik to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on violations of environmental legislation and pollution of the environment by poison chemists T.O. "Green Land Slavuta" in the territory of the Chernykhiv region of the Žitomir region. Paul Dziblik to the prosecutor of the Gitomir district, the head of the National Police Department in the Zitomir region, for the commission of a crime in the village of Grodište in the Zitomir region. Mary Ionova and Irina Heratschenko, head of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Affairs on the use of measures and reactions regarding the expression and activities of the Ukrainian national deputy Eugene Balitsky, who has signs of national hatred and hatred, humiliation of national honour and dignity. Dear colleagues, we have concluded with you to publish these requests, which have now come to the presidency and registered with the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a few references to the dissatisfied. I continue to work for 12 hours 10 minutes. Two questions are from Sergei Vlasenko. For three minutes, please join us in one act. Well, then I'll close it at all. Please, three minutes, Mr. Sergei. Please, Mr. Sergio, come to the rostrum. Three! Three! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the chairman now says she's a living person, and she's the deputy head of the Supreme Council, and we have to follow the Rules. So I have six minutes to go. Two, two questions. I've been asking two questions from the National MP. The first was the American citizenship of Mrs. Ulyana Suprun’s Minister of Health. I asked you to answer one simple question: When will she give up American citizenship? When did she give up American citizenship? I never got an answer. We have to stop external governance by the Ukrainian state by foreign citizens. We already had Mrs. Jaresko's Minister of Finance, who negotiated, restructured the debt, and now the government is telling us that we have huge payments because American Jaresko was negotiating with the American International Monetary Fund for the Restructuring of Ukrainian Debt. The simple question is, where's the Ukrainian interest? He's gone. Then Mrs. Jaresko went to Puerto Rico. We have the same situation in the medical field right now, where an American citizen, Mrs. Suprun's paratrooper, is doing research on Ukrainian citizens, and then she's going to go back and cover herself up with an American passport. But I didn't get an answer. And the second question I've asked for is for this well-known ICU company, these are Peter Dustenk's financial bankers. I asked them to answer or are they buying, or did they get control of Russia's largest Burger King network? So I wonder whose money they invested there? Because it was this company for the directors and owners of Mrs. Hontareva, Mr. Pasenyuk, and others that placed these famous 1.5 billion Janukovic. They helped Yanukovic steal this money from Ukrainian citizens, not taking any responsibility, because they have a nice roof in the person of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. These boys began not to answer the questions, and they began to ask what they were interested in: on the basis of which parliamentary powers I was interested in information about whether or not the powder bankers were investing in the money of Dusty in the Russian Burger King. Well, the consequences of my failure to respond will be to the National Police and as well as to the leadership of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's National Shareholder Company, I'm sure a criminal case will be prosecuted for obstructing parliamentary activity. And a few more words I wanted to say about what's going on in our last few days in the Ukrainian Parliament. It was registered, the Law on Lawyers 9055 was registered yesterday. But yesterday, unfortunately, for some reason, no one could give me the text of that law as a national MP. Today, after realizing that there would be a scandal, the text suddenly appeared on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But yesterday the President’s website reported that the bill had been drafted on the basis of a broad discussion in legal circles. I wonder who Peter Alexiyovich was discussing this with: Léša Filatov, who is sitting with him in the Administration, doing his illegal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u92	30 seconds, please bet on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u93	By carrying out his illegal orders, does he put pressure on the court? And this is Lyosha Filatov, who forgot to include his own child and his own wife in an electronic declaration to avoid conflict of interest? But now this matter is being investigated in the NABU. Did they consult with those boys who lived by the break-up of President Yanukovic's Administration, breaking the wrong Law on Lawyers? And now the same boys live at Philatova's reception, were they consulted? I think we need to consult with a wide range of lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a note to the presiding officer. I would like to point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the meeting will end at 12 o'clock. And the presiding little, yes, thank you again for the remark. At 12: 00 a.m., the presiding officer had the full right to call a recess at 12 o’clock. I'm asking you not to interrupt the chairman. I respect your speech. I'm not breaking the rules. You respect everyone here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u95	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, as presiding officer, I now make a note of the people's deputy who has just spoken for, first of all, for the fact that, first of all, he interrupts the presiding officer, and second of all, he behaves as he does not like the national deputy of Ukraine. I can't ignore it, because, first of all, I'm the presiding officer, and second of all, I'm calling for it to be valid. I'm asking you to be correct to the audience in this room. And I point out, Mr. Derevyanko, that your colleague has taken this time of yours. I'll give you three minutes, please. And I'd like to ask the regulatory committee, well, to pay some attention to what's going on in this room. Okay? When everyone teaches the Presidency how to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u97	It's 12 o'clock. Please obey the Rules and do not interrupt the rostrum. And enough to provoke everyone in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u98	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". I have been asked by the deputy to the Head of the Supreme Council for the need for an immediate introduction to the Supreme Council of the Order on the lifting of the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of certification of conformity in the manufacture, manufacture, implementation, acquisition of goods and works and services in the military sphere." What is it? This is Bill 1793, which we, honourable colleagues, adopted as the Supreme Council as early as January 2016, which refers to the irreparability of punishment for crimes against the foundations of national security and defence of Ukraine. When any fraud or any bad person sells to our Armed Forces, to our military formation unquality goods, jobs or services, these changes to the Criminal Code and to the Criminal Procedure Code provide for the punishment of such criminals who ignore our defence and security, exploit our Ukrainian army and sell unquality goods and services that do not meet the standards that do not meet the requirements that do not meet anyone. What happened to this law? On January 26, the law was passed and, surprisingly, the law was passed by President Prashenko. On January 27, the People’s Deputy Vinnik was ordered by the Supreme Council to repeal the bill. Vinnik noted that there were seemingly violations during the vote, even though he himself was not present in the hall. And this whole period of time, more than 2.5 years, this law, it's not broken down, it's not voted out, it's not signed. Why? Because artificial conditions are being created so that, starting January 16, the various bad people who are robbing the Ukrainian army today can profit from war, steal completely without hindrance, and they could not be punished. And already eight times, the head of the profiling committee addressed the Supreme Council. I personally made a request and a request, and I, imagine, sent by Mr. Parobius and sent the Chief of the Supreme Council to get to know my original address about failing this decision and putting it to a vote and signing this law. To sign a law that protects the Ukrainian army, which protects us all from being stolen from the Ukrainian army, and this is Bill 1793. The order from the BPP, which Vinick has, has been hanging for 2.5 years. And the head of the Supreme Council ignores the demands of the committee head, contrary to my repeated demands. I understand why this is happening. This is because today the beneficiary owner of the Lenin cousin and many other things is Mr. Dustenko, and the mass of criminal cases in this area also exists. I demand that all of this be put to the vote and that this decree be broken, and that this law be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no more here who have applied for dissatisfaction with the answers. I don't know, maybe the secretariat didn't pass it on, Mr. Sergei. There's still Mrs. Wojcietsky here, only Mrs. Wojcietsky, yours isn't here. I'm gonna call it a 30-minute break. And after that. By 12:40, I'll call it a 30-minute break. That is the Rules. After that, we will have the opportunity for all the deputies who want to join the "Variance" series to sign up and participate in the series. At 12:40, we'll start recording, please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, please. We're continuing our meeting. And now, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we do. I'm sorry, and now we're going according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules to the "Rizzne" section that we have every Friday of our session. I ask all those who wish to participate in this section to sign up, please. Please welcome to the speech of the national deputy Paul. Galchenko? Please, National Deputy Galchenko has the right to speak. Please. Please give the floor to the national deputy Galchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u101	Dear people of Ukraine! By the start of the heating season, there was only one month left, but for many Ukrainians, it might not start. First of all, there is a critical situation involving the failure of the State to guarantee part of the cost compensation to enterprises that provide housing and utility services to the population benefit categories and to the recipients of housing subsidies. As of September 1, 2018, the loan payable to enterprises for benefits and housing subsidies to residents of the Horn alone is 177 million dollars, 80 percent of which is the debt for heating. And in Ukraine as a whole, it's 4.4 billion dollars. The benefits and subsidies. During the heat supply, the state has not even been counted for the heating season 2017-2018, where the debt owed to the Communal Company "Croat Warmage" is 36.4 million dollars, and the State-owned company "Croat Heat Centre" is almost 105 million dollars. And another 62 million dollars is the difference in tariffs. This is on display for privatization and managed by the Fund of the State of Ukraine. To understand the last one. It depends on the heat. To keep people warm is 300,000 inhabitants, 30,000 children in schools and kindergartens, and nearly one and a half thousand patients in hospitals and hospitals. Secondly, adopted by the government from May 1st to the Order of Assignment and Subsidies Regulation, a large proportion of citizens were deprived of subsidy rights for whatever reason. And the total amount of subsidies to Ukrainian families in this year has been reduced by more than four times, which could lead to massive housing and utility failures that have already led to poverty. That is, millions of Ukrainians in winter will be chosen either to buy and feed their children or to pay for only 2 or 4 thousand dollars. And thirdly, people come to me and resent that the thermal power plant doesn't even set the counters that have to be set by law. People still pay huge costs for heat, and they still have no way of saving with the counter. I'm asking the government to intervene immediately with the profile ministries. And I'm also calling on the Holding Foundation and the Minregion to give guarantees for the start of the heating season without everyone. In all the cities of Ukraine, without exception. Therefore, we should be concerned about people, not just about politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Linko. Noisyuku gives the right to speak. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said: Haleuk, yes. Lousy guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u103	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday Parliament adopted a strategically important law for national interests and for every citizen on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and criminalization of the smuggling of roundwood forests. This law has long been initiated by the Radical Party team and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. It predicts three very important standards. The first norm is criminal responsibility for smuggling roundwoods, so that criminals who illegally export Ukrainian natural resources abroad, who make Ukraine an orphan colony, who make Ukrainians forced workers and send them to Europe to earn a living there to punish these criminals by 12 years for the illegal removal of roundwood against the moratorium that we had previously adopted with you in the Ukrainian Parliament. The second, extremely important norm of this law is to protect the moratorium on the export of roundwoods from any encroachment in European and all other international courts. You know what kind of crazy pressure is being exerted on Ukraine to reverse the moratorium. They offer loans, they press, they convince Ukraine to cancel the moratorium. But neither Oleg Lášk nor the Radical Party team nor any pro-Ukrainian political power in our Parliament will allow the moratorium to be lifted on forest exports. And yesterday we substantially reinforced this ten-year ban on the removal of roundwood from Ukraine. The moratorium is working. In the past year alone, he has brought an additional 4 billion dollars of non - raw exports of finished products sold abroad. He brought half a billion dollars of extra money into the budget, which is the payment of pensions, wages, this is the directing of health care, education, the army. It's very important. Investments in Ukrainian woodworking have doubled. This is real support for small and medium-sized businesses all over the country. But you know, unfortunately, the violent smuggling is holding back the effectiveness of the Forest Roundingham Export Act. And so in the Forest Conservation Act, we included a ban on the export of wood so that the Ukrainian round would not be imported into wood. Regrettably, the president of Ukraine made this very important strategic commitment. The veto of the President of Ukraine is playing at the hands of smugglers, it's playing at the hands of European importers illegal to the Ukrainian forest, the veto makes Ukrainians poorer, and it makes the country hostage to the International Monetary Fund. We stand for the adoption of this rule in the new law, and we look at the state standards, and we stop the smuggling of roundwood.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u104	Thank you. People's MP, Linko. Please, let me speak to you. It's just that I didn't have a Halasyuk on my computer at all. And they put out a list, and there it is. There must be some computer malfunctions. Please. Please, Mr. Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u105	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. At a time when Ukraine is plagued by currency exchange rates, when our currency is dwindling, we get an extra blow on our economy, and our business loses the currency revenue every day. It's because there's actually no current pull at the Cruise Station, the Lvivsky and the Transnistrian railway, where there's no discharge and no metallurgical raw material, and the agrarians are losing huge damage because the railway is actually blocked today. The shortage, the total lack of wagons, the total lack of locomotives that we're, by the way, buying for a billion dollars in the U.S., not in Ukraine, instead of our businesses operating, but even those tasks that we're doing are not doing. Less than 20 percent of what should be purchased this year have been done. The Radical Party requires that the necessary measures be taken and at the level of the government, so that the Prime Minister personally intervenes in the situation, because the Crucifixion Management specifically creates such a deficit and then through corruption, to give to a freight forwarder or a freight forwarder. That's why, by the way, we're losing about 15 billion, at low estimates only, 15 billion dollars we're losing because of the corruption of management at the Cruise Station, which creates such a deficit that our farms, our metallurgy, other businesses, cannot deliver their goods and unload the materials they need. Similarly, we draw attention to the disastrous situation in Priaby today. Oleg Lasko has proposed an anti-crisis plan that needs to be put into effect immediately in order to prevent the possible risks that the Russian Federation poses to us today, blocking our ships in the Azov Sea. We need to immediately expand the railway connection of the Zorya-Wolnovah Commission so that we can unlock Mariupol so that our metallurgical enterprises can work. Because if we lose the shipping routes of Berdjansk and Mariupol, in fact our businesses and our cities in Priedova will be blocked. And that means the destruction of businesses, the destruction of thousands of jobs. So now we need to think about the additional ways in which transport links can be made in advance of the opposition of the Russian Federation. Today, according to our colleague Victor Halasyuk, about $70 million a month is lost in metallurgy. Similarly, about a hundred million dollars loses the agrarian sector of monetary income. That is why our currency has been undervalued in the last week. We demand that the right decisions be made by the government immediately, to influence the operations of the Crucifixion Management, because the continuation of Mr. Balchun's wrong policies continues to carry out the duties of Kravtsov. By the way, we still have responsibilities. All the principal positions in the country are in our responsibilities. The authorities simply do not take responsibility and do not assign those who have to test responsibility to take the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u106	Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there are many debates in society today about what will be President Dusty's political strategy for his transition. You know, I formulated this strategy for myself in a single word, and that's the word "false." He'll be lying about himself that he's supposed to be a patriot. He'll be lying about himself that he doesn't seem to be trading in occupied territory. He'll be lying about himself that he doesn't seem to be trading with the Russian Federation. He'll be lying about himself that it's not like he assigned Medvedchuk to the Minsk contact group. He's going to lie that it's not like he's trading scrap gas with permission from the aggressor country. He will lie about real, not mythical, opponents, and a vivid example of this is the totally falsified, lying attack on the leader of the "Fatherland" party, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and her family, carried out by Peter Alexeiovich Poroshenko, not with his own hands, but with his own hands, from there and from there. So this lie will continue everywhere, this is the only strategy that Peter Poroshenko can use today. But I want to talk to you about a lie, a legal lie. We all remember how we started our so-called judicial reform -- from a lie. When we are told to accept the Law on Righteous Judgment, there will be a just judgment. When said, vote for the changes to the Constitution, and tomorrow every citizen of Ukraine will be able to receive legal protection without hindrance. And manipulations of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act are not at all subject to any normal explanation. And the same lie happens with the Law on Lawyers. Yesterday, there was a statement on the Ukrainian President's website that the bill was allegedly discussed with a wide range of lawyers. I asked this question from this rostrum, and I repeat it again. Peter Alexiovich, with whom did you discuss him? With Lyosha Filatov? With a person who is accused directly of having an influence on the courts and judges in your behalf? So you can make illegal decisions about your business? With Lyosha Filatov, who, having a direct conflict of interest, did not indicate his wife in the declaration and the little child in order to hide his own belongings? By the way, this question is being investigated by the NAB. Did you have these talks with those boys who spent the night in the Janukovich administration in the offices with the riots? The boys from the bar who are staying the night, the same boys are staying in your administration's quarters in Philatov? Did you consult with them? Have extensive consultations with the lawyer’s community, and do not touch the lawyer with your dirty hands. Because everything you touch with dirty hands then dies when an independent court system is lost, how an independent prosecutor's system is lost. I understand your desire to stifle it and take control of the lawyer so that the person can't defend himself in court at all, we won't give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u108	Please welcome the National Deputy Zaporko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u109	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! The leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, always tells us that we need to take care of the main things. What could be more important to the State than the life and health of its citizens? That is why the Radical Party always fights to ensure that medical services are accessible, quality and timely for every Ukrainian citizen. Our faction was offered the "Available Drugs" program. When we announced this program two years ago, we were told that we were populists, as if it were impossible at all, as if it were too expensive, as if it had never been. But we did it! And today, 1 billion dollars are allocated to this program, and several million Ukrainians are regularly using it. We are also now choosing the Ukrainians ’ right to increase the program twice to reach two billion dollars, so that the list of medicines that people receive under this program is expanded to include medicines for those who are currently on the verge of being sentenced very often to death, if the family does not have enough resources to treat them, and families are forced to sell the latter to ensure the treatment of loved ones and relatives. And this is a disgrace to the country. We have to do this. That's why we're in favour of tight control of drug sales. We're against falsifying drugs, we're against making profits in the health and life of Ukrainians, so that the profitability in pharmacies is 200 to 300 percent, not as in neighbouring countries -- 10 to 20 percent. We think it's a shame that drugs in Ukraine cost 5-6, 10 times more than they do in neighboring Poland and Belarus. This is a disgrace to Ukraine! We fight to make prices fair. "How do you do that?" – they tell us. This can be done very easily: by correcting VAT on medicines and by limiting profitability. And every Ukrainian can get available drugs in pharmacies at an affordable and normal price. Also, strong responsibility for falsifying drugs, increasing criminal responsibility to 8 years will ensure that Ukrainians are guaranteed that the drugs they receive are of good quality. What else do we require? We're demanding an increase in the state funding programmes for cancer patients, because this funding is not enough right now. We will support Bill 8035, which will make it possible this year to increase funding for these programs. Now I have a letter here from people who have already made numerous protests before the MOH and the Supreme Council, but unfortunately they have not been heard, they are relatives of the ill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u110	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u111	Oncócó, many of them children, are very young. For example, Vitoszynski Eduard, 28, Hergalo Svetlana, 29 years old; Ilya Nevesely, 6 years old; Kovalova Victoria, 10 years old; Selovončik Jaroslava, 16 years old; Skripov Vladimir Aleksandrovich, 45 years old. All these people need help from the State. And the State assumed the responsibility to provide proper medical care and treatment for these people. If these operations cannot be done in Ukraine, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, the next speech is the People's Deputy of Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u113	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party For the last three weeks before Parliament, I, along with the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, held meetings with thousands of people, thousands of Ukrainians in clothes, Poland, Kharkish, Lugansk, Lviv, Ternopilščina, Plainskin, Žitomyrščina. What did we hear? The basics of the people. I'm approached by Vasil Petrovich of Kremenecina in Ternopolska, a disabled person in Afghanistan, and he says, "In my village, which I almost never leave, they close the mail. The government. "Shit mail" leaves people out of contact with the world, without being able to write, without being able to read the periodic press. In fact, people are cut off from information. The Radical Party of Oleg Laska demands that this genocide be stopped against the peasants, not to close down the Crucifixion Department, but to support the village mailman. The other one. In my native Lubna in Poltavščina comes Love Ivanovna, 76 years old, a resident of the village of Zasulla, and brings Oleg Valeriovich Lašek gas payments, which Lubnigaz counted, which cannot be paid, which is not explained at all, which is taken from the sky. And here the government is offering to raise to 12,000 the price of gas, and this is because Kobolev, the Naftogaz of Ukraine, is getting 3 million wages, 45 million euros a bonus. The Radical Party of Oleg Láška requires the leadership of Naftogazu in Parliament, a report from this rostrum and the liberation of Kobolev. What's more, we're demanding a criminal offense because they steal and they don't allow, they create a monopoly and they don't allow other companies to extract gas. Third. Yesterday I was at the clinic of Amos and met Tamara Arkadyevna of the Plain. She weeps with such tears of crocodiles, she weeps. Why Does Man Cry? Because she can't find medical care all over the country and come to Kiev. Who's to blame? B.O. Minister of Health Suprun The branch is destroyed, the doctors are crying, the patients are crying: Stop the medical deficit. There will be both Suprun and Kobolev sitting on the bench of the defendants after Lashko becomes president.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u114	Please give the next speech, National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u115	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I've come to understand from the previous speaker that all those who perform their functions today are part of a society called "Sit All Will Be." This must be the logical conclusion of what is taking place. See what we have today in health care. One hundred and twenty - two million dollars have been allocated to the implementation of the transplant pilot project. Everyone knows that every year, in the absence of technology, we send our people for treatment abroad. The only question is that the money is missing forever. There's a question. This is a person, the head of the Ministry of Health, who signs a budget that he considers to be a patriot of Ukraine, why is he knowingly signing sums that are not enough to treat people? And that's people's lives. It's just death. It's like that kind of thing. The minister at the approval of the budget stood up and said, "Mr. Groissman, I'm not signing this budget because there's no money." However, this is obviously not in her best interests. Moreover, when we say that there is a need to channel additional funds for the treatment of these people, the Ministry of Health insists that they do not have such funds. 112 million dollars that could be redistributed, and this is a permit from the Ministry of Finance signed by the minister in April, in the middle. The Ministry of Health has been managing the funds, sadly, for four months now. Moreover, you know that here in the High Council session room, the committee has made a statement declaring work unsatisfactory and that the actions of the Ministry of Health in the direction of directing people abroad are considered a crime. And this position has led us to the well-known Cabinet of Ministers, to the point where we've broken through with great difficulty. We've all been trying to explain that here on the government day, please express your position. That's exactly what we've come up with on this issue. But cynicism is that the third or fourth issue in the agenda of the Ministry of Health’s office, the Ministry of Health, has decided to redistribute the 112 million into a 75 million share of the cost reduction and directing it, consider the purchase of waste materials, bank charges, hardware purchases, and so on. Having the opportunity to direct this money to the treatment of people by having material that is objective, these people continue to be cynical about the abuse of people. The 200 signatures of the people’s deputies for Linchevski’s resignation remained unanswered. We demand that funds be made available immediately for the treatment of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u116	Thank you. The next one, please, is Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, distinguished Ukrainians! I have for you, my dear colleagues and dear friends, such news. If you, Ukrainians, want your interests to be in the form of a legislative initiative presented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in exchange for your professional or personal loyalty, you need to find one or two influential deputies of the Supreme Council, agree with them, promise, actually, that loyalty, and then you have to be convinced by 100 percent that this bill, your lobbyist bill, will be in the walls of the Supreme Council and will be included in the agenda. What am I talking about, and what example do I have? It's just that there's so much going on, not all of them, but a lot of processes in the Supreme Council. On June 19th of this year, a bill was rejected by vote, openly discriminatory, which creates special conditions and has a huge corruption component for a small part, perhaps for 10-20 soloists of opera theaters in Ukraine. So this bill doesn't extend to hundreds of thousands of people who are now looking forward to dealing with the problems of Europlums, for example. This bill does not extend to millions of people who are awaiting amendments to electoral legislation. This bill does not extend to millions of people, to the entire Ukrainian people, who still look forward to changing the Central Electoral Commission. This bill touches 10-20 people. All of this is covered with very beautiful dresses, as if these people were going abroad, and so their vacation at their own expense should last indefinitely. I have a question: Why engage in the public service if you can do 160 or 200 days at your own expense? Can we imagine such a bill in any European country? Why this bill applies to the 10-20 soloists of national operas, it's still a big question, a review of the criteria under which those statuses are assigned. And it doesn't apply, for example, to teachers or teachers from other academic institutions who, in fact, have a higher qualification, which is the motive for this bill, for example, they go to Fulbright's scholarship for a year, for two or other scholarships. Instead, a similar bill that violates all the rules of the Rules is reintroduced into the session room. So, honourable voters, please conclude on how often the Supreme Council is doing its own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u118	Thank you. And please allow me to take the floor with you, National Deputy Kirsch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u119	Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv, the Northern Front. Ladies and gentlemen, now that the government, the different parties, are reporting on the country's economic situation, it is very important which indicator should be the general criterion of the country's economy. Some people call it a gross product, but a gross product depends on how many intermediaries work from the manufacturer to the consumer. Some call wage levels. But here it's important if there's inflation in the country. Because you and I have already been millionaires, and on our own, the wage level doesn't prove anything. Even the level of currency stability is not general. Because when there's neither demand nor supply, then the national currency could be huge, but it's a "mining" stability, not the stability of an active economy. The U.S. Federal Reserve System, which is the National Bank of the United States, thinks that the overall indicator of activity and the sphere itself, and the economy in general, is population employment. The very employment of the population provides both a standard of living and competition between employers, which increases wages. Employment is also a mass of goods. And along with the increase in the mass of goods, and the increase in the exchange rate. But employment is still demand and not just demand, but demand is plentiful. So that's the demand that makes sense to both trade and production. So a high level of currency is now being provided at a high level. When not just demand is equal to supply, when both are high and others are high, which means both high wages and a high standard of living. But it doesn't take a policy of expensive money, expensive money, expensive money that the government now has, and by the way, it does not just in Ukraine, but it does have a level of credit that you can take that you can pay for the percentages that are real to the borrower. Because when there's no credit or investment, there's no employment. And when there's no employment, there's no economy. Tax law must be quite different then. So there's a point to making something. In order to attract investors, investors are not only external investors but also internal investors. And of course, the interest rate has to be so that you can take credit. So that banks are not just currency exchange points, cash exchange points, but banks are doing their main function, that is, lending. No credit, no employment. There won't be any work, there won't be anything. Busy. - more than anything. Employment is the most important economic indicator.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u120	Thank you. Please welcome national MP John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u121	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, our ninth session of the eighth call began. And perhaps today our voters are waiting in their districts after their vacation, because, again, I have five districts on Winnitzkin waiting for the National MP to come and tell them something, and I'm going to say, I'm going to say something to someone, and I'm going to say, "What's going on in the Supreme Council." But unfortunately, we can see that it started with dirt, and the more presidential elections are coming. And that's more than that. The people will hear, not what we are doing today for the Ukrainian people, but what filth we are watering on each other. Whether it's the power or the opposition, it's the wish that we don't get dirty, but do everything we can to set our shoulders for this kind of work together. Fair enough, for example, today's question to the government was asked, for example, from self-help to the Cabinet of Ministers: would the decision of April 25 at number 435, as it's being done to increase the level of road safety, be there costs? And, indeed, the government would like to find these funds. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, maybe yes, maybe that's what Mr. Igor asked. Oh, yeah, yeah, I remember. And that's very fair and right. But for example, my constituents, where I have a farm district, farmers, farmers, entrepreneurs, are interested. Once again, these are the costs that have been spent on agriculture, are they going to reach the peasants all? Because there's a particle, half of it already. Today, I was asked a question by Groissman. And he said that after all, it would be done. But I'd really like them to get there, because every farm farmer is investing in the construction of a farm. Because it is rightly said that this cow should no longer be included in the Red Book, and we should allocate these funds. And in the 19th year budget, too, our colleagues said that, and in the 19th year budget, I also wanted these funds to be set up for agriculture to be allocated. Otherwise, we know perfectly well that all these payments should be. But, at the same time, we must, first of all, not fight, but set up our shoulders, set our shoulders to carry out the tasks that lie before us, before the Supreme Council. And I would very much like the Lord God to give us the mind, that we may all be determined, all of us. all that was taken into this Hall of the Supreme Council to serve the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u122	Thank you. And the word is given to Mrs. Romanova, the national deputy, more loyally. Mrs. Romanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u123	Dear Ukrainian people, my speech is about how different the words of the Ukrainian government are from the real things. Today, the minister of education spoke about the course for the modernization of vocational schools. But what's really going on. In fact, in that disgraceful budget, for which the Self-Help faction did not actually vote, and called on Parliamentary colleagues not to vote, too, in that budget that was deprived of health money, there was no money available for education for the same modernization. And let's talk about what the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, after the same budget was approved, sent a letter to all the heads of the government where she recommended that a plan be made to bring the modernization plan to the Ministry of Finance, taking into account, there was the very word "shortening" of the same institutions of trade and technology. So what does "modernization" mean? The word "modernisation" refers to the same reduction in the vocational schools needed for Ukraine, in rural areas, in cities. And what's really going on? An elemental example, the city of Chernigu. In this room, when there was a question to the government, we repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education, as to the issue of the closure of residence in Chernigov. And here's the transcript, there's the record, the Prime Minister promised and Prime Minister Groisman promised the Self-Help faction that it would never happen. It was this summer that he ceased to exist in the city of Chernigov. And such examples can be cited in countless ways throughout Ukraine. Yesterday we voted in favour of the very needed Law on Inclusive Education for Children with Special Educational Needs. At the same time, a special education school is planned to be closed in Chernigov. So what's really going on? What education system are we talking about? Me and the Self-Help faction demand, I've sent a request for which I haven't received an answer from the Ministry of Education in two months, to prove the methodology of the same reduction and the promotions, how many institutions we've already lost after these letters from the Ministry of Finance, and who's really responsible for this. You see, in places, they shut down establishments without methodology and just like local queens, who measure or rural heads consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u124	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u125	And they usually close these very facilities, which have very attractive facilities in the city center or very attractive dormitories that have already been looked at. That's why we need someone to take responsibility and specific people, specific officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education for the fact that we are irreversibly losing our education system, and Ukraine becomes unattractive to investors who would like to open up here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Barna to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u127	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Ukrainian people! They came from the Republic of Poland last night, where they were at the International Economic Forum of Krinica Zdruj, particularly speaking on security issues. Obviously, we have yet the task of Ukrainian politics to bring to the world the threat posed by hybrid warfare in Russia not only against Ukraine but also against Europe and the whole world. And the main ones that came together in this forum were to counter Russia's collective aggression against Europe, in particular, with our people, with our army. And to counteract the hybrid wars of Russia, we must combine hybrid methods, including not only military means, but also political, diplomatic, economic, financial, including cyber assets. We need to do everything right so that international organisations such as the UN can finally move from declaration to action. In particular, commit countries that guaranteed the security of our country during nuclear disarmament to the fulfilment of the Budapest Memorandum. In particular, take over Russia's veto and introduce UN peacekeepers and take control of the Ukrainian-Russian border. We need to understand that there is no need to pursue the consequences and to respond accordingly to any opposition to Russia’s new weapons. First of all, we need to create conditions such as to prevent Russia from creating new weapons and expanding military aggression. And this is only possible because of the continuation and strengthening of economic sanctions that could provoke an economic crisis in Russia, which would simply prevent it from financing its military-industrial complex by carrying out new weapons or financing aggression outside its country, that is, in Ukraine or in Syria. And we need to understand that where "Russian peace" is, so I went to NATO and Europe's partners, that where "Russian peace" is, there's horror, there's ruins, there's war, there's blood and there's death. In addition, I would very much appeal to our media in this way to highlight the common position of Ukrainian politicians on the promotion of public interest. Because it has been thought lately that some pseudojournalists have been paying more attention to how to cause some sort of glazing among the Ukrainian politics, to spread nonsense or other provocations rather than to unite the nation, to unite the people in the defense of our state, sovereignty, and the struggle for our independence. Except when we're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u128	30 seconds, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u129	about the protection of our sovereignty, I would like to pay attention only to the fact that we are willing to protect the state and we are protecting it, we are restoring the army. But we can lose our state if we, the Ukrainian people are recklessly voting for a presidential candidate -- a man loyal to Putin, around whom all the oligarchs who robbed the state were united. So, obviously, now more than ever, we need unity, unity for victory, for independence and for our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Rephat Chubarov. Please, Mr. Rephat.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, my introduction will to some extent resonate with what my colleague Barna has just been doing. In the temporarily occupied Crimea, a massive ecological disaster is taking place, and a huge 42 - km - long spacer continues to mate with acid ingredients. And the question is not in the lack of water for these assholes, the reason is the unfortunate exploitation of the Crimean Titan factory in the Russian economy, in cooperation with the Ukrainian company Irshan Mining and Enriching Company, which is in Žitomirščina, and which continues to provide luminite as a raw material for the Crimean Titan. How much this has been said, but no action has been taken by any law enforcement authorities or authorities. Now the trouble has come on both sides of the administrative border, dividing the temporarily occupied peninsula and the mainland of Ukraine. Russian occupation authorities have launched a violent information attack against the Ukrainian State on environmental disasters in Armenia to avoid being held responsible for the criminal acts it is committing in the temporarily occupied Crimea. It is a good thing that Peter Poroshenko, president of Ukraine, and other members of the National Security Council, made this decision very clear yesterday. particularly with regard to the targeting at the site of an environmental disaster of representatives of international special institutions, including organizations banning chemical weapons. Friends, we are absolutely right when we insist that the ultimate value for the state and for society in the temporarily occupied territories is people, our citizens. But we know that the invaders often destroy his living space, his home, his land for the murder of humans. In Crimea, Russian occupation. Russian invaders purposefully destroy Crimea, making it impossible for further development and human life. They do so consciously because their goal is to destroy the Crimean Tatar nation, the indigenous people of the peninsula. I would like you to feel again the pain that is now in the hearts of hundreds of thousands of people in the Crimea who have struggled their entire lives to return to the land that the Russian occupation in their eyes today so purposefully destroys and poisons. And that's why what my colleague Barna said and our mission is to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u132	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u133	The task and, above all, the Ukrainian Parliament, to engage in these forms of our activities and to plan such tasks before society, despite the electoral year, so that the question, the task of the depopulation of Crimea, the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk were at the forefront of Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u134	Thank you for your very timely presentation, Mr. Refate. And the national deputy Eutuszek is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u135	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have raised many questions in the session room today that concern our forest sector first. I also asked Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman today to present both the session hall and others, all those who listened to us and watched TV channels, what was really going on. He said that there is now an audit that will answer many questions, such as how state forest enterprises and where they were directing their forest. But I want to say, as long as this audit is going on, we already see a bad situation in this area, because in November of last year, the government approved a strategy by 2020, a forest management strategy that hides, provides for the transfer of our forests to concessions or private structures. Clearly, the purpose of such a program is to rob everyone, pick up forests, and privatize. This will cause us to lose all our forests. Moreover, since 2015 there has been no funding for conservation, forest protection, reforestation, and this is also a chaotic mechanism that can't be balanced because we understand that a lot of forests are being cut down and exported abroad. I also want to draw attention to the fact that, for three years now, no state-owned forestry enterprises have been financed, which are located in the east. People are getting laid off, and that is again the challenge of losing our forest fund in the east of our country. In the last session, in the eighth session, our Parliament, unfortunately, in a very good law, which serves to support farming, has made an amendment, which unfortunately adds to the taxation of forest enterprises, state-owned enterprises. They still had a penny tax, that is, for each cut tree they paid a tax. Now by this law, the plots in our Parliament have, unfortunately, succeeded in bringing about an amendment that makes it impossible for these state-owned enterprises to work. What will this lead to? This will lead to the privatisation of all the retrenchers, and the forest will be in private hands. So I'm asking you to consider my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because a lot of people are addressing us as "parents", personally to Yulia Timoshenko, asking for protection and to allow you to see a strategy as the forest will develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Please welcome Mikhailo Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u137	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear voters! Respectable Ukrainian citizens who look and listen to us. We are now finishing the first week of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. You know, there's this folk thing: when you start a business, you finish it. So tell me, please, at least one bill that we can go out with right now and tell people that, honourable citizens, we worked for you this week. No such bill, except for the bill that covered the protection of Ukrainian forests, we cannot say. I'm not going to say that you don't have the right to a replica. Nevertheless, all citizens know this. And let's think about where we're going to start our next plenary week, and in general what date this is going to be, it's going to be September 18th. And if you mention the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, there is an imperative rule that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by September 15 a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. That is, the law under which the whole country will live, Ukrainian citizens will receive salaries, budget workers are teachers, doctors, social workers, pensioners will receive pensions, and in general Ukrainian citizens will plan their lives in a way that is very difficult to call a decent life today. What's going on? There are the main indicators that are put into the budget. The main one is the minimum of living. And what do we have with him? Here I took a look at the cost of living, a minimum that has been established by the State Budget Act since 2000. And just to be very easy to count, I converted that money unit that was more or less stable at the time, that's the dollar of the United States of America. So in 2000, we started off with a living minimum of 51 dollars per person. And then by 2014, the living minimum had risen to 150 dollars, and after the 14th year and the corresponding events, we have what we have today. The living minimum is $60. Against this background, it would seem that in order to see how people live, they would also have counted in a stable unit of money retail and family expenses for which people would spend their money. If the food was 30 percent before that, the utility was about 20 percent. We now have utility services -- 60 percent, food -- 40. And people don't have enough money at all, because I'm still putting this and the medicine in the picture. So we need to demand two things from the government. The first is to raise the minimum of living. The minimum is 2.5 times the decrease.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u138	Please finish 30 seconds. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u139	And what you're asking today about the price of residential services and especially the gas that uses one structure is NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, is absolutely true. Because if you take the price of gas and the tariff on gas that people pay, 90 percent is the price that goes directly to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and only 10 percent is going to transport gas. That's why we support it. Let's protect people and let's give this power a fight that works completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u140	Next performance. People's deputy Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u141	Andri Lozov, Radical Party, Chernigu, is the city where the coming leader of the strong Ukraine, Oleg Lazko, was born. Thus, when the golden - headed temples were erected in Chernigov, there was, as is known, a swamp in the territory of present - day Moscow. When in my home country, the Ostrov Academy provided the highest European example, only children of fighters were taught in Moscow, and they were taught geography in Cosma Indoplater, who claimed that the Earth was a rectangle and then a failure, and they all fell. By the time the Ukrainians were able to cook hundreds of varieties of bordello, even in the royal chambers, they cooked rotten meat and flies. But we see that such a neighbor, the misfortune of the mother we have, will never be met with our independence, with the right of Ukrainians to be masters on their land, which is basic to our patriotic, "iron" team of the Radical Party. Today is the 23rd war, think about the 23rd Moscow-led nation against Ukraine. And this war isn't just on the front, it's better than the best. It's an economic war, it's a diplomatic war, it's an information war and it's a cultural war. And today, despite Ukraine's fierce opposition, it's actually at the limit of what the Ukrainians have been fighting for over 300 years for -- the canonic autocephaly. And our team, unlike, I'm sorry, has been fighting for Ukrainians' right to the Ukrainian Church since the first day of their existence. Today, understanding its imminent defeat, Moscow is simply robbing Ukraine. And we demand that the law enforcement agencies ensure that illegal exports, which are already happening today, are prevented by historical and cultural values. They want to steal our history, they want to steal our property, it's hundreds of millions of dollars, and it's more like billions of dollars, it's icons, it's Scythian gold, it's priceless relics that are already being exported from the Kiev-Pecher Lavre. The Sveti-Uspenedic Saint-Gory laurel. Today neither the Ukrainian Security Service nor the Ministry of Culture have taken any action to stop this ungodly export of our Ukrainian values. Moreover, the Ministry of Culture, under the protection of Deputy Minister Tamara Mazur, who is clearly giving such commands, receiving money from Moscow, is doing absolutely nothing, allowing the actual laurel to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u142	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u143	Alexander Rudnik was recently appointed head of the Kyewovo-Pecherska lavra State Reserve, without a professional education, who gave the team (and this is documented), and commanded the employees to mount an exhibition on the territory of the Ukrainian laurel, where there were photographs with the president of the occupying state. Moreover, I appealed to the Russian Church to create a commission that would allow for construction. Think about it, they want to build the territories of the sacred Ukrainian Kyewovo-Pecher laurel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Please welcome Mrs. Kocheljeva’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u145	Alona Kocheljev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear Ukrainian people! Traveling through the regions of Ukraine with the leader of the Radical Party leader Oleg Lášk, talking to people, the main question that concerns: how can you survive on minimum wages and pensions? With even greater fear, people await the start of the heating season. I would like to remind you that housing subsidies have been automatically recalculated before. Officials claimed they were doing everything for people, and it was enough just to file a statement and a statement of income to the relevant body, and citizens who received subsidies in previous years will receive it automatically this year. But inconsistent actions by governments illustrate real social policies or rather their absolute absence. After Naftogazu's leadership has paid off billions of prizes, the Cabinet of Ministers ceases to marvel at Ukrainians and solves its budget policy deficits at the expense of citizens. Having chosen the easiest route to reduce the number of recipients of subsidies, Kabin subtly changed the order of the grant in May of this year. According to the Decree, 329 subsidies are not available from now on: owners of houses over 200 meters [200 m], apartments over 120 square feet [120 m], informal workers and employees, and owners of cars purchased over the past five years. The grant is also deprived of those whom the State considers to be debtor of a utility for payment of only 340 dollars. For example. In my hometown of Kharkishte, in 2018, only 169 families received subsidies. 169 000 families, twice as many as in 2017. Worst of all, thousands of pensioners who receive a minimum pension are automatically included in the list of debtors. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska repeatedly warned the government of the likelihood of developing such negative scenarios for Ukrainians, since debts are often due to the fact that the family simply has no means of living, even receiving a subsidy, because someone has lost his job and spent money on drugs and another negative life. The government is not interested in the reason for the creation of debt. I didn't pay you, you got suspended. This leads people to an absurd situation in which couples who have lived together for decades have now begun to divorce or simply remove their children from their own homes. My colleagues from the Radical Party faction led by leader Oleg Lášk are asking the government to correct this situation, radically raise social standards and change economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u146	Please welcome Mrs. Olga the Mantis. Mrs. Olya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine! In Ukraine today, there is a calm, rotten, cynical, medical genocide. People die because there are no cures in hospitals. In the eleven areas of Ukraine, there is already a debt of hundreds of millions of dollars on wages for the medics who are being released because they simply have no way of living in Ukraine. The supply of drugs as a result of a criminal act signed by the Prime Minister takes place in Ukraine 18 months after the 100 per cent prepayment. Think of the 6 billion funds that we spent with you last year to save lives and people’s health, more than 50 percent of last year’s expenditures are in the region today. Maybe let's get the 7th grade children's manuals on the 8th and 8th grade on the 9th. How can I live this year? This year’s supply did not begin at all. Under the Ministry of Health, the third week of tents is home to relatives of those who are ill. At the same time, funds for the treatment of these people are found in accounts in Belarus and in accounts in the Ministry of Health, which is not even available for communication with people. Why? Because they're reforming. But these reforms are not for people. These reforms for papers and international reports, which are now convenient for the close of a hospital in Ukraine, which is now convenient for fewer doctors in Ukraine today, who are likely to benefit from fewer Ukrainians. Every year, we're less than 200,000. In five years, we're down by a million. There is nothing more valuable in Ukraine than the preservation of human potential. And for that, the Cabinet of Ministers did nothing. And the personal responsibility for medical genocide lies with the Prime Minister. And I demand at this rostrum of the report of the Acting Minister of Health, in the rostrum, before a parliament that has not taken place throughout the last cadence. I demand from this rostrum the nomination of the Minister of Health, finally to the parliamentary vote. How can we vote on the budget, which is based on a deficit where the need for cancer patients is covered by 30 percent, we have voted with you in court on the law "money goes to the patient." But without a second wing, without the Law on general health insurance, reform will not take place. And I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers in the towers to stop blocking the passing of this law for Parliament's consideration. You and I need to restore people's trust, people need to know that they shouldn't stand, the mother of the cancer child, under Minsvrat with the portrait of her child with tears in his eyes and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u148	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u149	And spend the night under the walls of Minhvy. Officials have to be human, they have to be concerned about the needs of people, then people will trust them. That is why I demand a report of the minister's duty to Parliament, a nomination of the minister to vote on Parliament. If you support her, maybe it'll be a good thing, then someone will take it and she'll be criminally responsible for all the crimes that are currently taking place. I demand the restoration of the bone marrow transplant center OHMATDIT, not the withdrawal of billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u150	Please give the next speech, Commissioner Bereza. Please, Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u151	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Good afternoon, colleagues! This week, I passed Bill 9031, which amends the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. What is the point? This is because sometimes we have this situation where the head of KMDA is the wrong person chosen by the mayor of Kiev. It's a legal colony that I'm trying to fix right now. Because at times it may be that the mayor of Kiev will be the person who wants to choose the Chiyans, not the one he wants to see in Kiev. That's why we need to do everything we can to make sure that the local communities that express their position and choose their mayor have the opportunity to see its ruling city, and now we have a situation where all the powers are exclusively the heads of the KMDA. Mer Kiev, unfortunately, has little to do if he is not the head of the Kiev City Administration. So to make it right, I passed this bill. I hope that the Chinese will get in the future, if the hall votes for it, a measure that will always be the head of the Kiev City Administration and will be able to manage both the funds and all the possibilities it will have. But I also want to make one more point. Three years ago, this room voted in favour of the new Local Elections Act. Not many people know that this law is a piece of Russian law that was elected to the federal meeting of St. Petersburg. So it happened that the Russians looked at this bill, they made it as a law, they used it, they got rid of it because they realized it wasn't there, but we're still using it. Unfortunately, this has led to the fact that in some areas there are 2-3 deputies from one district or another, and in some areas there is no one at all. This needs to be fixed. Because if we want every district in the local government to continue to be represented, it needs to be corrected. I realize that now is not the time, everyone lives in presidential elections, everyone lives in parliamentary elections, but we have to live in the interests of the country and the citizens. And within these interests, it is necessary to choose the authority that represents the interests of citizens. To that end, a new law on the choice of local authority is needed. And so I urge those deputies who are now, and the citizens of Ukraine, to make such a law appear in the Supreme Council, and the Council has voted for it, because what it has registered still means nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u152	Thank you. And, please, I would like to take the floor with the National Deputy Korchik. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just got lost in the paperwork. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u153	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! This sessional Sunday was extremely effective, and we adopted 29 pieces of legislation. This shows that the Supreme Council is a stable organ of authority that works. But in this agenda, we didn't see any of the infrastructure-related bills, and more specifically, there was one that was placed on the agenda on Thursday night and had no chance of going through and considering. Every day during our colleagues' briefings and today even during "hours of questions to the government," everyone talks about the bad condition of Ukrainian roads, the lack of railway cars, the safety of our citizens' transports and other infrastructure-related problems. And we've got the daily Dangerous Goods Act, the Railway Act, the Inland Waterways Act, on controlling overloaded cars that crash our Ukrainian roads and this particular period of harvesting and grain harvesting. In the days of Kabminu Arsenija Yatsenyuk, an unprecedented cost of repairs and construction of Ukrainian roads began to be allocated. And today's government continues this work, it's building roads, it's working on other infrastructure projects, including the safety of road users, which is also emphasized by the head of our faction, Maxim Burbak. But we can spend any money on repairing our roads, but if we don't keep what we have, we will never have the quality of European highways. So I ask the leadership of the Supreme Council not to forget about infrastructure, to put such bills into the agenda so that we can solve infrastructure problems. And let's not forget that developed infrastructure is a guarantee of Ukraine's economic development, which is in turn the welfare of every citizen, every Ukrainian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u154	Thank you. And, please, the People's Deputy of Aresonkov is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u155	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! I turn once again to an association of the Chernobyl People's Deputies with a topic that is important to millions of citizens who live in areas that are affected by an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. And I want to remind you that this week, there were once again protests by representatives of public organizations that required two practical implementations of two issues. First. To be brought to the session room by those bills that have long been worked on. This is about 4,442 from the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, BPP and other representatives, and a number of other bills dealing with the establishment of a decent monetary reward, a pension fund for the airlifters at the Chernobyl atomic station. Laws have been prepared, and they must certainly be considered and decided upon. But there was another question. You know, there was a meeting of the Constitutional Court, which found it illegal to vote in the 14th year of the law, which suspended a number of benefits and social guarantees for the Chernobylites. So today it's a serious task for the government to rebuild and pay off, because it certainly needs a lot of financial spending. But most of all, it's not even that. I would like to remind you that on June 6, this year, a decree was adopted by the President of Ukraine, one of the points of which the Ukrainian government was obliged by the end of this year to adopt a new national programme which should include the whole set of measures to address serious, long-standing issues of social security for citizens who have the status of victims of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. So, as of today, no one has even prepared this program, as far as I can tell. We had a conversation with Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenko. Today, we have serious contacts with the Minister of Social Policy, Reva, and his deputies, but unfortunately, only at the level of conversation. So today I urge the Ukrainian government to fulfill their obligations to the citizens they have. We have to finally accept the complex program that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u156	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u157	Which should take into account the complex set of issues that have really accumulated over the years, but again, it is our debt and our commitment to those citizens who risked their health and to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igor. Colleagues, I've been working for 15 minutes. We've had our experts leave us. I hope they won't be remote. Ah, are there any experts on the Rules? Do you mind if I continue my session for 15 minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u159	Well, we just have everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u160	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I want to bring to your attention the true figures that are official. Yesterday during the cabinet meeting yesterday, we informed the Prime Minister that international purchases have some problems. They have led to the fact that a number of medicines were not put in 2017 and 2016, but in 2018 they are not allowed to talk. Then there's the information from the plane that once again flew across the border. Minister Suprun, that the information provided by the Health Committee is false. So I want to read you the data that's on the official website of the Ministry of Health that they have and what they don't have. The year 2017: Think about it, it's people who have survived, and there's someone in the heavens somewhere. And supply in the region is zero, zero percent. It's on AIDS, it's on blood donation, it's on paediatric dialysis, it's on adult neurology, it's on cardiovascular diseases, it's on the program -- 5 percent, it's on immunoprotection -- 7 percent, it's on the zero, it's on the oncogematology and oncology -- zero, it's on the screen for newborns -- zero, it's on tuberculosis -- zero. I'm bringing it to the so-called. Minister, let him look at his official website before he accuses anyone of being fairies. And the famous British Royal Agency, with which the Crown Agents have consistently made deals, has over 29 percent over the last year. And in 2016, we have half the need for replacement therapy for 48 percent, endothelial therapy for 50 percent, and a whole range of positions for 70 to 80 percent. Where more is purchased and they are needed? That's what the Ministry does. By the way, endothelials. We bought cheaper, really, really. Look at the Chinese ones. Why was there a time when German and Swiss were purchased, and there were no complaints, and now they bought Swiss, and ask what would be the response of the people in a year or two. Why is such planning taking place? And it's because non-professional people come to power. Look, in two years of being a Suprun at work, they keep going abroad. What's going on? Studying experience, getting to know each other. Have you come to the Ministry of Health to learn and gain experience or have you come to reform? I'm talking to Vladimir Borisovich Suprun. Oh, I'm sorry, Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, you have full responsibility for this person and for the actions of the Ministry of Health. These are the bumps you put on your feet. Don't let her go, she'll do you a lot of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u161	Please give the following address, People’s Derevyanco. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u162	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, have actually begun a presidential campaign. We see all over the country hanging boards of completely different candidates. And when we look at the agenda proposed by the Supreme Council, which has only just opened up, we see that there is no wish in most people to adopt the President of Ukraine Act, how its activity should be regulated, in which case it should retire through the impeachment procedure provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, but not regulated at the same time. Including, we don't see any bills on temporary investigation committees. We don't see a bill that I registered with the President of Ukraine (7,428 registration numbers). We also see that for 2.5 years, we actually have a relationship between MPs from WFP and perhaps Parliament's leadership on unlocking the punishment of criminals who steal from the Ukrainian army. This is the 1973 Bill, which is blocked, sorry, which is now blocked by the possibility of amending the Criminal Code to punish those who are profiting and stealing from the Ukrainian army. In general, we don't see economic policies in government or in most of the time today. We see that they are going to continue to maintain this system, such an oligarchic, monopolistic system, to raise huge costs from the subsidy budget and talk about raising tariffs on gas, on electricity instead of creating market conditions for competition. Why, in a few years, when we do not have a foreign company in the gas market to enter and work, to increase production and to create competition? Why can't we talk today about introducing a simplified tax system that would be more effective than what exists now? What is used to curb the development of entrepreneurs, to harm entrepreneurs, and to block entrepreneurial activities? The Movement of New Forces has proposed a simplified system of taxation – a very clear 4 core taxes, which increase revenue by 4-5 years double the consolidated state budget (state budget, local budgets and all social funds). Also, "The Movement of New Forces" suggests legalizing all kinds of economic activity that are now virtually banned, and everything works -- both amber production and circulation, and everything else. We also demand that such a phenomenon as raiding cease in Ukraine. We're talking about land today, about property, about entire property complexes that are being built all over Ukraine and nothing is happening. We think that this system doesn't just need to be duped or something, you know, slightly reformed. It needs to be held in the highest order. That's what we have to do to make new choices so that Ukraine gets other options. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u163	The next speech is the People's Deputy of Barna. Please, Mr. Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u164	Praise Jesus Christ, Ukrainian people! Obviously, there are many points to be considered first of all in the protection of sovereignty, integrity, the independence of our nation. And first of all, the question of the unity of the authorities, the unity of the MPs in this direction is more relevant than ever. And if we're talking about national authority, then we should all unite around a bill on the major election system, where power will be formed, really, from the people, not from the oligaric, party, or other clans. If we're talking about developing a Ukrainian village, if we're talking about creating jobs in the countryside, we need to unite with regard to the bill and the rights of my people, our faction, in particular regarding the non-sales of Ukrainian land, the limitation of agricultural land by enterprises, and the need for comprehensive agricultural development and the creation of jobs in the countryside. And get the agroholdings out of there. If we want to talk about the corresponding development of resilience, then, indeed, we need to be united here as to the development of the resilience of the Ukraine’s Armed Forces itself. And on that day, I am pleased to greet my brothers in arms, including our spies, with this great professional festival to give them strength, health and peace, but peace must be done only through victory by destroying the enemy in their own Kremlin logo. And I was particularly contacted by the electorates of my district about the inappropriate link between the railway and Kiev, Zalishticki, Czartkow district in particular. In fact, once there were three trains, there was now only one and not enough tickets as it is a transit train. So obviously, you need to pay attention to the Crucifixions to prevent the destruction or closure of the Czartkowski depot, which provides freight transport, thus heating up the roadways from being destroyed. And that's where we have to set a course. At the same time, I would like to turn to fellow MPs, to remember my duty to the people and to the state in their defense, not to speak up or to defend the interests of third parties, especially those on the side, as it were, agents of external influence. And finally, I want to invite all my fellow MPs, the entire Ukrainian people who are interested in the folklore of Ukraine, to the All-Ukrainian Festival "Borschivska embroidery", which will be held this Saturday and Sunday in Borschev, Ternopolska. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u165	The next speech is the People's Deputy Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u166	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear citizens, President Peter Poroshenko suddenly saw. Yesterday, the National Security and Defence Council supported the President's proposal not to continue the Treaty of Friendship with Russia for the next 10 years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should send a corresponding note to Russia to finally stop this agreement, which, according to Dustenka, has long been an anachronism. And this realization, think about it, came about during the fifth year of the war. More recently, in April of this year, the President stated that he would only propose to the Supreme Council to terminate the individual provisions of the treaty, while stressing that it was impossible to cancel the entire treaty. So he finally realized the wrongness of his position. At the same time, the termination of such a treaty is a matter of responsibility, which must be done in full compliance with Ukraine's international law and legislation, so that no one in the world, such as Russia or the pro-Russian Fifth Column in Ukraine, can question that fact. In order to eliminate the strategic partnership with Russia in an unquestionably legal way once and for all, the treaty must be denounced by the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that the legislative initiative of the Treaty of Friendship with Russia was introduced by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljasko, to Parliament on 16 March 2014, on the day of the illegal Putin pseudoferendum in Crimea. But in December 2014, when the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs was considering denunciation of the treaty through Russian aggression, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which under the Constitution was subordinated to the President, strongly opposed. We have recently published copies of those disgraceful letters from the Ministry of Internal Affairs because the archives are not burning. President Dustenko and the unqualified hypocrites at the head of the MCS are unable to see a few steps ahead and act on the forerunner. All the time, they were just following the events, causing Ukraine to have very weak positions in the international arena, mostly as a demeanor. So why did President Prašenko see through now? Looks like it's just because there's an election on the nose. A true statesman at the head of the country responds to the challenges of history, makes strategic decisions, and acts in a dynamic and timely manner in the interests of his people. A political conjuncturer looks forward to a convenient opportunity and turns strategic decisions into political solutions in the interests of fighting for personal power, particularly before the elections. Ukraine has long needed government officials capable of pursuing strong and effective internal and external policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u167	Please welcome National Deputy Lechchenko Sergius and later. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u168	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! As a deputy, I often communicate with voters in Kiev and conduct receptions, and in recent weeks, I have been approached repeatedly, including on illegal activities, particularly in the attempt of another Kiowi land derbyan. In particular, it is a matter of trying to allow the walls to be left in front of the National Botanical Garden. Right in front of this pearl, which is to be preserved in Ukraine, not to be a front for the mob's derby. And this is happening, unfortunately, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, where this collective body of irresponsibility is operating -- a scientific methodological council that allows for a multi-story barrier across our historic capital. And just because I came to this meeting as a deputy, as well as a self-help representative in Kievrada, we were able to stop this prank. And then you saw how then you tried to count the votes for half an hour and couldn't put it down. They were 5 out of 11, and they were still trying to make that decision by giving permission to do so. And so today, unfortunately, I haven't had the opportunity to ask the minister a question of culture, but I will do it through the parliamentary rostrum. Mr. Nietschuk, please stop this prank that's happening in your walls, and it's happening in the hands of your deputy Mrs. Mazur. Either you are idle simply because you are incompetent, or you are an accomplice in these mafia efforts to clean up the gold country of Kyiv. In addition, we receive a request from the inhabitants of the Glossiev district that the Ukrainian Security Service, as you know, in the days of Yanukovitch, passed it over to the fenced territory of the military in the vicinity of the Glossiev National Park, another natural pearl within our city, Kiev. And after we intervened in the defense of activists, they went to court, they canceled at the first instance this decision, which for many years, I repeat, was part of this robbery plan. But we have a question, and on behalf of the activists, I want to ask it. What payments did the U.S.S.S.A. pay for this land run into the Bolosian Park? Are they going to build something else there, or are they going to transfer it to the needs of the city community, or to the needs of the national park, or is it going to be the location of some infrastructure of the Ukrainian Security Service? We ask for answers to these questions, which were addressed to Mr. Gretzak's B.B.U. Manager, but unfortunately we have not received any answers. And the third moment that I want to talk about. Similarly to the inhabitants of the Pecher district, these are the intersections of Boychuk Streets, the former Kiquidze along with Bastionna Street, today even a request was read on this subject. There is an illegal construction, without any documents, from this issue I and the activists personally attended Mr. Klick's reception two months ago. There's no interference, the second floor of the business center has already started in front of residential buildings in an area that's not suited for this, and without any documents at all. I demand an intervention from the mayor of Kiev, Mr. Klitschka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u169	Please give the last speech today, National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! I want to warn you that the presidential election that will take place in March 2019 is not just the election of the new president, it's the election of our future state and, above all, our country, which will belong to the Ukrainian land. Because today international glytes, transnational corporations, are doing everything they can to ensure that Ukrainian peasants are poor, that Ukrainian farmers do not have the money to trade raw materials instead of trade finished products, while demanding a land market. Who will benefit from this land market? The one who will rule the State will depend on who will be the master of the earth. If transnational corporations set up their own puppets that are still in existence and run the country, that means they're going to pass the Land Market Act in this Parliament, which is going to take away the land from the Ukrainians. Because neither farmers nor singles nor even former collogists have the opportunity to buy land. Transnational corporations will bring in money suitcases, dollars that are printed all day long. They have the ability to take these loans to the dollar under zero percent of the year's, and they're going to buy up the whole Ukrainian land. Ukrainian farmer, Ukrainian peasant, ask him what interest he takes in the bank: 20-30 percent at best. Who's going to give him the interest? And that means he won't have the money to buy land, even though the authorities tell us that the land market is the development of the village, it's the development, it's the enrichment of agriculture and so on. It's a lie, it's a lie that pursues one goal -- to take away the land from people like in the '90s, when they took away the industry! And five families or ten became the owners of the country’s major funds, and millions of Ukrainians received empty papers — vouchers on which no one received any help. Therefore, the key – the master of the Ukrainian land must be a peasant. And the presidential election is the choice of who will be the host of the earth. I'm offering our team. First. Changes to the Constitution to write that agriculture is the basis of the agricultural system of Ukraine, and that means that no authority, whatever it is, can collect thousands and thousands of hectares of land banks, such as in Herson or Kirovograd, the governors of hundreds of thousands of hectares of land, have their firms. So instead of taking care of people's well-being, they're gathering into people, in different corrupt ways, the land, and then selling it and making billions. Therefore, the key is the change to the Constitution, which is based on agricultural farming. And the second, a very important requirement is to return to a specific tax for farmers. Five billion dollars is available in this year’s budget to support farmers, agriculture, and agricultural engineering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u171	Yeah, yeah, it's been six minutes. Please continue for another three minutes, because there were two deputies who signed up together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u172	The five billion in the budget is budgeted for the kind of support of agriculture and farmers. I traveled by summer, met hundreds of farmers all over the country from east to west. I couldn't find any farmers who would tell me that he had received State support. I asked each one of them: Do you have subsidies for livestock, for the head of a large cattle? Does the state compensate you for part of the value when you built a cow? Are you compensated by the state for part of the agricultural technology you buy? No man told me that they had received support. Why? Because in manual mode, the use of these funds has been made. Because in order to get State support, you need not only to keep the fat as before but a suitcase of money to give you that grant. That's why me and my team, we're asking the government to pay back VAT to farmers, the least corrupt form of government support when a farmer sells goods, 20 percent of VAT is on his personal account, and they use that money for development. And you don't have to go to the Kiev or the district centers, you don't have to bribe, you don't have to ask officials to hear you. Everything has to be paid automatically. The fewer drones, the fewer officials, the fewer Darmoids to carry, the more Ukrainian tractors, combines, cows, and jobs will be in the village. My policy is to return the cow to the village, return the job to the village, return to the village. Because even today, the mail is closed in the villages. It was told that there was no money, that the school was closed, that the schools were optimized, then they reached the FAPs, and then they arrived at kindergartens today. I have a question for the authorities who run this policy that you will leave to the rural people, except for the banter in the window? Because today's gas prices, which offer 13,000 dollars for a thousand cubes, who can pay these prices? Prior to each election, gas was set on fire in the village and was thought to have been brought into the village. Today, people are transferred to wood, to low - feed, because they have restricted the ability to collect subsidies, and people are shutting down the gas. What kind of civilization do you lead society today -- I have a question to President Prashenko, to power, to government, to parliamentary majority? Are you telling us about the journey to Europe? Who Needs God in Europe? We have long been in Europe, but Europe has been built in Ukraine. Restoration of the economy, overcoming poverty, new jobs, increasing the welfare of Ukrainians, life expectancy, treatment of people in their home country, and implementation for young people not to go abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-07-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working on committees, factions, commissions. And I very much ask that all colleagues be very actively involved in the key work for us on the committees where the bills are being drafted and the first, second reading is being read. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, September 18, and will begin, as usual, at 10 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
