ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u1	Please come into the hall, colleagues. Some kind of misunderstanding. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:03:37]] 337 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we, Ukrainians, celebrate a great light festival — the Divine Revelation, the Day of the Lord's Baptism or, they say, the Vodhrest. Dear Ukrainians, welcome to the feast. May the Jordanian water bring cleansing, strength, and health to all. Christ Baptizes!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u2	That's right. Welcome to all the Ukrainians, and welcome to the great light festival. And, colleagues, the logic of today. First of all, I want to remind you of some innovation in the "hour of questions to the government." So now we're going to have representatives of the government, not 15 minutes, but 10 minutes, then the question from factions and groups, it takes 25 minutes, and then the MPs 15 minutes. Thus, we guarantee that each faction and group will have a guaranteed question to the government. It's our joint decision, and I think that's exactly what this decision will all support. Secured rights and factions, guaranteed rights and MPs. It is the rule of law that must be guaranteed the rights of both deputies and factions, and so it will be guaranteed that right. Next thing. Today we must have, as prescribed by the Rules, an hour of questions to the government, then 30 minutes of reading requests and hour of speeches. It's suggested that we close the session at 1:00. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we had a discussion. There are factions that insist on performances. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, you better do the right thing. Better to do what is right, by law, then there will be no questions. I counted the hour, the half hour, the hour of the performances, and we'll be there by the first hour to get everyone out. And, colleagues, at the first hour of closing the session. And I invite everyone to the hall so that at 1:00 we can close the session together, and the government will be present. And by the way, I'd like to welcome the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Welcome to our government. And I want to announce the beginning of an hour of questions to the government. And I would like to remind you that today, from the Cabinet of Ministers, there will be an act of acting as Minister of Health of Ulysses Suprun (up to 10 minutes, Mrs. Ulyana), Minister of Culture of Ukraine EugenNishtuk (up to 10 minutes). And we're starting with Ulysses Suprun. Mrs. Ulyana, I'd like to invite you to the rostrum. In 10 minutes, your report. And then there will be questions, after the report by Eugena Nutschuk. Please, Mrs. Ulyana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Good afternoon! Dear national deputies, there is no cure for the bark; immunity from the disease creates vaccination. Unvaccinated children and adults are severely ill, and according to world statistics, 1 out of 900 sufferers die from complications. It's just vaccination that gives you immunity. In the United States, after the use of vaccines in 1963, measles were almost completely eliminated. Yesterday it became known that another death from the bark was a child who had not been vaccinated, the eighth death since the first outbreak, and this is the tragedy of our society, where people die from pre-vaccination diseases. I'm going to point out that out of over a million 300,000 vaccines in the last year, there's no fatality. During 2017, 4,000,782 cases of measles were registered in Ukraine, and in two weeks 2018, a thousand 285 adults and children were already ill. In 2018, the largest cases were reported in the region of Ivano-Frankiv – 275, Chernivetske – 274, Zakarpatski – 194, Odessky – 157, and 84 patients were registered in Kiev during this period. Why could such a situation happen in our country? Because in recent years in Ukraine, vaccination was below 50 percent. In 2017 we were able to change the situation. For the first time in years, 87.8 percent of children have been vaccinated with planned vaccinations. Since early 2017, the first cases of bark have been reported by our neighbors in Romania. What was done. By the beginning of the year, we had left 796 thousand 300 doses of vaccines and more than a million doses of vaccines had been imported into Ukraine during 2017. In February 2017, the conference "Crust and Redness Elimination in Ukraine: Challenges and Solutions" was held, with 300 participants from all regions of Ukraine and international experts. As a result of the conference, proposals have been prepared for new mechanisms for the epidemiation of the bark. In the summer, information began on the rapid increase in measles in the regions of Ivano-Frankiv, Ternopil and Odessa. In response to this situation, the MOH operational headquarters has been operating since August 2017 to respond to the crust situation in Ukraine. Adopted order No. 1082 of 11 September 2017 on measures to immunize the population against measles in Ukraine. In accordance with the command, additional immunization measures are analysed weekly to cover increased measures. Children from 1 to 9 years of age are selected according to the command. Special efforts are directed at those children who have not received measles vaccination according to the vaccination calendar. We regularly inform the Prime Minister of Ukraine, whose mission was to hold a meeting under the chairmanship of Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko on 22 August 2017. As a result, a joint letter was sent from the ILO and the Ministry of Education and Science, recommending that children who do not have vaccination against measles be excluded from the educational facilities of the three areas most affected, which is one way to prevent infection. In order to coordinate activities during this period, three meetings of our headquarters were held, three selector meetings with the regions, and in each area, there are designated responsible persons for taking action to overcome the outbreak. With the support of UNICEF, the Ministry conducted 24 training sessions in August-November 2017 in regions involving 1,000 185 health workers, 600 education students and 189 executives. 20 lectures were conducted by national experts for parents, 22 monitoring visits to regions to familiarize themselves with the situation on the ground, and a national vaccination conference was held in November 2017, with more than 200 participants. For each area, levels, planned and additional immunizations were defined as part of enhanced immunization. The Ministry and the Center for Public Health, together with UNICEF, launched an information campaign to inform the population about the need for vaccination. Every week more than 500,000 parents receive information about the dangers of bark and the benefits of vaccination through thematic communication in social networks over the last three months. More than 5 million parents received information from thematic posters distributed in all areas of Ukraine in medical facilities and kindergartens. According to recent sociological studies by UNICEF in 2017, 84 percent said they were doing vaccinations according to the vaccination calendar, while in 2014 it was less than 63 percent of parents, while 80 percent of parents with children by one year. 88 percent of children under one year of age are vaccinated. Together with the planned and pre-planned measles vaccination in 2017, 1 million 300,000 children were vaccinated from one year ago. After the outbreak of measles in Kiev, which was actively reported in the media, 11.5,000 children arrived in the capital in one week. At the beginning of the year, there were 516,000 doses of vaccines in health care facilities. Another million doses are expected in April, and another million in October. Once again, I want to emphasize the quality of vaccines: this is a Belgian vaccine that is overqualified by WHO. Updated vaccination levels will be known at the end of the month, as the MOH will inform the government, the Supreme Council, and the media during the weekly briefings that began last week. Scientific evidence suggests that if at least 95 percent of children and adults are vaccinated, the crust’s flashes may stop in a month or a month and a half. Now we know about the failure of vaccines in some areas: Kirovogradska, Ravenska, Žitomirska, Odessa, Ivano-Frankivska and the city of Kyiv, the Ministry is redistributing existing vaccines from other regions. The next batch of vaccines is due to arrive in Kiev. to Kiev in April 2018, this was ordered by more than a million doses. But in view of the growing demand, the Ministry and UNICEF partners and the manufacturer are taking steps to supply an additional party in shorter terms. Against the backdrop of the improvement in vaccination against measles, rubella, and parotits, the level of vaccination from other infections is even more alarming. In particular, on December 1, 2017, less than 50 percent of children under one year were vaccinated against polio. Against coughing, diphtheria, the tip is also less than 50 percent. BCG is slightly better by 75 percent and hepatitis B is 50 percent. The vaccine in the regions is, should we wait for outbreaks of other diseases to improve vaccination coverage? Today I would like to thank the Supreme Council for the opportunity to address this important issue. For the next step, we will need your help. First: to amend the laws of Ukraine that regulate vaccination and increase the responsibility for refusing vaccination, as has been done throughout the civilized world. Together with the government, we will make changes to legislation. The second is the adoption of a new national immunization programme prepared by the Ministry of Health. Because of the moratorium on new programs, we are not allowed to submit and no funding for the new program. Please support the new immunization program. And the last. Please, the people's deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u4	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u5	That's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u6	All right, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u7	Take part in our information campaigns and in your personal example show your attachment to vaccination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Ulyano. I invite Mr. Nietschuk, Minister of Culture, to speak now, who will have the same 10 minutes to perform. After that, both MPs and national deputies will be able to ask questions to present - day and other government members. Please, Mr. Nietschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u9	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, distinguished national electorate, distinguished members of the government, dear Ukrainian people! Welcome to the Hiccup! May the waters of the universe of the holy Jordan add to all of us strength, health, and the defilement of our earth and its fertility. I'm happy to be able to report more and more in front of you and the entire Ukrainian nard from this high rostrum, especially, to raise important cultural issues, to speak on topical issues. Today is one of the most tragic pages of our history. After all, this year we honor the memory of the victims of totalitarian hunger, the victims of the famine against the Ukrainian people. On Monday, under the joint chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Graysman and the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Igor Reinin, held a meeting of the Organising Committee for the Preparation and Conduct of Action in connection with the 85th anniversary of Holodomor, 1932-33, in Ukraine, which dealt with the importance and priority of the 85th year anniversary of Holodomor. Many presentations emphasized that the subject seemed to have moved on. And during the Dignity Revolution, one of the charges against the criminal regime of Yanukovich was to silence him in favor of the Russian tyranny of the concept of genocide itself. In November 2016, by decree of the President of Ukraine, Peter Dustenk, this topic was updated with regard to the proper observance of this memorable date for every Ukrainian. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, sometimes I feel that, as Genius director Les Kurbas said, "being at the heights of the spirit is not easy, not just at the level of a collective subconscious." Today, the government assumes the responsibility of asserting the truth, which means, to the world to declare, the 1932-33 famine in Ukraine was a genocide against the Ukrainian people and once again resisting Russian propaganda. It is a privilege for us to complete the construction of the National Museum, the Memorial of the Victims of Hunger, along with other important measures to perpetuate the most terrible of the victims of the tragedy of the Ukrainian people. The introduction of a second line of museums is a priority because it has been dead for 10 years. It's not just about the building. The modern museum is a new form of historical truth, no matter how bitter it may be. The idea of mistakes and negative experiences is the guarantee of a healthy society, the way to the future, not by maniacs, but by beatings, by permeable ways. It is necessary to say what psychological trauma the Ukrainian nation suffered because of the famine that human codes were broken, how fear developed in society, one of the most powerful means of captivity. It is necessary to reproduce the complete picture of the insidiousness of the Communist authorities and their manuals — national mancures — without currency or silence. So our plans are to create an exhibition, full of modern technology and future museum technology. Anyone who visits this museum, even on the Internet tours, will not be able to disrespect the bread crumbs. We'll stop seeing the moldy edges of the food on the asphalt. The incredible force of history, which was not even dreamed of by Shakespeare, will have an emotional impact on the future of the generation. This will be a universal, constantly active lesson in history and ethics, a lesson in national memory. The National Museum of the Holocaust Victims has to activate its efforts towards information work in the world. It will also help to interact with the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, which, together with the Ukrainian Institute of Books, will announce several competitions on grant programs for the production of translations and the publication of books in the languages of the world. The ministries of information policy and foreign affairs will assist in the distribution and promotion of these publications. I can't help but mention the initiative that has taken place and is taking place, as it were, from below, the national initiative, the name of a few of these initiatives. Schools in the Borodian district of Kyiv district record eyewitness accounts of the Holodomor. Semen Ostapovich Cupilka, born in 1918, native and resident of the village of Valyawa, in the region of Cherkas region, handed over the manuscript of the autobiographical unpublished novel "Holdovka". I have recently been associated with three witnesses of the Holocaust, Mikola Oneshchenk, Tamara Bedrenko and Zinovy Mael, and was impressed by the gruesome stories they have experienced, all of which should be recorded and preserved for the offspring. From the high court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I turn to our young people, activists, volunteers, go on ethnographic expeditions, look for those who are carriers of family memory who bear the memory of calamities, national songs, and nationalities, for these pages of nonmaterial culture are important to our offspring. Such expeditions can be carried out in higher education and educational institutions. Dear students, join the search. It is important that witnesses about the Holodora are gathered by workers at the Constantine National Museum and the National Museum of the Nikolai Region in Donetsk. But other science museums and the National Museum of the Holocaust Victims have to be more active in gathering memories of the victims of the tragedy, because there are very few of them left. I am confident that all these materials will be used in the new volumes of the National Memory Book, the need for a continuation of which is urgent. We do not yet have enough political will on the issue of the Day of Respect for the Victims of the Holocaust, the genocide. In the windows of Ukrainian families, candles of memory are lit on that day, people honor their family’s memory, feel the need to pray, make recommendations to the Ministry of Culture by means of celebrations, thematic exhibitions in theaters, programs, philharmonics, and at that time some television channels are broadcasting entertainment programs and humorous shows. It's unacceptable. This is a crime against the people and a new mancurtism. I am particularly concerned with the subject of organization and the holding of an international scientific conference, whose goal at world level is to raise the theme of Holodomor, genocide, involving leading historians, publicists, bloggers. I'm sure there will be no discussion in this forum, because new and new generations of intellectuals and social thinkers understand the truth about the events in Ukraine in the 1930s, neither silence nor distortion, because that threatens other peoples. Russia, which relives the memory of tyrants at the level of the leaders of the State, promotes the values of totalitarianism, introduces the censoring of words that have broken into Ukraine and actually embodys the politics of conquest, poses an increasing international danger. However, among our (in paws) "housewives" there are false demographics that, in the event of the false propaganda of a former "old brother", reduce the magnitude of the demographic disaster in the country. And that's why we approve of doing this international demographic expertise that's going to shock the entire civilized world. Not to mention the good word of American explorer James Mays, who, at the break of millenniums at the international level, raised the question of the recognition of the Holocaust by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. A monument will be installed in Kiev by Dr. Mays, a representative of the black people, a prominent American and a spirit Ukrainian. And it's not just the execution of the letter of the President's Order and the decree of the government, it's a sign of the great gratitude of the Ukrainians to their international lawyer. I especially want to thank the World Congress of Ukrainians for its powerful work in the international information field. Dear Diaspora, you are a powerful promoter of Ukraine in the world! You've cherished the historical truth about the genocide of the Ukrainian people for many years, and you've saved it, and today you're helping to recognize the parliaments of the countries of Holodomor in Ukraine from 1932 to 33 years of genocide. We are all witnesses to the takeoff of the Ukrainian cinematographer. Our country is energizing in the international festival elite. For us, cinema is a real medium and an expression of a national idea. At the organ committee that I told you about at the beginning of the speech, the Prime Minister of Ukraine took the initiative to create a new art film about the events in Ukraine in 1932-33, about the Netherlands. As culture minister, I'm anouncing a contest for a better script idea for a movie like this. The next step will be public pitching for the production of the film. I thank the Canadian cinematographers for the movie "The High Harvest", which was on the road last year, and the film "Olesuyanchuku" that created independence at the beginning. But we need to make even more of these movies with a new modern movie. I am sure that art, culture, and culture are one of the most important functions of their life — human protection, the promotion of humanism, and the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, you have adopted laws that allow you today to implement the most courageous projects in the field of national memory culture. And the theme of famine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u10	30 seconds to complete, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u11	And the theme of the Holocaust as the genocide of the Ukrainian people, the veneration of the victims of totalitarianism will find its powerful embodiment. Thanks to the Supreme Council Committee and all deputies for including 323 million dollars in the State budget in 18 for the creation of the second line of the National Museum of the Holocaust Victims. According to architects, projections and builders, planning for architectural projects and the construction of a second line of museums will take at least two years. So we need to work together to make the right decisions for 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Dear colleagues, I am now asking you to sign up for a question to the members of the government from the factions. Each faction is entitled to one question. Please describe to whom it will be addressed. Yes, first from factions, then from national MPs. It'll be another 15 minutes from the people's deputies. Please, from the People's Front question. People's Front, first question of yours. Dear Mr. Maxime, which one of you asks the question? Mr. Kodola, right? Please, Mr. Kodola. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's from factions. Now. Yes. Please, the Kodola People's Deputy asks a question from the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u13	Alexander Kodolah, 209 constituency, People's Front faction. The Honourable Stepan Ivanovich, the Cabinet of Ministers, by its Decree of December 27, 2017 at number 1045, brought the Republic of Latvia to the list of offshore countries along with Barbados, Aruba, Vanuatu and Guatemala. As the leader of a group of friendships with the Republic of Latvia, I now receive very many references from my Latvian colleagues, from entrepreneurs. And once again, Latvia is our reliable leader in the international arena in the European Union today, and it meets all the requirements of the European Union regarding the fight against money-laundering. Over the course of three years, our economic relationship has moved very significantly, creating new joint ventures that develop mutual economic relationships. At the same time, this is the decision that causes great concern. And clearly, in other countries, I think that's how I feel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. Mr. Danieluk will be in charge of the government. Please turn on the microphone, Daniluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. Yes, such a decision was made. And we've already had conversations with the minister, oh, I'm sorry, with the Ambassador of Estonia and Latvia, two countries. This is due to the fact that in two of these countries, Estonia has been in place for several years, and in Latvia since 1 January of this year, a mechanism for taxing income on the resulting capital has been in place. Which means that profit is not taxed until it's distributed as dividends, for example. So we have the legal requirements that the income tax is at zero. So there's some conflict with the law, and that's why it's just an execution of our law. This is not a matter of dealing with friendly nations, and we will certainly work to solve this problem. Especially as you know that we are looking at the launch of the appropriate tax model next year. So now the Ministry of Finance will be looking for ways to solve this problem, and we are in contact with both the embassies and the ministries of finance of these two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u16	Please give me one more minute to Mr. Kubi's First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u17	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! With Christmas Eve. Christ Gets Baptized! First of all, I want to thank you for the quality of the work you did yesterday, and I have accelerated many reforms towards privatization, which concerns both the Ministry of Economics and the government as a whole, and the task of implementing the government programme that Prime Minister VladimirGroysman spoke about yesterday. As to the question asked. The Baltic countries are members of the European Union. We take it as a parliamentary request, and within 10 days, the national MP and the faction will be given a clear answer. There are principles of financial monitoring, financial reporting and open financial activity. And Alexander Daniluk, who has now given a clear answer, is doing the job, first, at the embassy level, and second, between the government of the country's finances and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. In 10 days, you'll get a real answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u18	Please ask the self-help faction Egor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u19	I don't see the Prime Minister, so I'm going to ask the whole government a question. As you know, yesterday we passed a law that declared occupied Russia Lugansk, Donetsk and another part of Donbas. I'd like to ask the government, when are you going to start limiting the occupation trade? It's scary to admit, but in the last year's trade in Ukraine with the Russian Federation, worse than that, Ukraine's imports of goods and services from the Russian Federation have grown by more than a third. Once again, it's about the invader, now officially recognized in Ukrainian legislation. When will the government stop allowing businesses, organizations, and others to give the power of the enemy for new attacks on our earth and our people?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u20	Please, Mr. Kubi, you have a microphone, First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u21	Dear Mr. People's Deputy! First of all, I want to thank the people's deputies for adopting the law yesterday. This is the great work that was done jointly by the President, the government, the Supreme Council, the public debate. The very number of votes that have been given in favour speaks to the correctness of the organization of the process and the adoption of the law. This law primarily answered many of the questions that populists tried to throw into society. Not only should we love Ukraine with words but we should love the citizens of Ukraine. And what we're talking about today is that trade, which is today in Ukraine, answers: first, in the current legislation, second, in the integrity of Ukraine, and third, we're talking about citizens who live in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u22	Please, next question from the Radical Party faction, Oleg Lachka. I understand he'll ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear government officials, here are the lines from Alexia Priest's letter from Mirgorod in Poltavščina. " Unemployment, the smallest wages in Europe, low purchasing power, life on the verge of survival, high mortality and low birth rates. This is a disturbing reality. And it's because the authorities only care about the people in words and in action they only care about themselves." This is what Nadia Panchenko of the Tomak district of Dnipropetrov region writes: "In our country, talk about justice and the rule of law so early, because the law is on the side of someone who has money." I have a question to ask you, dear government officials, what will you tell these people and millions of Ukrainians how to work in their country? How can they feed their children? Where do they make money? Will they have a future with your politics, a future, and a life worth living? I'm expecting an answer from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u24	Please turn on the microphone for First Vice Prime Minister Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u25	Dear Leže Valeriovich, that's really a question you're asking right. But I want to say that the government, the Parliament, the President of Ukraine over the past three and a half years have taken as many steps as possible together with Parliament on the issue as they have raised. The other one. Macrostabilization and economic growth, of which the Ukrainian government has clearly not only declared but has also raised awareness and informed Parliament, are based on specific figures. And when we talk about the minimum wage, we're talking about the salary of 3 000 753. A year ago we were talking about the salary of 1,600. And thanks to both your efforts and your vote, we've had a corresponding effect. The economic growth recorded in 2017 continues to be a clear epoch of the government's real steps towards implementing those budget targets for 2018. Social standards are growing to a degree today, as the economy actually grows. Social assistance costs are $126.8 billion. The budget also provides funding for pensions. At the same time, your proposal, the proposals of other factions are based on the raise of the minimum wage in 2018, as spoke of by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, where we discussed on the National Security and Defence Council and where we discussed at the economic meeting of the Committee of Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was discussed repeatedly in the speech by Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u26	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word for the question is given to Sparky. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u27	Please. Spark, Opposition Block. First of all, let me welcome all Ukrainian citizens to Vodhresh. The questions are as follows. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, please tell me, when you plan to do so, is the government planning to make a report, which is stipulated by law, to the government before Parliament? Second question. Do you think that Mrs. Suprun, since she has been in charge for more than three months, can hold the position of minister of health? And isn't that breaking the State Service Act? And the third question. All are aware of the situation in the field of education in our country when the wagons are actually closed until spring in connection with the lack of heating costs. And please tell me, this is a question for representatives of the Ministry of Education -- what is the situation in the field of vocational and technical education that has actually been destroyed by the government for the last two years? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u28	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, will report to the Supreme Council when he is included by 226 votes in the agenda of the Supreme Council. The other one. I want to thank all the members of the Supreme Council for the joint work we did in 2017, where economic growth is clearly declared, where radical reforms are clearly adopted, which have a clear development strategy for education, medicine, pensions. In terms of responsibilities, these personnel policy issues are also a joint work of Parliament, the government and the President, and not only in this position that you have told. Third. Today, the Minister of Health, in charge of Mrs. Ulyana Suprun, clearly informed me about a situation that was asked about by several dozen deputies yesterday as a person to be in a government meeting. About the education you asked. You know, this question is very relevant, a question that's being discussed not once at a working group meeting, where people's deputies are also taking part, and the Ministry of Education is taking part, which is what Mr. Covetian is going to answer. It lies in the plane of today's real situation of providing and reforming the energy efficiency of higher education facilities. At the same time, each college takes its own decision and the educational program determined by the scientific board of a higher educational institution. And Mr. Kovtunec for one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no higher educational institution has stopped its teaching process. According to the Higher Education Act, the new educational process is approved by the scientific board of the educational institution, including the curriculum. This graph might be different, and our higher education institutions are moving away from the practice where vacations last more than two months, so they're planning this process in a way that makes the best use of resources, but the problem of energy efficiency is, we're solving it. Thank you to the National Deputies for ratifying the Agreement with the European Investment Bank, 160 million euros of credit will be directed towards improving energy efficiency. The system of occupational education works successfully, it works successfully, it implements both regional and government procurement, and we don't have any problems in this system right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u31	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. Indeed, dear colleagues, our country is rich in resources, rich in drama, but we see it permeated by corruption. And I want to address my question, because there is no Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. It's about the famous history of the town of Truscavetsa and its history in good mineral waters, such as Oil. Tell me, please, I understand that in its own time, it was handed over to this company, which ends up in offshore Cypriot zones, the entire mineral base. Please tell me, can we watch today how these same woe-lords are prevented from being subjected to a national geological test? Can we observe 80 percent of the property being transferred or stolen? I'm asking you, Stepan Ivanovich, give the government authority to allow the state geological service to be tested with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And that's how they're going to put this poor master in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u32	I want to thank you for asking. I, as First Vice Prime Minister and by order of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, am familiar with the facts that you have just heard. First. We take it that way, and I take it that's an oral request from the People's Deputies for executions. The other one. This request under applicable legislation will be carried out. I ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to respond now to your public position regarding the organization and possibilities of studying financial and economic activities, the withdrawal or the withdrawal of funds that you are now informing society. And the third important aspect. Fighting corruption is a problem for the state of Ukraine. That's what took over the 23rd, 4th, 5th years was the priority of breaking up the state budget, "acceptance," other factors. The government of Ukraine today is leading the first public, right - hand fight against corruption. The second important position. You and I will be able to deal with clear mechanisms, publicity and solutions to these issues today when we form a legislative base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u33	Thank you. From "The Will of the People," Martínjak Sergei passes. Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich is handing over Lithuania. Please, Mr. Litwin, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u34	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. I would ask him to step away from the phone and listen to the question. In connection with the festival, I will be as tolerant as possible. In December, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted a Decision on the distribution of subsidies to the socio-economic development of Ukraine. And amazingly, certain areas that are remarkably compatible with certain districts have come to zero! One district got a lot, the other district got a lot -- less, the third district -- nothing. It is clear that the government budget bought the political loyalty of the Ukrainian national deputies. I have a question for the Minister of Finance, but I don't need to refer to the Committee on Budget Affairs: you don't think it's a crime that punished people who don't play games at certain times.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u36	Don't you think it's corruption, the excess of official authority, the abuse of power -- that individual territories, the people who live on them, are being punished by the Cabinet of Ministers for not being loyal to the MP? And I'm asking you, just don't give general answers, just give me specifics, because we've been listening to some sort of reason for an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u37	Well, I'll be as specific as possible. Thank you for asking. As you know, social development amounts are allocated by Parliament, Parliament's decision, and then there's the question of how to effectively distribute this money. And you can't say it's just the Cabinet of Ministers' responsibility. We understand that this is money all over Ukraine, so we're involving deputies to get you, well, representatives from all over Ukraine, you see what needs to be done in places. Therefore, it is on the basis of this information that a commission, including members of the Committee on Budgets, forms proposals for the distribution of this money, which is then formally approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, you can talk about how to change the distribution of this money even better, at this point it works that way and effectively, inefficiently, it's you to judge. We'll be here this year. This year, if you have a position to change the process, please, we're ready to hear it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u38	Thank you. From the "Rebirth Party" group, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Well, I want it now. I'm holding the poster to see Mrs. Suprun and Mr. Minister of Finance. It's a girl named Mounchanuk Arina, three years old, and she has a very difficult diagnosis of neuronal cerophoscinosis 2, which is the only diagnosis in Ukraine. So today, actually, I don't know, I don't know, whether it's a joint decision or just an M.O.I.A. decision, this child is actually against all international conventions on child rights left without medical care. Yes, there's a lot of money, but I have a very simple question to Mrs. Suprun and to the Minister of Finance: how much does human life and the life of a child cost? At the same time, I ask Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, who is here today as senior in the government. And to intervene in Mr. Science's situation and find the money to treat this child, because we are a European country, sorry, and should not be like in the underdeveloped countries where life is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u40	Please, Uljana Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u41	This child has become ill with so - called heart disease, a very rare disease that is either one of her own, or very few children who are ill. Every year, the state makes some. A few hundred million dollars to treat them. This child has been diagnosed after the budget has been written, so we are now looking for how we can finance it through a budget program of orthodontic diseases. We have this under control, we know that this is happening, and we're working not only with the family itself, but also with organizations that are dealing with orthodontic disease. Well, this shows what a problem we have in financing health care. Because instead of funding each person’s treatment, we finance programs. And that's why the changes that we've made to the legislation now, thanks to you people's deputies that you voted for money going after a patient, not an official or a program, we'll be able to change this so that every year when a child gets sick, we can pay for this particular child's treatment, not some program to spend money and not know if there's enough money in that program. Thank you for highlighting this, because this is a very important thing. And we have control, and please contact us, we can tell you in detail how we're already working on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u42	Thank you. And the closing question from the faction, from Peter Dusty's Block, is Barn Oleg. And then there'll be questions from deputies, I think. So, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u43	Christ Gets Baptized! Peace to all Ukraine and cleansing from Moscow's evil next year. I have a question for the government. At the end of the year, military pensions were promised when the budget was adopted. When can these pensions be expected to be increased for the military? And the second. Yesterday we passed a law that declared the country an aggressor. How does the government continue to decide whether or not to buy gas in Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u44	First, Reva, and then Nasalika will be able to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u45	Honourable Oleg Stepanovich, a bill amending the Pension Insurance Act for persons released from military service, and some other persons from the Ministry of Social Policy have been drafted and, in accordance with the mandate of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, we are now working together with strong authorities to reconcile his positions. The working group has been working since January 3, and the work has not yet been completed. We intend to conclude this work soon and to pass on the draft bill after the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ukrainian Parliament. And hopefully in February-month, we'll all be considering and adopting this bill together. Then, according to the standard laid down in this bill, pensions for retired military personnel will be counted from January 1, 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u46	Thank you. And Nasalik will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Liege, for asking. Apparently, by formulating it, you were referring to the NAC leader's statement on the possibility of purchasing gas from the Russian Federation. So I'm going to answer essentially. It's number one. NAK Naftogaz Ukraine is not in the sphere of government of the Ministry of Energy of the Coal Industry. Item two. The NAC leader Naftogazu has in no way synchronized his statement with the Ministry of State Policy. Paragraph three. The government, by adopting the NAC Naftogazu Ukrainian financial plan, was not considering the possibility of purchasing Russian gas. And paragraph four. Ukraine succeeded in a year and a half for PSOs, that is, reducing imports of gas to 900 million. And in general, as we're developing Crushing, we're looking at the possibility that by the end of the year this deficit will be gone 900 million. This will enable you to resolve two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u48	Please, just give me a minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u49	By formulating the price for gas to a population determined by the 187th Order, we will no longer be associated with import parity. And the position of a friend. We don't need import gas for PSOs. And let commercial structures buy where they consider it necessary. This is the gas market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u50	Thank you. So, colleagues, here's a question from the national MPs. If you want to ask questions, take part in the record. I'm giving you time to take jobs, yeah. And please hold the recording, 15 minutes for questions from the National MPs. Please. So you see the list. Almost the entire coalition. You see, we've introduced a smart house system, and it gives the right choice. Please, from the People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u51	I give the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Igor Stepanovich, the question will be with you. Literally, information has just been received that DTEK is shutting down shipments from state-owned coal companies. I literally spent a few days meeting with the energy headquarters, raising that question. You said the problem and how it should be solved, because there's a protocol solution where Centrenergo is bound to take into custody at DTEK, and the DTEK will take into state mines accordingly. Unfortunately, I was so aware that they were completely shutting down the shipment of coal, and I realized that, as they called me, the unions were still leaving behind the right to cover the roads leading to those TECs, TECs that belong to DETEC.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Michael, for asking. In fact, I want to thank you for taking part in the energy headquarters that raised these questions last night. But I wanted to talk about two things. The first ingredient, to date even with this question, you have shown that there is no carbon deficit in Ukraine, there is a coal surplus, despite the fact that Ukraine has halved its consumption of anthrax. Position of the second. I fully support you and I've just given you the full minutes of the meeting of the Minister of State of DTEK and Centenergo on the responsibility of Centrenergo to purchase state resources for its generating stations. If this protocol is implemented, I don't think there's going to be any comment in the supply of a gas group of coal to the generating stations. If it is not executed, then we will make a decision to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Alexander Trelyakov gives Arthur Gerasim his word. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I have a question for First Vice Prime Minister Stephen IvanovichKubiwa. Stepan Ivanovich, we all understand that one of the key tasks of today is to increase Ukrainian exports in particular with the closure of certain markets and certain transits at present. You wouldn't be able to tell us what the government's efforts and the government's success or the government's failures, the discovery of new export directions and, let's say, especially in terms of strategic countries of different parts of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Arthur! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for the question that is very important to the Ukrainian economy and in general for Ukraine as a state in international markets. The other one. You know that innovation and industrial modernization create possible tools and real competition for Ukrainian production in international markets. When we evaluate the 2012-2016 period, we lost $31.4 billion in exports. During a period when the Russian market is closed and the orientation of the European, American, African, Asian markets is a great deal of work that has been done over the last four years, by efforts and prime ministers, and by the government as a whole, and together with the Supreme Council for the Adoption of Laws. And what I'm saying is that in the 11 months of the 17th year, exports amount to $39.5 billion. That's 20 percent more than last year. And that tells us that we were able to reorient, increase positions and get 20 percent growth. You've been asking questions about market expansion. So what I'm saying is, only 15.9 out of 39.5 billion are just European markets. Other markets are India's market, China's market and Africa's market. And I'm counting on the Asian continent markets, the American continent, to be the future and the expansion of export work. And finally. The law, which is jointly voted by the government and the Supreme Council, on an export credit agency, is being implemented today, and the appropriate budgeting funds are being allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u57	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u58	Allocation of 200 million dollars to start this job. Together with the Economic Committee and Mr. Galasseus Victor, the Prime Minister is in charge, and the second, a meeting with me is conducted with a clear organizational work on the implementation of the credit agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Captain Olena, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Tetjani Ostrovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Stephen Ivanovich! Tax on income tax; financial investigation in exchange for inefficient force units — GPI, BSP and National Police; liquidation of the Tax Police, which has been suspended for a year; de-offshorisation, controlled foreign companies in the Tax Code and the next — free movement of capital and cancellation of the Soviet Monetary Regulation decree. The government is not doing well in this direction. The Ministry of Finance has self-removed and does not take real steps to bring these bills into Parliament and to effectively consider them. Business asks: When you start doing real things, you don't have to pull your indicators to some level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u62	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, the first part of the answer will be me, and the second part will be the Minister of Finance. First thing I want to say. The Ukrainian government has a clear program on the issue you've set up, Mrs. Helena. The other one. Two meetings held by representatives of Parliament, the President of Ukraine, the government with international associations, where there were direct, clear answers, a clear programme of action and an operational map of the government's work for 2018. At the same time, the government, the President of Ukraine, and the head of the committee, Mrs. Yuzanin, presented these basic laws, which should be adopted jointly in 2018. I don't think it's right that this problem, which has been going on for more than 25 years, can be solved by one law or one government decision. This is our joint work, this is the responsibility of the government, which Prime Minister VladimirGroysman has repeatedly informed about the real clear anti-corruption agenda. Thank you. And Alexander Daniluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. There were a few elements to this question. First. Regarding the Law on Taxation of Distributed Income. As you know, the bill was drafted, presented and approved by the government, and there was a meeting between the President and the Prime Minister and the business where the law was presented. He is now being initiated either by the President or by the government, because there is support for both the President and the government. And when he's in the Supreme Council, you'll be able to continue working with this law. But I think all the signals about this model of taxation, its advantages were already sent both by the government and by the head of state. That's the first one. Regarding DFS reform. I thank you very much, Tetjana, that you also properly appreciate the state of affairs and you realize that without systematic changes in the tax service, the result of a clear one that everyone will not feel will be. And because, as you know, several acts have been cancelled because they just haven't completed the procedure for their acceptance, signing. So now we're going to initiate new acts. I know that some members of the committee don't really support this, I know why, but it's good that you understand that it's important, and the Prime Minister understands that. So for now, we're going to speed up the reform of the DFS, we're going to create the only, the only legal person for customs, the only legal person for tax purposes, to clean up corruption on the spot. After.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u64	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u65	Then we'll have a perspective, we'll have the opportunity to involve better people, because they will believe in this reform, not in cosmetic change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u66	Please, Melnichenko gives the floor to Andrew Lozov’s question. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u67	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. I'd like to inform the honourable government officials if they don't know all of a sudden that while we all know what's most important is the development of the economy, it's the creation of jobs, it's the protection of small and medium-sized businesses, it's the protection of a national producer, at this time a government structure like the State Labour Service, headed by Mr. Roman Cherneg, engaged in a godless racket, nightmares entrepreneurs all over the country, bribes them, beats them in various fights. Pay attention! I was approached by the Federation of Expert and Inspectional Organizations with a request for assistance. Thousands of qualified experts in Ukraine cannot work because the State Department wants to have monopolies through expert technical centres, totally corrupt. I'm ready to give you a clear statement, which is the least in the Plainland, where Mr. Carpupk has been three times. I've lost three courts. I have an address on the Shire. Stop the legal racket that does the Holder. Get away from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u68	Please, Reva. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Andrey, I ask you to convey this address to me as Minister of Social Policy. We'll consider and take steps to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Melniczuk gives the floor to Nemirowski’s question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the Cabinet, Mr. Reva, the question is to you. It is likely that on the pensions of military pensioners, there will be no more piranhas unless he is dead or unborn. There was such a shameful situation that statements from the Minister of Social Policy were constantly echoing, that there would be a recalculation of pensions, but it didn't happen. People have failed and are already holding protests throughout the country. This is a disgraceful situation that gives rise to mistrust in all branches of government. Please resolve this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Nemirowski, I absolutely share your concern, the situation that has arisen. The only thing I'd like. And you're absolutely right when you say that the issue becomes a political situation. The only thing I would like to pay attention to is those who are raising this question today. Dear colleagues, the truth is that pensions need to be raised by the military and raised substantially. But the problem is that the old law, which today is about the pension provision of military personnel in this regulation that is in force today, does not provide any legal basis for the recalculation of pensions today. That's why, when the Supreme Council passed a pension reform bill on October 3, there was a separate mandate, there's an appropriate provision in this law, which also provides for changes to the law to create these legal grounds for recalculation, which is what we are doing now. And such a law is to come to the Supreme Council in agreement with all powerful authorities. We're running this job now, and in the near future, I hope we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u73	Thank you. And, colleagues, one more question. Fedoruk Mikola gives the word to whom? Maxim Burbaku. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u74	I have a question for Stepan IvanovichKubiwa. Stepan Ivanovich, I'm just asking you to give an assignment today to release vaccines for vaccination against the crust for the Cherniewsky region. Because they are about to end, and children should be vaccinated immediately. Secondly, I have a question about, Stepan Ivanovich, I know that the budget has provided an appropriate amount of billions of dollars for the construction of the roads of Žitomir-Chernivitz. Unfortunately, in recent times, officials of the "Staff" have voluntarily intervened in the distribution of this money, which has substantially halved funding for the construction of roads on the section of the Black Attack. Please find out what the situation is and correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u75	Dear Maxim Yuriovich, thank you for asking, it's in two parts. The first part is that you today, the distinguished national MPs, the entire Ukrainian people, have heard the reality of the bark situation, as reported by the Acting Minister of Health. The other one. Maxim Juryovich, in relation to the vaccine, this is the request that you have made, oral as a national MP, and it will be answered accordingly, and this is addressed to Mrs. Ulyani Suprun today. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the vaccine will be, and the vaccine will be. And the third important question is about the road fund. I'm asking Omelyan Vladimir to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u76	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. The great head of the faction, the issue we're dealing with, is now the final list of the distribution of funds on the government's agenda. I hope that, together with Vladimir Eusebiusovich next week, we will be able to go back to those decisions that have been approved by Parliament, I think their violation is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time spent asking questions is exhausted. I want to thank the Cabinet for taking part in the meeting and invite them at one o'clock to close the session, so we're not saying good-bye yet. We'll meet you here at your workplace at 1:00. And I remind you that under the Rules there will now be half an hour of questioning. Then the hour of the national MPs, there is the suggestion that we cancel the recess with a voluntary decision and finish the session more quickly for the same half - hour period. No one has any objections? Nobody. The hall was united around this proposal. Then, half an hour of enquiries, hour of speeches, no interruption at the first hour, the closing of the session, reminding everyone that at 1:00 we are meeting in the closing room for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I'm going to hand over the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! There are 268 requests registered today, now we're all going to publish them. And there are a few questions that are addressed to the President of Ukraine. As you know, in order to deal with these questions, we need to make a name for our support for the question. So the request to the President of Ukraine, Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich, for the abolition of the terrible pension injustice that has affected millions of ordinary Ukrainian citizens every month of their official work since 2000 to reduce pensions. I ask you to vote first in favour of the request. [[11:15:43]] For-47 47 votes, no need. Victoria Vojtsiecki to the President of Ukraine on non-implementation of Dniproenergo's "Dniproenergo" measures to limit the emissions of pollutants. Please vote in favour. [[11:16:10]] For-48 48 votes, no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u79	On this question to the President of Ukraine, which we were unable to direct, they ended, and I'm going to call on colleagues to other authorities and institutions. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporarily acting minister of health of Ukraine, the head of the Zitomir Observatories for the provision of funds for the operational treatment of an aortic valve, Kolodovna Alli Mikolayivni, who lives in a village of the town type Lake Zitomir district of the Žitomir region. Victor Razwadowski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of a lyngafone office for 15 student workplaces with appropriate equipment and software and ten fixed computers for the compilation of an additional computer class at the University of Myropilian High School of the Romanov district of Žitomir. Anton Yatzenka to Henprocuror as to the need to take urgent action in the face of animal cruelty. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance on socio-economic issues. Anton Yatzenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the need to take urgent action to deal with animals cruelly. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Fiscal Service, the Ministry of Finance for the Use of Measures to Eliminate Tax Law Violations. Anatoly Denisenka to the Minister of Politics to settle the issue of providing address assistance to internally displaced persons to cover the cost of living and other expenses. Anatoly of Denisenka to Minister of Youth and Sports, Minister of Politics, on the development of the State Development Program and strengthening the institution of family and family relations in Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the National Police regarding the use of the authorities of the National Police of Ukraine to respond to acts of vandalism concerning the Memorial of Eternal Glory in Kiev and to ensure the organization of the Memorial. VictoriaSumar to the Minister of Culture, head of the Lviv Observatories regarding the status of the provision of the Podgorica Castle and the Church. I'm sorry, the castle and the church. Victor Pinzenik to the Head of the Supreme Council for the purpose of determining the circumstances, Bill No. 6542-d was introduced as an alternative to the day plenary session on December 21, 2017. Michael Bondar to the minister’s office for changes in the order of accounting and payment of the EU’s general government social insurance for certain categories of insured persons. Michael Bondar to the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Kamyanka-Buzkoirajeridrydovna administration of the Lviv region, the head of the Buzka Rayrad of the Lviv region, the head of the Brodiv Rajad management of the Lviv region, the head of the Radehivsk Paradise of the Lviv region, the head of the Radehiv region, the Radehiv Rajad of the Lviv region, the head of the Bródija Paradise of the Lviv region, the head of the Bus Rajad region, on the census of local and national architecture monuments. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the retirement benefits of retirement after they have reached retirement age. Vladislav Buhareva to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from Ukraine’s State Budget for 2018 for the capital repair of Sumi Kharkiv’s road. Vladislava Buhareva to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 for the acquisition of an X-ray facility for the Labedina Central District Hospital in Sumské region. Andrija Kisselova to the Prime Minister on the proposal for health expenditure of the Dobropel City Council of the Donetsk Region. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister for immediate intervention and effective measures to address the crisis that has arisen around the activities of the Lugansk Energy Union and directly threatens the uninterrupted power supply of the area. VitaliaCoprya to the head of the BSC regarding the publication of documents by the Russian Federation FSB that confirm the pro-Russian position of President Poshenko of Ukraine. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the Reconstruction of the Railway Station in the city of Beregovo. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the absence of vaccines for the prevention of measles, parotits and rubella in the country's medical institutions. Sergey Rybalka to the head of the BAF on the misconduct of the employees of the service in conducting searches in the founder of the magazine prophylaxis and blockage of "ForkLog" Anatoly Kaplan. Irina Konstankevich to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Finance for Non-Invention of Funds to Fund Support Schools in the Volin Region. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin Oblast, head of the Road Service in Volinské region, for the provision of information on the list of objects for which funding is provided from the Volinsk Region Road Fund. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister for sabotage of the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the Cabinet's order to transfer to the operational administration of the National Institute of Scientific and Scientific Research of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to the Lviv National Medical University of Danil Galicko for the purpose of improving educational, scientific and preventive work. Constantine Jarinich, until the temporary duty of the minister of health to provide young mothers with children under difficult living conditions, with the necessary medical means, in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Ministry of Health in a dangerous situation in Ukraine in connection with the outbreak of bark. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute a court decision by the Department of Forced Enforcement of the Decisions of the Civil Service Tribunal in the Kharkiv region. Alexander Kirsza to the Prime Minister for the cessation of the illegal construction of a public food establishment, which has resulted in the destruction of a monument to the local architecture located on Chernishewska Street, 88 in Kharkiv. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Infrastructure to provide the officials of the Kharkiv Directorate of PAT "Krošta" with untrue information for the parliamentary address and deliberate delay in restoring the work of the post office 61027 in the area of the MHC "Internationalist" in Kharkiv. Vasil Janicka to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Rivneoblanergo", head of the Dubrovic Rem Pat "Rivneoblanergo", Dubrovic City Head to solve the problem of connecting to the electricity grid of the residential house of the participant ATO Marinez Sergija Volodymirovich in the city of Dubrovic of the Plain region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Head of the Ravenna Observatories for the Construction of the Training Corps of the Rokitnian NVC, School I-III of the Levels, in the village of Rokitno Rokitni district of the Plain region. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to modernise the international entry points on the Ukrainian-Polish border of Yagodin and Stilug. IgoryaGuza to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, Minister of Education and Science for the Treatment of Certain Articles of the Law on Education. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to adjust the amount of education subsidy for the general secondary education establishments of the city of Sambora Lvivsk district for 2018. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Lviv Observatories, Head of the Ivano-Frankov oblivion, Head of the Chernobyl oblivion, Head of the Zacarpatsky oblivion to support the regional pilot project on the implementation of the Ukrainian Education Act, taking into account mountain conditions. Savchenko's hopes for Henprocuror's activation and prosecution of the judicial investigations carried out by law enforcement authorities regarding officials of the State Department of Defence's National Aviation and Repair Plant. VadimKrivochatka to Henprocuror for obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Sergija Melnika to the Prime Minister on support for Ukrainian producers of electricity and industry development. Sergey Melnika to the Prime Minister for compensation to heat-efficient companies in the city of Hmelnicke difference in tariffs for thermal energy. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Zacarpathian Observatory for the Reconstruction of the Road Area to the Shipit Force from a mile 0 + 570 km to a mile 0 + 852, the Philippine Rural Council of the Mižgir district of Zakarpatsk. Igor Vasjunika to the Prime Minister on the illegal actions of the State Department of Geology and the nadr of Ukraine. Igor Vasyunika to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the possible falsification of documents by the Zabrian Rural Council. Sergey Leschchenka to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council on the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship of Natalia Poklonsky. Sergia Kaplina to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on checks on the validity of the tariffs for passage in the passenger transport of the city of Poltava Dmitr Lubinz to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the investigation of crimes committed by Dobropelian city chief Donetsk district, Andriy Aksionov. Group of National Deputies (Prashenka, Sporisha, Melniczuka) to Henprocuror for the purpose-based use of budget funds during the reconstruction of the central area and fountain in the village of the town type Tomaspel of the Vinnitsk Region. Dmitri Lubinz to the head of the Security Service in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas for the investigation of crimes committed by Dobropelian City Chief of the Donetsk Region, Andriy Aksionov. RuslanaDemczak to the Prime Minister for the free feeding of children of ATO participants. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Political Affairs, Employment and Pension Insurance, Prime Minister for an immediate review in the first reading of Bill 6508 on the lifting of a terrible pension injustice, which affects millions of ordinary "black" Ukrainian citizens every month of their official work after 1 July 2000. DmitraWelcome to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary circumstances, heads of the Water Management Department, Chief of the Hmelnice Police Directorate, Director of the Department of Agro-industrial Development, Ecology and Natural Resources of the Hmmelnick Region, Prosecutor of the Hmmelnsk Region, Head of Deredecological Inspection in the Hmmelnsk Region. The use of urgent measures to halt the systematic violation of the requirements of Ukrainian environmental legislation, which resulted in an extraordinary situation around the Comoros and the Community, as well as the provision of information on the state of pretrial investigation in the combined criminal investigation number 12016240200000172 from 01.04. In 2016. DmitraWelcome to the Minister of Culture, the head of the Vinnick observatories for not allowing the destruction of a house located in the village of Shershny Tivrovski district, Winnitsky district, where he spent his childhood years an outstanding Ukrainian composer and public figure, Mikola Leontovich. Vladimir Arjeva to the Minister of Finance for the possible imposition of sanctions against Ukraine because of the inaction of the Ministry of Finance in implementing the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Burmić and others v. Ukraine case. Vladimir Parasjuka to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for violations during the capital repair of the project "Capital Repair (Thermal Modernization) of the DNZ building No. 7 "Red Hat" on the street of Lipa, 10 in the city of Novoyavorysk Yavorów district of Lviv Region". Vladimir Parasyuk to the head of the State Fiscal Authority. Excuse me, State Fiscal Service in the Lviv region, Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Lviv region, Head of the National Police Directorate in the Lviv region for the verification of the legality of the production activities of Agro-Colos and FOPLaluk in the village of Chernobyl in the region of Lviv. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on increasing the size and order of payments of state aid at the birth of a child. Alexander Nechayeva to the minister of internal affairs for the investigation of the Santa Claus incident, for the involvement of patrol officers, for the strengthening of the responsibilities of patrol officers in carrying out their duties, and for the prevention of a deterioration of the situation on Ukraine’s roads. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the urgent investigation of poaching in the Grand Duchy district of Suma. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence for the Housing of the Military Staff of the State Science and Testing Centre of the U.S.S.A., transferred from the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the city of Chernigov. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the creation of a state-of-the-art conservation reserve in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the privatisation of state property in the 18th year. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the critical underfunding of the flood defence system. Irina Efraemov to Minister of Interior, Minister of Justice for the Return to Ukraine from the Russian Federation of a Child Zvierev Maxima to his father, the legal guardian of the Beast of Mikola. MikhaylaDowbenka and Andrija Lopushanski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development on the need to expand the positive experience of granting "warm loans" to the population and further improve the program. Olga the Mantis until the temporary duty of the minister of health to investigate the fatalities of the bark in the Odessa region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Infrastructure for the Capital Repair of the Road Area of International Value M-21. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the elimination of social injustice in the calculation of pensions. Groups of National Deputies (Gerega, Shinković, others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, on the use of effective measures to neutralize the dangerous chemical dumping, detection and punishment of persons involved in its creation on the land of the Roxxane sulfide in the Hmelnicki district. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the summary of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers on the protection of the rights of the child in 2017. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Justice about the number of registered births of a child by applying specific articles of the Ukrainian Family Code. Igor Popov to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency for the Implementation of an Automated System of Logical and Arithmetic Control of E-Declaration. Igor Popov to the head of Nazcomsia, which regulates national energy and municipal services in order to comply with legal procedures when deciding to increase electricity prices. MaximaBurbaka until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide the Chernobyl area with the necessary number of vaccines to carry out preventive vaccinations. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister for the creation of an organizational committee for the preparation and conduct of the 100th anniversary celebration of the Bukovinska Evening. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds from the state budget reserve fund to deal with the consequences of an extraordinary natural situation in the city of Berdichov in the Žitomir region. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the use of measures to invigorate the investigation into the criminal conduct of the Berdichov GNP in the Zitomir region. Ruslana Solvara to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Pension Fund for the Upgrading Mechanism. Ruslana Solvar to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Head of the State Treasury Service, Director of the State firm Ucroborinprom, National Research Enterprise Buran Institute on the settlement of the issue of debt repayment on salary to employees of the State Enterprise of the scientific research institute Buran. OlegaCulinica to the Minister of Social Affairs for the clarification of the mechanism for the promotion of pensions to the CHAES disaster liquidators. OlegKulinich to the Minister of Justice for the clarification of the mechanism for the exemption of the congregation from payment of compulsory state pension insurance for the conclusion of contracts for the sale of immovable property. Igor Aleksiev to the Rector of the Academy of State Penitentiary Service for Expansion of Functional Expansion IgoryaArtushenka to the Head of the Board, the Minister of Justice, Henprocuror for the criminal activity of individual MPC representatives and the Public Organisation of the Orthodox Union "Radomir" in Zaporozhye. Ivan Melniczuk to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for the violation of the requirements of land and urban architecture by Kadorr Group. Mikoli Palamarczuk to deputy head of the Ukrainian Police Department, head of the National Police Department in Kiev, for the BO Foundation for International Anti-Corruption Courts, to T.O.S.G. PLUS. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice for bringing to justice the judicial responsibility of the judge of the Odessa District of Svetlana in connection with the deliberate substantial violation of procedural law during the execution of justice. Alexander Bryginz to Kiev City Head on possible illegal construction in the area of the park, near the Taras Shevchenk Film Theatre, opposite the houses on the street of Vysgorodska, 47a, 47b, 47b of the Podil district (in addition to the park "Crister's Hill"). Tetjani Čornovol to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure for the Cessation of the Unilateral Order of the Pat "Krošta" to provide services for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions of the so-called "Express Media shab". Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Didića and others) to the head of Nazcomisi, which regulates the state’s energy policy on the rightfulness of the consumption of natural gas at the border of 9 to 8 cubic metres per person by refusing to set up a nationwide natural gas counter and the obligation for gas-disposal system operators to carry out the census. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister on the possibility of further funding important medical programs in the 18th year. PaulRisanenka to the director of the Public Shareholders Association Kiivenergo on the use of measures to protect the interests of consumers from providing hot water for consumption and improving consumer service. Vitalia Gudzenka to head the Kyiv government on active financing in the 18th year of construction and capital repair of sociospheric objects in the Skuri district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary headship of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for the permanent use of land for the creation of public pastures in Yasenivsk and Antonov village councils in the Kyiv district of St. Andrija Illenka, acting head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, Minister of Infrastructure for the appointment of the train by Kharkiv-Odes via Suma stations, Konotop, Kiev, Balta, Vradivka, Pervomaysk. Andrea Illenka to the Ukrainian Council of Security and Defence, Department of Religions and Nationalities of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice on the need to take action on the anti-State activities of representatives of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate). Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macoli) to the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Service in matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre to ensure that ATO participants are entitled to land allocations to property. Groups of Nardeps (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Education and Science on the conduct of informational work in the media. Sergio Rudika to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure for Unjustified Reduction of Subvention from the State Budget for Local Budgets for Financial Security of Construction, Reconstruction, Repair and Maintenance of Roads of General Use of Local Meaning, Streets and Roads of Municipal Property in the Settlements of Kamyan, Smilyan, Cherka district, as well as other areas of the Cherkas region. Sergei Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the immediate resolution of the issue of the recalculation of pensions to military pensioners and representatives of other military departments of Kamyansk, Smilanski, Cherkaski and other regions of the Cherkas region, as well as other regions of Ukraine. Tetjana Ostrikov to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, the head of the Ravenn Observatories for honoring the memory of the hero of the battle under the Kruts of the native John Grusecki. TetjanaOstrichov to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to answer questions raised in the field of competence. Alexandre Compromise to the Prime Minister on the systematic misconduct of individual officials of the State concert "Ucroborprom" to the Cabinet of Ukraine regarding the free transfer from state to municipal property of the Preschool Institute No. 331 on Kamyanska Street in the Darnitsky district of Kiev. Alexandre Co-partner to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, on the effectiveness of financing the socio-economic development of Kiev. SergiaLyvočina to the Prime Minister on the negative social consequences of consumer price increases. IriniSiyenko to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health regarding the state of preparation of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine of the legislation necessary for the implementation of the laws of Ukraine "On State Financial Guarantees for Health Care of the Population" "To amend certain legislation in Ukraine on improving legislation on health care. IriniSiyenko, to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine as to the need to make changes to the qualifications of the director of the medical and preventive institution. Romana Semimenha to assume the responsibilities of head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Kharkiv Observatories, head of the Vovčan Rajrad of Kharkiv Region, head of the Vovčan Reich Administration of Kharkiv Region for the repair of the road in the direction of Kharkiv-Rubežne-Vovčansk. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister on the legislative regulation of the mandatory transfer of newly built housing complexes, together with all auxiliary facilities to the balance sheet of OSBB. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to adopt a special normative act of the Cabinet of Ministers to settle the issue of payment of arrears for the year 2014 for former employees of the Mountain Multi-Professional High School. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent allocation of funds to take immediate action to prevent the emergence of an extraordinary technological situation in connection with the sinking of the mines of the First Majo-Stahan region of the Lugansk region. RomanaMatzoli and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, Director of the State Institute of Otolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Medical Sciences of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelnick Observatory for the provision of two hearing aids to a hearing impaired child. RomanaMazoli and Andrija Šinkovic to the Director of the National Cancer Institute for Free Treatment - Silvestruk Oleg, 2008. Oleg Osukhovsky to Henprocuror for the organization of a proper hearing of a parliamentary appeal. Oleg Osukhovsky to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror, Lviv city head, head of the Lviv government on the use of measures to halt illegal construction. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Head of the State Agency for Water Resources, Head of the Chernobyl Authority, Head of the Dniestrovsko-Prutski Basin Management for the allocation in 2018 of the cost of coastal reinforcements in the villages of Dolišna Shepit, Lopushna and Lekechi of the Viscinal Region of the Chernivian Region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Chernovetsk Observatories for the provision of medical assistance to the resident of the village of Ust-Putil of the Czernovets region. Alexander Dubinina to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocuror, Deputy Henprocuror, the director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for State Services of AlixPartners, Kroll and Hogan Lovells and their activities in Ukraine. Groups of Nardeps (Shevchenka, Konstankevitch, others) to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast for the personal control of the head of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrovsk area of criminal conduct, which was discovered following the attack on the Ukrainian Patriotic Union activist UCROP. Groups of Nardeps (Romanov, Babak, only 17) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Minister of Education and Science on problems with the burning of higher education institutions. Group of Nardeps (Shevchenka, Konstankevitch, others) to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the legality of the transfer of the State Industrial Enterprise "Cravbaprostvodakal" in the rental of KP "Cravbasvodkanal". DmitraSpenov to the Prime Minister for helping farmers and individual farms adapt to new milk quality standards. John Balloga to the Prime Minister for the restoration of flood control in the Zakartat region. Paul Rizanka, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Use of Proper Response Measures to Eliminate Violations of Consumer Rights Law. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister for the increase in the amount of expenditure aimed at the purchase of the fluids needed for the endovascular treatment of congenital heart defects. Jaroslava Markevich to the Director-General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert for receiving a copy of the document (Memorandum), compiled between the UKROBORONPROM DC, the Kharkiv National Aviation Production Company, and the American company Oriole Capital Group. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Fuel Prices. Borislav Bereza to the head of the State Architectural Inspectorate, deputy head of the National Police, head of the General Investigations Department on the legality of the construction of new dwellings on Radiost Street, 40th and the prospect of Victory, 67th. Michael Golka to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to consider violating the requirements of legislation when conducting a psychological interview with a polygraph. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Infrastructure, for the allocation of additional funds to repair the roads of the Ternopil region. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfying condition of the Cherniakhov-Malin road (through Potiyevka). PaulJublik to the minister of ecology on environmental impact assessment. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Health Minister for the use of urgent measures to prevent the epidemiological situation in Ukraine and information on the level of measles mortality, the state of preparation for planned vaccinations according to the vaccination calendar and the coverage of preventive vaccinations by children. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to pay off the salaries of budget workers and the public service debt of higher education institutions and other budgetary institutions. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Head of the SBU to assist in the payment of social assistance to the resident of the village of Teterovka, in the region of Cherkas region. JuriyaLevchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of a daily bill on the recognition of volunteers as participants in hostilities, their social and legal status (registration number 7190) since 10 October 2017. Yurya Derevyanka is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to provide information on the number of people who needed/needed and who were undergoing transplantation of organs and other anatomical materials in Ukraine and abroad in 2015, 2016, and 2017, as well as on other issues. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister on the emergency state of the external gas pipelines, which poses a threat to emergency situations. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Prime Minister for the payment of salaries to members of the medical sector of Kolomishte. JuriyaTimoschenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the status of a member of the fighting. Victor Vuka to the Minister of Ecology on the verification of violations of environmental legislation during the procurement, development and approval of documentation and planning of the construction of an environmentally hazardous enterprise in the Chigirian region of the Cherkas region. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the National Police Department in Kharkiv district, prosecutor of Kharkiv district for the protection of the rights of the resident of Kharkiv, ATO participant Alexander Kornilov. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the Police Department in the Kyiv region, the prosecutor of the Kyiv region for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of a citizen who suffered from domestic violence and fraud and the protection of the rights of her minor children. IriniConsensual to the Minister of Social Affairs, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on supervision and control of the quality of job testing under working conditions, and compliance with legislation on work. RuslanaDemczak to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for speeding up the conduct of an effective pre-trial investigation into armed attacks against the farmers of Oratovsky, Nemirovsky, Lipovsky, Illineck and Cemetery and for bringing the perpetrators to justice. Victoria Ptašnik to the Head of the President's Administration for ignoring the appeals of the Ukrainian national deputy and for violating the signing deadlines of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts, registration number 4470. AndriaShipka to the Minister of Social Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the recalculation of pensions. AndriaShipka until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take measures to prevent the spread of measles and outbreaks of disease. AlexiaRubčina to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of financial services markets on the practice of not extending insurance contracts in the areas under control of Donetsk and Lugansk regions and ensuring the rights of residents of these areas to use insurance services. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Geodesy Service, cartography and cadastre, the Odessa Authority, the Odessa City Council on the need to take effective action to address collectively the inhabitants of the area of the Golden Bank of the Kyiv district of Odessa on their concern about the legality of construction work in the recreational zone within 50 metres of the Golden Coast beach near the housing fund of the inhabitants of the micro-region and the Odesky sanatorium, as well as ensuring the safety of the community's activity and non-admission of land. Oleg Petrenka to the Ukrainian State Service on Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Ukrainian State Food Safety Service, Ministry of Ecology, Ministry of Culture, State Water Agency of Ukraine on the report on possible violations of the DP "Premega Nova" ("Our Ryba") regulations for the construction of bird factories in the territory of the Czerka region. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the Board of Rectors of the Odessa Higher Education Institutions and support for the proposal for the urgent introduction by the Ministry of Education and Science of the change to the "wide competition" algorithm for the distribution of public procurement places and the admission to higher education programmes of the "bacalavre" since the "wide competition" algorithm introduced in 2016 called for a reduction of the state procurement for the preparation of professionals by nearly 45 percent, which placed the higher education of Odesztina in a difficult position. Dear colleagues, in just a minute, I'm going to call in the questions and there's going to be an entry for the "Victory" section. So I'm asking everyone to come back to the session room in a moment, all the deputies who are now in the towers and still want to participate, to be in the "Variance" section. I'm asking you to return to the session room. And a few last questions. RobertaGorva to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to analyse the impact on the government budget of Ukraine on making changes to subsection 5 of Section XX of the Tax Code on Promoting the Development of Used Vehicles Market No.1389-VIII from 31 May 2016. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse by officials of their duties by representatives of the central executive authorities and the delay in the creation of the Dniprovsko-Teterovski National Natural Park in the village of Suhólucci, of the Visgorod region of Kyiv Region. Igora Lucenka to the Director-General of the Ukrainian National Institute of Cultural Heritage on established historical and urban foundations. Vladimir Ariev to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the replacement of members of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe without the relevant decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Victoria Vojtsický is the final request to the director of the Department of Oil and Gas Complex of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the materials of previous consultations with potential partners of the operator of the Ukrainian GTS. Dear colleagues, we've announced 268 enquiries, which is good, we don't have any unregistered enquiries. And now, in a minute, we're announcing the entry in the heading "Rizzne," which, according to the Rules, is in Parliament every Friday. Please return to the session room, your honors. And I'm announcing a record of Ukrainian national MPs who are looking forward to speaking now, and I'm announcing a recording under the heading "Rizzne." Please sign up, colleagues, please sign up. Thank you, colleagues. And Mrs. Vice Speaker Oksana Siroid continues to preside at today's session. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Demczak. No, I'm sorry, colleagues. I warned you on more than one occasion: everyone registers only from one’s own place. People's MP. And you signed that up, right? Do you pass the word to Sporish? Please. I'm asking you to just let me know. Thank you. National MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor's presiding officer! Of course, today we asked questions to the government. And that's more than we'd like to ask in our district, because, again, we're going to meet with our voters now, that's usually up to Mrs. Suprun, Ministry of Health. We couldn't ask a question, so I'd like to say from this high rostrum, because the crust question that's going on today is not just in my district, it's all over Ukraine, the Ministry of Health has to think in advance about everything to buy a vaccine. And the population of Ukraine has to do everything to bring their children in, or we know what the consequences might be. And the second thing that Mrs. Suprun wanted was the kids who are waiting today for expenses for treatment abroad, they have to go as quickly as possible. It's also a very painful place today among our population, because children have to be treated abroad. The third thing that I would like to do is, once again, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Minister of Agro-Industrious Development, it's what they're asking us, they're asking us about the districts for what they're going to be today. which we have set aside and budgeted for agriculture. I'll tell you that the allocated costs for the purchase of animals, the allocated costs for the renovation of the premises, for the construction of the premises, but I would like them to really meet this assignment, and I'd very much like things to be simpler here, and not only have these funds been allocated, but there's still some small compensation. Because we know perfectly well that today our animal creation needs, indeed, development. I've had another call, and I'd like to make a call today, from the head of the district administration, the head of the Tulchin district council. You know, we're all going to face this issue today, we're going to face these hospital centers. And the largest district of Tulchin, which is, is supposed to have a hospital center, and it's in Tulchin that it should probably stay that way. And it's going to be very common when they do that right now and they're moving this hospital center into something else, another area. I think the largest district, the largest city in my district, should really have its own center. Although I say Chargorod needs this too, he should also be one of the centers of medicine. I would very much like to speak to our distinguished voters. Dear voters, the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u82	Please, 10 seconds, because there is no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u83	To welcome the electorate. And I think the Supreme Council did what I could. But I'd like to say that we've done a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Galasuk People's Deputy. He is given the word of Yuzkov. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u85	Victor Galasuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszek. Today, government officials have told us from this rostrum about economic success. Each citizen of Ukraine can see for himself these economic successes when he looks at the exchange rate, or he can look at the price of gas at the gas stations, or he can listen to the government about the new loans of the International Monetary Fund that they think are successful. So I want to inform you what this policy means to raise new debts, to sell overseas raw materials and to emigrate talented Ukrainians. The continuation of this policy has led to the current debt burden on the Ukrainian economy reaching more than 85 percent at a critical 60 percent. If we divide today's government debt into 43 million people, we get that every Ukrainian, if we have to repay government debt today, would have to pay, from baby to pensioner, a thousand 750 dollars, just imagine. Who has the money? Today, as taxpayers, we pay off the government debt in a frenzy. This is the second largest article in the state budget. 130 billion dollars this year in the budget is only a percentage of the debt. It's more than medicine, it's more than education, it's more than defense. By dividing these percentages by the holding, these expenses are ours with you to the number of tax payers per person’s income, and for one person there is a thousand dollars of expenses per month. Just think about that number. And the continuation of the policy that our country is in power today only leads to a deterioration of the situation and a weakening of the currency, a rise in prices in shops. The bracelet goes down, our imported economy reacts immediately to rising prices for gasoline, utilities, goods. And there is no end and no end until we change the country's economic policy. That's what the Radical Party team is proposing, the fundamental distortion of economic policy and the change in monetary policy to stop this devaluation, inflation, increase the rate of the bracelets, stabilize the prices and give every Ukrainian the opportunity to work and earn a decent living on these incomes, and give their children a chance. We offer a real alternative to the politics of power. The Export Credit Agency Act, which was initiated by Oleg Lášk and I over a year and a half ago, we've had him admitted to parliament, and he's been working for over a year. But the government has not yet created an Export Credit Agency. This is a special agency that in all successful countries throughout the world uses credit for real manufacturers, insurance, and export contracts. The export credit agency is a cure for the raw structure of the economy, it's a cure for IMF loans, it's a cure for unemployment and migration. And the government has not yet created an Export Credit Agency. Shame! I've already asked the Prime Minister twice for an official order to stop the violation of the law. The Ministry of Economics sabotages the creation of the Export Credit Agency, and no one makes human resources conclusions, they don't fire those who sabotage it, and they pretend to do so. The Radical Party will not allow the modernization of the Ukrainian economy to be sabotaged. Or a second crippling example. You know, in this Chamber of Parliament, for the radical party's initiatives, we passed the Ukrainian Buy, Pay the Ukrainians Bill on the first reading and on the basis. This is a historic bill for Ukraine, one of the most important economic laws in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] His idea is to prefer Ukrainian products to government purchases. Today, our taxes work for other countries' economies, they create jobs there, they provide prosperity and taxes there, so that Ukrainians don't believe, they go around the world to earn 300 euros to survive because there's no work at home. So, "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians" is going to give the Ukrainian products the advantage, and Ukrainian factories are going to pay the Ukrainians, and that's going to be the normal development of the country. The United States has been doing so since 1933. I'm convinced that we have to learn in the United States how to build a successful strong economy for the benefit of our own citizens. That's democracy. Today, the President nominated Jacob Smoliya as head of the National Bank. But will it solve anything — replacing one person for another? We need to change the focus of the National Bank's activities. And so the Radical Party team, we've been supported by over 170 national deputies in this room, co-authors, we've introduced a draft amendment to the Constitution to make the Ukrainian Central Bank, the National Bank, work in the same way as the U.S. Federal Reserve System. Not only was he concerned with financial stability but he promoted economic growth, moderate lending, and unemployment in the country. The U.S. Federal Reserve System does this, the Central Bank of Australia, Malaysia. Similarly, the Ukrainian Nazbank is to receive such assignments from the Ukrainian people. We will strive for a qualitatively new economic policy that will ensure that the real income of the Ukrainians increases and the prospects of a decent life in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u86	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u87	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament! In recent days, the whole society has been trying, through the information field, to instill such schizophrenicism with regard to the creation of an Anticorruption Court that is supposed to save the country from all hardships. In fact, there are two foundations to corruption: poverty, and that's lack of justice. About how to overcome poverty, a colleague of mine, Victor Galasuk, has just told us about the new economic policy proposed by Oleg Láška, the Radical Party. The restoration of justice. We believe and believe that Ukraine needs all anti-corruption courts without exception. Not one, all of them. We consider and propose the release of 100 percent of Ukrainian judges who have completely discredited themselves and the election of a new judiciary on new grounds, including those of district judges and district prosecutors. Let us see what the irresponsibility of the judges has become. Judge Sergei Kornienko kills a man almost on a pedestrian crossing. Judge Usatov of the Holy Court is in an accident. Both are in a state of drunkenness. Therefore, we insist at the beginning of the next session that my and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska, should consider a bill on a radical increase in the responsibility for driving alcohol. I drank, they took away the rights if they got behind the wheel. If I had an accident, 10 to 15 years, no less. Only such radical methods can guide the way on Ukrainian roads. Another challenging problem is violence against children. In the last few days alone, dozens of cases of pedophilia have been reported. So we insist at the beginning of the next session that we consider our bill on the chemical castration of pedophiles and the creation of a public register of pedophiles so that the whole country knows and can watch over whom to protect children. The Radical Party has stood up and advocated the protection of every Ukrainian, not just judges, prosecutors, deputies, officials, but every Ukrainian. Protect the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u88	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u89	Dear Ukrainians, he is getting baptized! And may holy water enrich our purposes and also make us more secure. I would like to start by saying that, in fact, after the adoption of important laws, the occupation of Donbas, also privatization. It is very important for us to keep working on the European Investment Plan. And already, on January 26, Lithuania will hold a separate seminar on the development of investment potential in support of the European plan for our partners. I very much hope that the government, there will be representatives from the Ukrainian government, will be able to present, firstly, investment projects, will also review all the donor funds that are there, and will take into account the audit of the Court of Auditors, why we are using only 49 percent of the funds of the International Financial Organization that are there. It is also very important that we send signals that the business climate in Ukraine is improving. And for this it is important to adopt, in addition to the already-annotated National Security Act, the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, which often misuses its powers and engages in raiding rather than pressure on business, instead of defending territorial integrity and sovereignty to fight separatism. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that we are waiting for the Service Law to be passed. But we are asking the President to appoint ambassadors to Kazakhstan, Switzerland, Denmark, where the Great Conference on Reform Support will be held this year, but there is still no ambassador. And so a huge appeal to the MIC and personally to the President to finally appoint ambassadors and to celebrate this great conference with our representatives. Also by March 6, the Office of the Attorney General must provide data to continue sanctions against the supporters of the Januković regime. It's 16 people, it was 21 before, it's out of 7 already. And that's why we have questions to the Attorney General's Office, what kind of procedural actions have been made in a year? How much money has been arrested in accounts in Ukraine and abroad? And what prevents these cases from being brought to trial? And also, colleagues, I want to say that on January 22 we will celebrate with you 100 years from declaring our new independence. And at the highest level of government leadership, as in Estonia and elsewhere, we did not simply put a twig and invite representatives of the Supreme Council to the Ukrainian House on Friday, where the celebration would take place. I believe that 100 years of Ukrainian independence in general within the century of the Ukrainian Revolution we have to celebrate more extensively in schools, on television, in order for Ukrainian society to be clearly aware of our more than a thousand-year history of 100 years of independence. So to the Presidential Administration of Mr. Rainin, more often to collect organcommittees and show a list of which of the presidents have already been invited, in particular, to honor the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust. So that we don't celebrate the Holocaust, as we do with the century of independence, by conducting an orgcommittee in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u90	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Him. Please, People's Deputies of Ion. She is given the word Ishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I would like to read now the address of the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional merger. We strongly condemn the lack of basic respect and basic intellectual communication skills among fellow MPs, particularly the attempts to misrepresent the vice-premier name of European Euro-Atlantic integration by John Klimpush-Cincadze. And that's exactly what the leader of the Radical Party allowed himself on one of the Ukrainian channels yesterday. And what is more, the members of his team, unfortunately, allowed themselves a mocking laugh in response to the words of their faction leader on the direct air of one of the Ukrainian television channels. We would be very insistent on such a form of communication. She's unacceptable. We call upon the members of the Radical Party to apologize publicly to the vice-premier. And we remind you that these inappropriate sexist statements are no longer the first to allow an MP from the Radical Party. You're just taking a lot of lessons from this rostrum, you might want to join us in writing an application for the interfractional merger of "Equal Opportunities," we'd be training for your entire faction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u92	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka. He is given the word of the people’s deputies Kocheljev and Lensky. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. From this high rostrum, using what ends the next seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to draw the attention of the citizens of Ukraine and my few colleagues who have remained in this room to two very important issues: the energy security of the country and the food security of the country. As the leader of the opposition faction of the Radical Party, our team, which is in opposition to power, we claim that the policy pursued by the authorities threatens Ukraine's national interests, particularly its main component – the country's energy security and food security. Here are some examples. Last year, in 2017, Ukraine purchased nearly 16 million tons of Russian coal, which paid nearly $3 billion. In Novovolinsk, in Volin, they cannot find 1 billion dollars to build a mine, extract anthrax coal, so that our miners can work and earn, for months they do not pay wages in other compounds, but almost $3 billion is spent on importing coal, and then the funds paid from the government budget by Ukrainians go to finance Russian aggression on our Donbassy and Crimea. This policy will lead to, already in this year 2018, if we have imported from abroad as a result, including the Donbas blockades, only the carbon block, then the lack of public policy and the development of the carbon economy will lead to the fact that we will import 40-50 percent of the carbon footprint this year, this is actually the country's energy dependency. I'm not saying that Naftogaz recently announced that he's repurchasing Russian gas. By the way, today is the anniversary of those Moscow treaties, which resulted in a bonded gas agreement in 2009, which the Stockholm Arbitration recently admitted to be one that does not meet the national interests of Ukraine and does not correspond to honest commercial relations between the contracting countries. So the Radical Party team, in the interests of the Ukrainians, in the interests of the national security of the country, we demand that the President, the government, take decisive immediate action to strengthen the country's energy security. First of all, the adoption of the State Carbon Development Programme, the investment in the growth of coal production. Modernization of our TECs, energy systems and, first of all, energy-modernization of housing and utilities to give up. lower tariffs. In order for Ukrainians to pay less for utilities, subsidies need not be given, as in the budget for today’s year, 70 billion dollars in subsidies and less than a billion dollars in energy-generating money. What does that mean? This is the preservation of poverty, addiction, and beggary. And then 300 dollars before the election is given to people in elections to buy voter loyalty again. Ukrainians do not need taxes, Ukrainians need honest policies, policies of energy dependency, policies of increasing the income of workers to avoid spending all their money on utilities and medicines, but to feed their families, feed their children, and live with confidence in their home country, and watch tomorrow. We're asking you to increase the cost of energy modernisation, to anticipate state-owned free, non-performing lending programs, to scale up Ukraine's window, door, boiler room, heat and all the other housing and utilities, and this will enable you to actually double the cost of housing-communal services tariffs. Not the lie and the lie when, in fact, 70 billion dollars paid by the Ukrainians to the state budget go into the pocket of the oligarchs through what is called subsidies. And poverty, as it was, remains, and the broken-down, put up as King of Horoch, the cauldrons, as they stood, stand still, is a road to nowhere. The Radical Party policy is different: the road to light, the road to victory is our policy, it's the light at the end of the tunnel. And the second thing I'd like to say is that it's a very important issue of food security. I'm going back to the topic of the village, to the life of Ukrainian peasants. The government now says that they postponed the decision for six months. As a result, Ukrainian peasants will not be able to sell their milk. But it's not a solution, it's like a dead park. Because when we are told today that Ukrainian milk is inconvenient, look at them all: they are all pink. Why? Because as a child, they drank quality Ukrainian milk. And today, when they got to power, it turns out that Ukrainian milk is innocuous, Ukrainian peasants are not what peasants are all over the world, because of them, by the way, and it turns out that quality imported milk. And I have a simple question: Where do 14 million peasants and their children live because of the price of milk and vegetables? That is why we demand that the government, the government, take immediate decisive action to protect Ukrainian agriculture. First of all, the establishment of a minimum price for milk, the implementation of a national programme for the creation of cooperatives for consumers, small family farms, the introduction of state subsidies for support and the restoration of agriculture. In particular, animal agriculture as suggested in the Radical Party programme, and the main thing is to give land to farmers, not to latifunds and transnational corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u94	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u95	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow national MPs, unfortunately, but it is unfortunate to admit that the policies of the Ukrainian government today are not designed to protect national interests: the economic interests of our nation. Unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy of the Nephrodite, who is currently practically lobbying foreign companies and destroying the economy of his own state. Why? We see that today national interests are not advocated in the international arena, but rather the basic agreement on the association of free trade with the European Union. Unfortunately, in ten days our country has chosen the entire quota for the export of duty-free products to the markets of the European Union. Instead, we see that there's a sharp peroxide going towards goods from Europe, more than three billion. (b) The economic balance. In view of Ukraine’s failure to negotiate with European partners today to increase the quota for the dutyless export of our goods and products. Of course, ours go, mostly raw materials, unfortunately, it's just wood, grain and so on, and ore -- it's not good quality products with high added value, and it's also a big problem. Because we see that Ukraine's business is not being stimulated today, it's not being given cheap loans, it's not being given subsidies by the state today, as in European countries. So we see that there is a complete distortion and imbalance of our economic system thanks to such leaders, thanks to people who are not in the national interest, but in the interests of foreign companies. We see that today the government is clearly saying, they don't want to raise the Ukrainian economy, they've come up with a simple way of selling all the state property that's left over, all the strategic enterprises. And this law, which was passed yesterday by Parliament -- 7066 -- is anti-national and anti-State. Instead of voting on our free laws, which have been registered in Parliament for three years now – 1856 – to bring criminal responsibility to so-called "heads of state enterprises", which have led state-owned enterprises to bankruptcy and instead they say they need to sell everything because they can't find quality management! I'm so sorry. A bad dancer always gets in the way. If you can't find high-quality managers, if you can't release corrupters, it doesn't give us any reason to sell out strategic enterprises in our country, it doesn't give us any reason to sell out, what kind of chicken bears golden eggs, which host will do that, sell it? It can only be done by a marauder, it can only be done by a ignorant person, it can only be done by a criminal who is not interested and does not protect the national interests that work for other states. So Freedom calls out: it's not the way out, it's the way to sell government property, it's the order, it's the criminal responsibility of corrupts, it's to release them, and it's still to find quality management. We're ready to do it. If you cannot do so, your authority must go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u96	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u97	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, Parliament passed a law that simplifies the process of privatizing state-owned enterprises in Ukraine. We Freedoms have voted "against" and we think that this is the right position because in war conditions, privatization is just crime and absurd, when we realize that no so-called investor in Ukraine will come when these enterprises have no real value when they cannot be sold for their real value, in fact what happened in the 1990s and what had created in Ukraine and the most corrupt, inefficient and parasitic oligaric economy in all of Europe. It was because of the oligaric privatization that this economy was created. And now that there's not much left of these businesses, today's authorities are planning to continue this process and plunder the last valuable assets left in Ukraine. We have to understand that, of course, opponents of this position, advocates of thoughtless privatization, they always like to speculate, to say that it's as if it's worth keeping state-owned businesses in a state-owned enterprise that they're talking about corruption in a state-owned enterprise. Well, let's say, first of all, that there's no corruption, that there's no corruption, that there's no corruption, that there's no corruption, that there's no corruption, that there's no corruption. Secondly, look at the oligarchic business in Ukraine, which is all private, there is no corruption? Is it not related to today’s authority? Doesn't he get a preference? Does he not have a monopoly? But he's the source of this corruption, that's not the answer. If a business is a waste, maybe there's really a point to selling it, but it has to be determined that it's really a waste, not a fictitious bankruptcy. And in the course of the war, you can't do that anyway, especially when it comes to profit and strategic enterprises, it's definitely unacceptable to sell them. What's the point? It's just a robbery and annihilation of the state. When we're told that everything is privatized in Europe, it's not true. Look at Scandinavia, look at France, look at Germany, look at other countries, there's a percentage of government property, it's very important. There is no need to say that there are no state enterprises. The best German railway in Europe is owned by the state. The French energy giants, they're either in possession or they have a large share of the state. Therefore, we do not need to tell what is not. And finally, we think that. And we have the appropriate laws in Freedom that strategic enterprises, they have to be returned to the oligarches in general, and we demand to do so, that is real deligarization. Just like the Law on. The anti-monopoly law that we also have anti-offshore legislation, that's going to be a real fight against corruption, that's going to be a real deligarchisation of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u98	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Oksanu Korchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u99	Christ Gets Baptized!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u100	I would like to speak only of the light today. But, Mrs. Oksano, I'm asking you to count your statement with the request of a national MP. I am now reminding the few tens of national MPs who are in the war hall in the country. Not the ATO, not the crackdown on the aggression of the Russian Federation, but the war! In this war, we suffer terrible losses: our fights die better, our victims are seriously ill, traumatized, and those who, unfortunately, have died on the frontlines of severe diseases, strokes, heart attacks, and sometimes premature oncology. Nothing from the country. But there's a worse enemy, it's an internal enemy. When the state budget, which the country allocates not 5 percent to defense, is only 2.5 percent (and this is true), the rest goes to law enforcement, is spent shamefully, criminally. I want to tell you how we were bought in this year by a so-called national manufacturer, who is so often supported in this room, these are health cars called "Goddan," which have never been released in our country, which have not been tested, which the country is purchasing for 900,000 dollars. 900,000 dollars for a car that was designed on a conveyor and became. to be held by specific officials of the Ministry of Defence. We had 50 cars at the front. Half stopped during the first months. Half! Cars that cost 30,000 euros, the state budget of Ukraine. Instead, a year ago, the NATO Office offered Ukraine the seal to buy a world-renowned car — a health car that is known around the world, which is a higher class of life-saving. Yeah, it's a world producer. But they offered Ukraine to buy it for 22,000 euros, 8,000 euros less than what we were "instigated" with you as the Chinese base of a Chinese producer who stopped on the front for a few months. Now I got a call from the 8th Company that saves people's lives, our boys, it's our body on the front that's commanding those brigades that don't have their cars or are broken. They're refusing to return the 17 cars that are now being repaired, the service that was hired by the Goddan factory. Because Bogdan doesn't want to pay for a guaranteed car and requires the state to pay 300,000 dollars once more for repairing cars that were on the front for a few months. Some of them do not have a passage of more than 2,000 miles [2,000 km].
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u101	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u102	I want to say that what we need now is to remember that war is coming. And those who abuse our boys' lives should sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u103	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u104	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to say a few words about the achievements, in the paws with which you and I are entering the new year. And one of these achievements is the $130 billion debt that the government has raised and everyone in Ukraine has to pay for it. When I hear the President coming back from the Eastern Partnership Summit and saying that he brought us a cherry on a regular loan, I ask, where are all the loans he's taking from this government? We don't see them, we don't see the economy. Yes, credits may be needed, but those loans that would be invested in the development and economic development of the state, which is what the Radical Party of Lalashka is always talking about. It's not the credits that you get, like a flea dog, every year more and more of them, and where people don't see them. I'll give you an example of where to put the money. The city of Uzhgorod, a city bordering the state, has developed a modern project for an Olympic center of water sports. Why is he so interesting and attractive? Because it's not very functional, it's still built on geothermal sources that allow it to be used very economically. What will this give the city? What will that do for the region? First of all, it's infrastructure development and it's not just sports infrastructure, it's also auxiliary infrastructure, it's roads, it's buildings and so on, it's new jobs, it's additional revenue to the budget. And given that this city is on the border, it's also an attraction for tourism, and these are also additional sources of the city's budget, these are investments that will work for the state and for the city for many, many years. And the main thing is that this will enable people living in this city to engage in physical culture and sports in this region. First of all, those children who today need much attention from the State to show, not in words, but in the fact that it cares about children, about people, about their families living in the State. What do you think the government doesn't understand where to put the money? What's worse than the government in Uzhgrad? No, they're not stupider, but they don't care, it's not oil, it's not gas, it's not electricity, it's not money. But these are dividends that are invested in healing people much more expensive than the equipment that the authorities are involved in. But to understand that, you have to see 5 by 10 for 15 years, which is going to be with the state. And when they're in government, so to speak, timekeepers, they'll never do that. So the Radical Party faction Laska claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u105	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u106	One of the priorities of our work will be a healthy, successful and enlightened nation, a successful country, and a country built for a successful future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u107	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the national MP Borislav Berezu. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u108	I want to thank Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich for the fact that from the faction of Fatherland that gave me this word. Because he understands that the question that I'm about to raise is very important for both the Chinese and all the guests in the capital. You know, there's someone who runs the city, but who runs the city, not in the interest of the Chinese, but in his personal interests. I want to talk about the Voice Park, which is systematically being destroyed. This is the greatest park in Kiev, which, back in the days of Yushchenka, had a republican significance, but now we see that it is systematically destroyed. For example, there's the Bulls Fair, which is cut out to make autofills and other buildings appear. What's going on? Ecologists say it's impossible to do this, it's a national park, it needs to be protected. Systemic activists say it's impossible to do this because it violates the law. Everyone's saying the same thing. The D.A. says it's a crime. But Kiev City Administration says no, no, it's okay, it's okay, and it's on the side of the developer. Kyivgreenbud, which should protect green plantings, says we don't see any disturbances. And when the age trees are cut down, and there's going to be a gas station there, the representatives of Kyivzelenbud say that's in the law. What law, they don't say. Moreover, when a representative of a constructionist in a court of law points out that there was a practice in general before when we could have any decision through a court of law, but unfortunately there is no such practice now, we understand how such decisions came about. Moreover, we realize that now again someone wants to press charges through a court of law. But the presence of activists, representatives of the Ministry of Ecology, I am very grateful to Mr. Semerak, who controls this process, representatives of the MPs, such as Igor Lucenko, as well as I, representatives of others, Mr. Tarasyuk, who controls this situation, thus making the court stand on the side of the law, not the outsider. So I want to ask the Supreme Council to give the MPs a closer look at what's going on in Kiev. Because there will be no garden left in Kiev for a few more years, but there will be only gas stations, buildings, parks, and things that can be earned by KMDA officials. But I think that in Kiev, you have to do everything you can to make sure that the Chinese are in good condition and comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u110	ValeriaZarenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. The Radical Party team supported the law on the release of Donbas unanimously. The return of Donbas and the protection of his Ukrainian citizens is our unbreakable position. Our team is confident that Donbas's Act of Deploupment is overwhelming. It is he who shows the world our consolidated position on the recognition of war by war and occupation by occupation. The Radical Party team has repeatedly insisted that there are two ways to achieve peace in Ukraine: the way to defeat and the way to victory. We choose the path of victory! [[Applause]] Because of the involvement of international organizations, humanitarian missions, but the main thing is the establishment of peacekeepers on the interstate, I emphasize, interstate borders. We are confident that, under such conditions, the war on Donbassa will be stopped within a month. We urge the authorities to do so for those who have been forced to leave their homes and their previous lives in occupied territories and for those who have not been able to leave and remain hostage in occupied territory. They are all Ukrainian citizens. We urge the authorities to make every possible and impossible effort to free these people and urge them to do their primary duty and protect Ukrainian citizens, restore territorial integrity, and restore peace to Ukraine. Let Ukraine be peaceful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u111	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Tetjan Ostrichov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u112	Tetjana Ostrova, Self-help faction. The session ends today, and so I want to talk to you about what we have done for business development, or whether the legislator has put in place those requirements that our entrepreneurs are primarily expecting to start up the real economy, not to set the artificial indicators that the government is setting. When I spoke to entrepreneurs who put the main requirements of business in power, it was sad to say that the main ones, they said, did not interfere. They should not be prevented from developing contrary to, in fact, State policy, and not because of it. If we analyze what the Supreme Council did in 2014, for example, we accepted a tax compromise. In 2015, the EU was reduced. In 2016 a single register of public VAT claims was introduced. On the other hand, 2017 remembered entrepreneurs, especially small and medium - size businesses, by blocking their tax returns and removing their circulation costs. Finally, this problem was solved in effect on January 1, 2018. However, we are now getting information that the government is preparing a draft decision on a new blocking order and that in fact there is a complete copy of all the criteria for the so-called risk of operations that were at the disposal of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, we urge the government to approach this decision with great discretion. First of all, entrepreneurs point out that there is a need to stop the pressure on business. You have to stop that disgraceful practice where, without asking any questions, without getting any previous information, they're running with "mask-shows," they're running with searches. The last case is a search at Kievstar. I explained to this company, and even before the search for documents, no questions were sent. Or we'll get information from the media that, for example, we have before the new year of the U.S.S.S.U. is looking at customs among tissue importers looking for those who committed treason. Should the U.S. Customs and entrepreneurship of external economic activities be carried out at all? Therefore, it is only the elimination of all economic units of the BSB, the Attorney General's Office, the National Police and their replacement by the sole body of financial investigation with an analytical approach, risk-oriented methods of combating economic crime, which will not run with the "show masks" before even sending this enterprise a request. The bill has been in Parliament for two years. You don't want to consider the Self-Help Bill on Financial Police, please call on the government to draft a bill about the Financial Investigations Service stuck somewhere between the government and the National Reform Board. The second position that will also start our economy. Cancel the income tax and replace it with a tax on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u113	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u114	replace it with a tax on the resulting capital. Estonia, which did so in 2000, increased its GDP five times in five years. That's why we call.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u116	Christ Gets Baptized! In fact, Law 7163 was adopted yesterday, the so - called Law on the Deoccupation of Donbass. One of the deputies allowed us to address our faction to the boys who fought in disgrace. By saying that we are the gravel of the Russian Federation, the aggressor country. I want to tell the deputy that the guys who were sitting there went straight from Midan to fight the not-so-called terrorists, not the so-called LNRs, DNRs, but to fight the Russian Federation and its aggression. Killed by the bullets of this country, by the aggressor countries, wounded by the gun of this aggressor country, taken captive, I personally, he sits with Jura Timoshenko my brother, we personally captured Russian officers. So to say that we're fighting a country with so-called Republics of LNR, DNR, for me there are no gravel, these are the structural units of the Russian Federation, an army of the Russian Federation that invades our country that is fighting East Crimea and we're fighting it. So the reference to 141 amendments is so called why didn't they recognize LNR, DNR, as terrorist organizations? I'll just tell you because they don't exist, there's the Russian Federation, there are their mercenaries and there are structural units in Ukraine that help them and we're fighting against. The other one. We think that all this stuff that's been done in the east of the country, all the destruction, the death of our boys, the girls, it's all the responsibility of the Russian Federation. This is not a civil war, if we recognize that this is LNR, DNR, which means that our nation will be compensated for all of this, in accordance with article 19 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, and this is all to be compensated by the Russian Federation, it's an aggressor, it's all done and it's done. And I, as mayor of the 119th constituency, am now a very strong political force that was once there in the leaders and that lost me in the elections that went through, telling me that I am the man who fought, the man who was wounded, did not support this amendment. I voted in favour of this law in contrast to this political force, which did not support this law, please look.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u117	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Leonid Hamtz.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front, group of Eurooptimists. In the first word, I would like to thank Hennady Kryosha for giving me the opportunity to speak out of this rostrum and to tell you, dear Ukrainians, about the situation that took place this week's vote in favour of the Anti-Corruption Court. In fact, this week we were able to adopt this bill, so necessary to fight corruption on the basis. If we voted on Tuesday for inclusion in the agenda, on Wednesday our committee could consider it and recommend it on Thursday to vote on the basis of the first reading. But it happened just like it did. To remind you, on Tuesday, the number of votes was not enough to include this bill in the agenda. As they were not enough on Thursday, yesterday, when three times we put the matter to a vote. This means that this week our committee will not meet to consider this bill. And this bill on the establishment of an anti-corruption court is passed on to the next session. There, thank God, it will be included automatically, and that means not to avoid this Parliament's consideration of the Anti-Corruption Court bill. Why did this happen, where it seemed, for the bill that we were required by the International Monetary Fund, which we are required by the European Union, which requires us the Ukrainian people to see an effective fight against corruption, with the results of the fight against corruption. Why did the Ukrainian Parliament not find the required number of votes? The answer is simple: the corrupters who were, the corrupters who were, the ones who dream of being the corrupt ones who will get to the food market, don't want to create the Anti-Corruption Court. They will resist with all their might that this Anticorruption Court will work in our country. So, dear Ukrainians, without your help Parliament will fail, we need the support of society next sessional week, and the media, and every voter has to go to his national deputy, via Facebook, by letter, to come to his reception and ask if he plans to be, first of all, in a session of working time, and second of all, whether he plans to vote for the Anti-Corruption Court, which we all have so long dreamed of getting in this country. This is the Anticorruption Court, for which 300 votes of this Parliament in their own time were signed in the Coalition Agreement when they signed their signatures. It is only in Parliament today that these people are willing to fulfill the promise they have made. So two weeks from now, Parliament will answer the question whether it is ready, at least in the first reading, to go to the Anti-Corruption Court Bill. And we have a huge road ahead for this law to eventually fully meet the requirements of the Venice Commission, the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u119	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u120	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I would like to address today's authorities with the words of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk: "If you knew, panics, when people cry living, you wouldn't create an elegy." We often, every day, hear sweet elegies from today’s power, and at this time, millions of Ukrainians without a job, millions of Ukrainians, working, receiving pitiful wages for which they cannot survive, millions of Ukrainians are looking for a better fate abroad. We now have the highest unemployment peak in 27 years of independence, worse than in the '90s. What would help to remedy this situation? State protection of the national manufacturer, first of all. State support for small and medium-sized businesses. What do we see? We see the exact opposite of the story: with the hands of the State Service on the work that Mr. RomanCherneg is running, a racket is actually legalized when entrepreneurs all over the country, I have dozens of appeals, I'm being beaten. Let me give you a simple example. The Chief of State in the Plains region of Jury the Final has not given any permission at all to enterprises that refuse to be tested at their expert technical center, even though there are hundreds of experts who can provide an expert evaluation. And I was approached by a professional federation, and these people are also taking a piece of bread, and for just one list of documents that they're supposed to give, they're demanding 3,000 dollars from entrepreneurs. To give them a list of the documents they have to give, they have to pay, the person who has one bar in the market, 3,000 bracelets, is it on his head at all? No, it's not. But this is what power is now. We have a different position. The Radical Party's position is state protection of the national producer, state protection of business and, accordingly, economic development, job creation and high wages. At the time. [[Applause]] While the authorities are robbing the hands of Derjpraci, first of all, entrepreneurs in racketeering, for example, I have a call from the Chernivs, they don't give any permission to entrepreneurs if they don't write -- that form of corruption -- out of dozens of profile magazines! This is simply impossible to imagine in a normal democratic country. Instead, our team, protecting entrepreneurs, our leader, Oleg Lazko, Parliament's best economist, Victor Halasyuk, and our entire team, has achieved a number of laws for business development: it's a ban on the export of roundwood, it's a reduction in the only social contribution, it's a historic bill called "Buy Ukrainian," which is a subsidiary of puppets, Moscow, Washington and Brussels, and the rest of the liberal whorehouses run by the embassy. [[Applause]] Wants to cancel; it's a ban on the export of scrap metal, it's a two-year delay on the import equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u121	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u122	It's the Law on the Creation of an Export Credit Agency, we're for business, we're for job creation, and the authorities are against it! Compare and draw conclusions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u123	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Levchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u124	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. From this rostrum over the last week, as well as on many TV channels, representatives of the ruling oligarchic kleptocracy make many high-level phrases about their seeming desire to fight Russian aggression, about their support for our military heroes. And even today there have been such performances. It's their empty talk. Because, in fact, when they say it, they vote in favour of continuing the occupation trade, they vote in favour of banning our military "use weapons without the utmost necessity" -- quote, they refuse to include in the relevant legislation specific dates of the beginning of occupation, in order to actually be held accountable by this occupier, they don't do all that, but they talk a lot. And, you know, the big point here is about protecting our heroes, is how most of these oligarchic people treat volunteers. The fact is, the fighters of the volunteer battalions who didn't continue to fight in the Ukrainian Armed Forces later, and who remained the fighters of the volunteer battalions exclusively, and that's a thousand people, are the people who went, by the way, first to the war, as some have said here, from Maidan, so they still don't have the opportunity to get proper recognition from the state, to gain the status of a participant in the fighting. And it's not just a matter of so much social benefits to them, but it's also very important, especially when people are injured, especially when people are in a difficult position, it's a question of recognition by the State of this status, it's a matter of respect by the State of Ukraine for those who protect it. So there were a lot of volunteers and volunteers -- and we worked together on a bill and we registered for the recognition of volunteers as participants in hostilities, their social and legal status (number 7190), we registered this bill on October 10, 2017. And what do you think, dear Ukrainian people? Maybe this room that tells so much about how they support heroes, maybe they've considered this bill, maybe the decision committee has taken some decision on it? No, the Social Policy Committee under the chairmanship of Mr. Tretlyakov sabotages the consideration of this bill, refuses to put it on the table, and is said to be because they do not like the authors. So today, I have officially addressed Mr. Parubia, the Head of the Supreme Council, asking for confirmation of my appeal yesterday, in accordance with part three of article 96 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 days. Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u125	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u126	To ensure that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, this bill is considered in the session hall for 15 days, this is a direct norm of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If it's a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u127	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Lubinian People's Deputy. People's Lubinian MP, it's your time to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, I would like to highlight from this high rostrum the problem that exists in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. I want to thank my colleagues for the bill, so-called Donbas reintegration. This is the right decision, believe me, as a person representing the Donetsk region. People have been waiting for this. But what I want to remind you is that in 2014, all of these events in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk began to occur, primarily because there was this fifth column. And there's a fifth column right now. Unfortunately, we have the fourth year of war, we have a bright representative of Russian peace, the mayor of Dobropil in the Donetsk region. This person personally organized a referendum, he now calls the Ukrainian flag a slap, he holds sessions exclusively and in principle in Russian, he doesn't want to start a session with a "minute of silence" behind the dead heroes of the ATO. There are countless appeals, parliamentary requests to the prosecutor's office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police, there is no response. I have great respect for all the officers who protect our Ukraine. I have great respect for the Ukrainian Security Service, but the next time I say, as long as there are measures of the city of Dobropila that do everything to undermine the stability of our Ukrainian authorities in the territory of Donetské, Lugansk, we may have a repetition in 2014. So on the other hand, I ask everyone to support our struggle so that they do not remain or hold election positions. And I want to say more. Now we have the fourth year of war. But I call on the national MPs: on these holidays or on vacations, find time, come to the front and support our boys who are standing on the front page, just thank them, give them gifts and just remind them what we're here in Kiev, we know what they're doing for us, they're doing a great feat. Thank you to all the defenders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Next on the record, this is Zalitsztek, please, Svetlana. And, colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u130	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media, first and foremost welcome everyone with a bright holiday, but the subject that I would like to raise is unfortunately not festive. I want to use this talk to draw attention to one violent case of business abuse. It's absolutely no secret that in the last 3-4 years completely savage invasions of IT businesses have actually become a visit to our law enforcement agencies. And it's not recorded by our businessmen that it's very often an attempt at blackmailing or taking under what's called a roof one business or another. For. It is very evident that in the last six months of 2017, according to the business-ombudsman's report, business complaints have increased by 60 percent. One of these companies is youControl, which has already been written about by the media. Nine months ago, in their offices, a search was carried out allegedly on the grounds that there was a Russian trace. Although later this formulation was certainly changed because there is no evidence that there is any trace of the Russian Federation, of course they have not found. Nevertheless, the servers were arrested, the money was taken. The U.S.S.A. is now requesting the court to classify this as an illegal sale of special technical means of receiving information. But journalists also know very well that youControl is an analytical platform that allows people to use completely public sources to gather information and verify it, which has helped investigate many devices using offshors or "plums". This, from my point of view, is the reason why we're coming to this company right now. I want to mention separately that this company, YouControl, has won three judicial offices. The court has made a commitment to pay off the money, to hand over the servers, but the BSS, in response to an official request, has reported that these decisions have not been reached by the courts. This is just one example of how business is being bullied. More recently, this persecution has continued. The series of courts began on December 29, under the new year, when journalists or activists were unable to gather, unfortunately. Today, this abuse continues. And I ask, Mr. Chairman, to consider my statement an official request to Vasil Gretzak to stop pressure on this company and to comply with the previous court decision. I'm also addressing Mr. Kubi, the Prime Minister's first deputy, to pay attention to and control the investigation of this particular case of a hit on the IT business that brings money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u131	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u132	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, are running out of time for performances. 13 years old. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall, join in the closing of the seventh session of the Supreme Council on the eighth call. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. And I also ask the Cabinet to take up their jobs. Today, the closing session coincided with the great Christian festival, and unfortunately not everyone can be present in the hall. But I'm asking all of the colleagues who are having the discussions, who are in the towers, to go into the hall and take jobs. And I'm asking the Cabinet to take up their jobs as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is invited to attend. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we are concluding the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call and, traditionally, we are summarizing the work of this session. It was complex, like all the sessions of our call to the Supreme Council, but, at the same time, it was a productive work for all of us, the whole hall. When we made our plans early in the year, I announced them about the reforms that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is planning to adopt, many did not believe that this was possible. But, nevertheless, in fact, all the reforms we planned were adopted in this Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is also a judicial reform, a continuation of judicial reform, the longest bill in the history of modern Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which we have considered for three weeks. This is an educational reform that not only brings Ukrainian education closer to European standards, but this law and this reform have done one more fundamental thing: the protection of Ukrainian state language during education. [[Applause]] And although the debate has gained not only social significance, but also international significance, and we have had a long discussion with the Venice Commission, I want to thank all the factions and MPs that, thanks to the firm, common, unified position of all the national deputies and committees, we have been able to stand down and stand down for the 7th article of the Education Act. We adopted a medical reform that caused much discussion, but nevertheless we were able to find a consolidated position in the room. And now we're waiting for medical reform. A pension reform that was our ambition to raise pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. And also a difficult reform, which also had a lot of discussions in the room, but we were able to work together to make a positive decision and adopt a pension reform, and there will be a dynamic of increasing pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. We also have to celebrate one important thing in this session is the preparation of the state budget. We've put an ambitious plan together with the government. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, together with the government, we have set up an ambitious plan for us to go through the terms provided for by law and be able to accept the budget in time. There were heated debates on the committees, but this year for the first time in many years, not under the tree, but we were able to adopt the bill long before the new year, which we gave a good signal to both the Ukrainian community and our foreign partners, and most importantly, we showed the concerted work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, we have begun electoral reform. Few believed that it was possible. But in our first reading, we were able to adopt the Electoral Codex, which harmonizes the election system at all levels. We are now preparing for the committee, and this spring we will come to the end of electoral reform. I think this is one of our ambitious plans for the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Statistics aren't really that important, because many of the laws that we passed were very large, very systemic. And I remind you, some of them we've been looking at for a few weeks, a few days. However, I would like to point out some statistics. We discussed 197 issues in this session and made 94 decisions, including 62 laws adopted in general, 16 decrees adopted in general, and 16 laws we voted in the first reading. Among them, of course, the laws on the security of our country, the very important laws on the social protection of Ukrainian military personnel, are the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, in which we strengthen social protection not only for ATO soldiers, but also for participants in the Dignity Revolution. This is also the provision of housing for military personnel and members of the family of military personnel. An important block in the development of the economy, industry and the support of the domestic enterprise. I will remind you of the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, the amendment of some Ukrainian legislation on the facilitation of business, and the very important and resonant Act on the enforcement of the rights of members of criminal conduct. And by this law, we have protected the Ukrainian business from the pressure of the force. Very important laws in the field of energy, among them, I want to mention: the National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations, the Housing and Utilities Act, the amendment to the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act, the order in which natural gas consumers are set up. I'd like to define the laws that are aimed at the development of technology, the security of our state, this is a very important cybersecurity law. You remember what the discussion was like in the hall, but we were able to make a two-pronged decision and adopt that law. It's also the Law on Electronic Trust Services, which many of our partners consider to be one of the most fundamental during this session. It is very important to remind us of the Law – amending Ukraine's legislation on temporary language permits in the ATO and border areas of Ukraine, which we have provided for Ukrainian television channels in areas that are unfortunately under the occupation of a Russian aggressor today. I'd like to highlight one more important topic, which is the support of a Ukrainian cinematographer. We've actually been able to renaissance the Ukrainian film since Mikolaychuk's time, and Paradjanova was able to recreate the Ukrainian film. And thanks to the support of both the Supreme Council and the government, we're spending in 2017. 93 Ukrainian films were introduced and 120 were made the following year, and 120 new Ukrainian films were produced. For the first time in the history of Ukraine this year, we introduced support for the Ukrainian series. A whole block of laws that are very important, we have adopted to protect women, mothers and children, among them I would like to celebrate the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence. And I'm also going to celebrate what has marked the whole society: the very important decision we have to make on the holiday of the holiday of the Western Christians, and this has been highly appreciated by our society. But at the same time, we changed our weekends and set up a day of work. I think it's also perhaps not so resonant, but very important for the restoration of justice, the Law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to point out what important international arrangements have taken place during this session. This is the sixth session of the EU - Eastern European Parliamentary Assembly, Eurostat. I would also like to thank the committee, the committees and the organizers for this meeting, as well as the 50th Annual Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization (PACHES). Ukraine presided this year and accepted the fiftieth anniversary session. There was also a 100th anniversary ceremony under the dome of our Hall, and it was also an important and resonant action by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The last week of our session was unforgivable. We have also set up a very ambitious plan, but we have been able to adopt the Law on Deposition despite very intense discussions. And this law has a symbolic meaning that defines the Russian Federation as an aggressor and therefore has an international impact on Russia. We also adopted the Privatization Act, which is not only of economic importance, but, to my deep conviction, it is a very important anticorruption law in areas where corruption remains in Ukraine today, and despite discussion, we were able to unite and make these decisions. I want, colleagues, to thank all the people's deputies, all the factions, because all the factions were involved in the preparation of those bills. I would like to thank the heads of factions for their deep understanding of responsibility when, at the most difficult moments, the heads of factions were able to make responsible decisions to unite the hall. I would like to thank the heads of the committees who have been very professional in drafting the bills that apply to their spheres, insist that their bills appear and be in order of the day. And I want to thank the government, Prime Minister of Ukraine VolodymyrGroysman and all members of the government, colleagues, thank you for the cooperation you have shown in this session, thank you to the government. [[Applause]] Thank you. Undoubtedly, success and positive decisions have been ensured by the work in the hall, but to a large extent by working together with the government, through every reform of the co-operation of the committee and ministers who worked together in the working groups, we have been able to make positive decisions through this cooperation. We close this session, the next eight sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin in two weeks. In the meantime, we need to prepare a number of drafts, and I would like to briefly point out which I think should be the important directions of our work. Undoubtedly, the key issue of the Ukrainian Supreme Council should be security and defence. Yesterday at the National Security and Defence Council, we approved a bill on Ukraine's national security, a large-scale system bill, which is also important for the organisation of a security system in Ukraine, but is extremely important for the integration of Ukraine into NATO, which is a strategic and key, external political direction of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian Parliament. I am sure that we will be able to bring this law into the agenda quickly and effectively, to discuss and adopt it. We must also adopt a number of bills necessary for the implementation of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union. We have already agreed with the Prime Minister on the creation of a joint working group that we are a package of drafts that are ours and obligations, we have been able to put together an annual plan, we have been able to approve and implement in stages during each plenary session. As I said, we must complete the electoral reform. Colleagues, and we must consider the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Like all the laws we passed in judicial reform, we asked for the conclusions of the Venice Commission and took these conclusions into account. And, I'm sure, and this time, in favour of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, we should take into account all the conclusions and recommendations of the Venice Commission. After all, we were initiators of submission and request for their conclusions. And we need to concentrate on this law being passed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And of course, we have a lot of human resources debt, friends. This is the composition of the Central Electoral Commission, this question is already out of date. As far as I know, a new submission by the President of Ukraine is due in the near future, and I will immediately put it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But it's also the National Bank, it's the National Court of Auditors, it's the Human Rights Commissioner, it's these personnel issues that we should consider at the next session. But most importantly, colleagues, most importantly not statistics, and not even a list of laws, the most important thing is that we showed a working parliament at this session. We know what efforts have been made by the northern neighbour to balance the situation in the country. And we know what attempts have been made to balance the situation in this Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thanks to the wisdom of every deputy, thanks to the wisdom of all factions, we have not allowed any storms to balance the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine was and remains an island of stability. The Supreme Council, the stable Supreme Council, is a stable and Ukrainian society. Many criticisms, sometimes fair, but we have to remember our responsibility, especially in the 100th anniversary of the restoration of Ukrainian statehood. And that's why I believe that in the next session we're going to have the same level of responsibility and we're going to show the same effective and effective work. I want to thank all the people's deputies again, and I want to thank all the factions, the government, thank the President for his very close and close cooperation and wish him a successful job in the next session. And I want to wish us all victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u136	Honorable National Deputies, according to the approved calendar plan, are scheduled for the eighth session. seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The eighth session will begin its work on February 6, and the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation will conclude its work. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u137	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-19-m0.u138	Thank you. [[Applause]] And I remind you, next week, committee work. Thank you, my friends.
