ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u1	Break time is over. People's deputies please come into the hall and prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that we're still looking at the intellectual property block. We are continuing our consideration of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual (industrial) property. A reporter and a co-reporter spoke before the break, and after the break, statements by representatives of the MPs and then by the national deputies would begin. We're going to go out in 20 to 25 minutes, and I'm asking everyone to mobilize the people's deputies at the moment, so that we can make a positive decision. So please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for the evening session. Please. [[16:02:17]] There are 368 national deputies registered. We were having lunch. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We kept records of factions before lunch. Then there were two factions, People's Front and Self-Help. But I emphasize if other factions intend to speak in conversation, just come up to me and let me know. And I'll give you my word that all the factions will have the opportunity to speak. From the People's Front, who will be speaking from the People's Front? From Self-Help, Opanasenko. Welcome to the self-help presentation of Opanasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! I would like to go back to the question that I directly asked the Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade. The law that we are considering with you was primarily aimed at solving two issues. About cleaning up our legislation of such a disgraceful, shameful phenomenon as "patent trolling" and solving the issue of recognition, what would the regime for the exhaustion of trademarks work in Ukraine? I would like to say that right now we have a lot of tools at the level of customs legislation. In fact, such a quasinational principle of the exhaustion of trade marks has been established. That is, it was supported by a majority in expert circles, entrepreneurs there, and so on. And there's a real structure that we, our Supreme Council, speak for. Our Supreme Council stands for the monopolies of large companies, for the restrictions on imports of large prices that will be paid by consumers of products, goods and services that are directly imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, or we will still encourage the creation of competitive conditions, competition between importers, other manufacturers or service providers, which will make them more effective and will be able to provide more quality services at a lower price. I'm always like that. When I live simply as a Ukrainian citizen, I was always surprised to see why much of the goods and technology we have in Ukraine is much more expensive, there are 20, 30, sometimes 50 percent, than in countries around us, for example, Poland and other countries. This is due to the very customs barriers that exist in our legislation that allow for the minimization of competition in this segment. So our faction, directly the Self-Help faction, has always advocated creating a level playing field for business, creating competitive conditions and creating. Enhancing business efficiency. We are in favour of returning directly to the law of the international standard, the international principle of the exhaustion of trade marks. It's a stenographer's report that it's paragraph 11. It is necessary for us to leave in the text of the law that we will now adopt in the first reading the phrase that applies directly to the article. which would be included in article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights to Signs of Goods and Services, must be left "in the territory of any country of the world." Can I have 10 more seconds? Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u3	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u4	Position of the Self-Help faction: we will vote in the first reading for this bill only if the text preserves and records the international principle of the exhaustion of trade marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u5	Thank you. I turn to factions: Are there factions that want to speak from factions, or can we move on to the performances of the national MPs? There are no wantrs of factions. Therefore, I would like to ask the members of the national parliament to prepare for the recording of the speeches by the national deputies. Thus, 15 minutes are allowed to speak by the national deputies. Please hold the recording. Please. Poultry Victoria Yuriovna. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I am delighted that we have finally moved on to intellectual property issues in this Parliament for the fourth year of our work. But at the same time, I want to say that I'm sorry that because the MPs weren't in the hall, the previous bill was rejected, because I think there was a basis on which we could work, and if we made amendments to the second reading, we could go out on a quality product. As far as this bill is concerned, it would definitely need to be supported, because there are ideas that allow the owners of trademarks to protect them, i.e. those businesses that develop their products that develop their activities, make up their brands, and obviously these brands have protected. Similarly, this bill is designed to protect the intellectual property rights of our inventors, who, after obtaining patents, also have the right to protect their intellectual work. But this bill does have harmful positions that apply exactly to the limitation of ownership rights. The rights of trademark owners. And I think they have to be excluded during this vote. In particular, it's about a position that restricts the owners of any person to charge illegal trademarks if a five-year term expires after a specific certificate has been obtained by the owner. This means that, for example, today, if you type in a Google domain like "starbucks.ua," you'll see that instead of all the known companies there is a dating site. And apparently, when a suitable company enters Ukraine, it is likely that it will want to defend its rights. In order to protect her, because the sign-in statement for Starbucks has already been registered and issued to a natural person. Obviously, the company would have to go to court and defend its rights. But because of the standards contained in this bill, if the five-year deadline comes up after the appropriate testimony is given, the company will no longer be able to go to trial. Moreover, there is a position that, if the owner of a brand already registered wishes to declare a trade mark invalid in court that violates his right, he must first prove that he is using his brand during a specific period, and only then will he have the right to appeal to the offender for a violation of his rights. It's an absolute nonsense. This deprives in fact subjects of the right to appeal to a court, and such positions must be excluded. That's why the Ministry of Economics and I made specific proposals. I hope they'll be counted by the deputies today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Semenach and Babak’s national deputies give the floor to Sissyenko Irina. So please include 6 minutes for the performance. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u8	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. I would like to point out that this bill, which the government has put forward, is one that reflects the content and substance of the Treaty with the European Union, the TRIPS International Agreement, and most importantly, it aims to fight in Ukraine with a phenomenon such as patent trolling. So there's an understanding of what it is. Unfortunately, in Ukraine a large number of people have recently begun to abuse intellectual property rights and register, to obtain patents on industrial samples, on useful models, on already widely known things. For example, there is a patented appearance of glass, a body of cars, a wheel, that is, any other things that are known long ago in the world do not have that brand of novelty, but at the same time, under the existing legislation, it is still possible to obtain legal protection. What happens next? Further, such inadvertents place their patents in the register of the Ukrainian Customs Service and thus ban imports into Ukraine of different types of goods, and this is indeed a huge obstacle to the large number of producers who import their goods into Ukraine. So the fight against patent trolling is still the basis and content of this bill. I would also like to highlight the additional important things that have been formed by this bill. This is an opportunity to challenge the patent rights of unscrupulous owners not only because of a court decision, as is the case in the current Ukrainian legislation, but also through administrative action. Similarly, this rule is an effective norm in European legislation when the Appeals Chamber of the State Department can, by its decision, examine all such evidence and resolve the issue, cancel, and revoke the rights of unscrupulous patent holders of intellectual property. And the third important part of this bill, why this bill needs to be adopted, is very important. This bill creates the possibility of obtaining damage to the owners of the goods. That is, if the goods were smuggled into the State Register of Customs, the goods were spread abroad, according to which the owners of the goods suffered damages, paying for their stay in the customs territory of Ukraine, as well as other damage suffered by the owners of a large number of goods that become hostages of the patent trolling. It all forms an opportunity to receive wrong registrations, from patent trolling, material damage for the benefit of conscientious buyers, trademark owners, owners of inventions, owners of industrial specimens. Therefore, this bill is one that forms essentially legislative changes that have existed for many years in European states. And it is extremely important that today the number of members of the national MPs who are in this room should be sufficient for us to adopt this bill in the first reading, to prepare it as quickly as possible, to prepare it for the second reading and to do everything possible to make this bill a law of Ukraine. The Self-Help Unit will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u9	Thank you very much. Wesley's Natalia Vasilovna is invited to the floor. Hey, tough guy. Wait a minute! It's a pantyhose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u10	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u11	Okay. He's handing over Halasyuk. Okay. You can do without the microphone. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! The Radical Party team supports this very important bill. In general, the protection of intellectual property rights is one of the priorities if we want to build an intellectual economy, an economy of production and an economy of innovation in Ukraine, rather than the shameful, outdated economy of raw exports and people's donations around the world that exists today. Clearly, then, this law must be passed. Moreover, it should be accepted by the committee itself, which is fundamentally important. I emphasize under the transcript that the Radical Party team is essentially insisting on the preservation of the bill, as it now provides, of the international principle of exhaustion of trade marks rights for Ukraine, because this principle will first allow for the protection of Ukrainian producers and ensure that modern products can be properly produced and, on the other hand, allow consumers to lose their prices. Some countries in the world have made such a mistake and have deviated from that principle. For example, Georgia made such a mistake. I've already heard about this room today, there's a proposal for a rejection of an international principle, so in Georgia this regime has been working for some time, sold by lobbyists from international corporations. After the government analyzed the effects, it was canceled. And after it was canceled, they went back to the international principle that the Radical Party team insisted on, and then the price went down from 30 percent to 70 percent, so just think about the technology, the auto parts, and the medicine. Clearly, then, this law will be passed. Of course, maintaining the international principle as provided by the Committee of Profiles does not stop there. Because, of course, it's important to protect intellectual property, but it's important for investors to be stable. So we need to carry out radical economic reforms in the country, introduce strong economic investment incentives through the adoption of the Industrial Parks Act, finally so that the government can create an Export Credit Agency. More than a year they have passed the law that you and I have passed in this room. And this is a waste of credit at a time, not a percentage, for Ukrainian manufacturers of finished products. The adoption of an immediate adoption agreed upon by the Committee on Industrial Policy and the Business of the Law. The Free Networking Bill (6671) is a removal of barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy. Look, today is the amount of foreign direct investment inflows of $2 billion a year. At this rate, we will catch up with Poland in 100 years if Poland waits, standing still. Clearly, this will not happen, we need to act ahead. Therefore, to adopt an industrial reform package and adopt this law to protect intellectual property rights with an international principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u13	Thank you. So, for the national MPs, all those who wanted to speak? We can go to the closing statement, first the deputy minister, then the co-rapporteur. That means in six minutes, after two reports, we'll move on to making a decision. That's why I'm asking all the heads of factions, and also the members of the faction committee, and the education committee, and the committee of European integration, because this law is Euro-integration, to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. In five minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I now invite you to the closing statement of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, it is really very important today to adopt this bill, which directly relates to "proprietary trolling." We all realize that what has not been done must be done, what has been done wrong must be improved. And unlike other bills, it's really an emergency. We have a lot to look forward to, both domestic and foreign. And the very main thesis, as one classic said, that the foundation of a strong state is a strong army, is a powerful patent authority. A strong army protects the border, and a strong patent authority protects the state’s total ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u15	Thank you. Once again, I would like to invite all the people's deputies into this room and I would like to emphasize that in three minutes we will be moving on to the decision-making process. But now Singerman Alexander Volodymyrovich in his speech, including the name of the amendments that can be compromised, which can unite the hall. So I ask that you listen carefully to the committee report and invite the deputies to the hall. I particularly urge the Euro-Integration Committee to invite all the deputies to the Hall. So the closing statement is in the discussion. And I'd like to invite you to the report of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the situation is very difficult in the sense that there are two opposite points of view that do not allow for the first reading. I'm just talking to common sense and I'm talking to authors who can block the adoption of the law, taking into account the number of national MPs that are here. So look, there's an offer like this. I'm going to read that amendment that agrees with Mert, with the People's Deputy Victoria the Birds. Then we vote. If we do not vote with this amendment, then there is a proposal to vote in the committee. The committee's editing takes into account, Mr. Victorore, exactly the suggestions on what the international principle applies. And that's why we're going to do, Andrija Volodymyrovich, there's an offer like this, I'm going to read it under the transcript. If this option does not work, then vote in the committee’s version and allow for the first reading. Between the first and the second readings, I very much hope that we will. I'm reading. Section I, paragraph 17, amend article 16, paragraph 6, to add a new paragraph 18 to the following content: “Use of a trade mark for a medicinal product introduced under this trade mark in the territory of any country of the world by the owner of the certificate or by its consent, provided that the holder of the certificate has no valid grounds to prohibit such use in connection with the further sale of the goods, including in the event of changes or deterioration of the status of the goods after entering it into civilian traffic”. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone completely, it's narrowed down, it's not even the first morning choice that caused this to not be accepted. So we can go into the second reading with this right and continue to work out the corresponding text. But if we're going to reject this law at all, we just have to understand the consequences. That means we're still going to support piracy, we're going to support patent trolling, and so on. So, dear colleagues, I am asking you to understand the position of the Committee on Science and Education and to vote in favour of the first reading. Thank you for understanding. Let's forget our own ambitions and vote for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u17	Thank you. So, as I understand it, at the suggestion of the committee, I'm voting on the proposal in the first reading with the amendments that Spiowakovsky made under the transcript. And we vote that way in the first reading, and then we make corrections between the first and the second readings, the ones that arise and where there are warnings. Yeah? Do you copy, colleagues? Don't worry about it. Yeah, you got it? With the amendments that Spiowakovsky read. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm going to put the first vote, the first vote with the amendments that Singerakovsky made under the transcript. Yes, Mr. Alexander? So the first vote would be based on the proposals made by the committee that Spiowakovsky made under the transcript. This will be the first vote. Please, we had a discussion, everyone. during the vote, take part in the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We have concluded our discussion and are moving on to making a decision. So you're ready, right? I am voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual (industrial) property (No. 5699), as amended by the transcript of the representative of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich, on the basis of his colleagues. Just for the basis. We can work on the second reading. Please vote and please support. We're voting on the committee's amendments. Please be supportive. Please vote. Stop it, stop the vote. Stop. The Committee on European Integration has come, and that gives a little bit of optimism. Please take your seats. So once again, 5699, as amended by Spiowakovsky's stenogram, is the basis. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[16:27:51]] For 135 Colleagues, now I'm going to make an offer: no wires that Sieowakovsky made. This was the position of the committee -- two votes. One minute, please, Singerkowski. Everyone please come into the hall, colleagues. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, one minute, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a big request, I'm asking the Supreme Council for the first time, let's stop the speculation! The committee did everything. The author is actually the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let's end these speculations and vote. Let's vote on the committee. There'll be a working group next. We don't work, we don't go to second reading. What's the point of giving this show now when some people are yelling, "Give me the green light," the others are "live" and so on. Let the committee, if we trust the Committee on Science and Education, let's vote in a consolidated manner and allow this bill to be finalized in a second reading. Otherwise it looks just rude, just like it does. I just don't want to say the arguments that one side wants to get the upper hand. Thank you all. Vote for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u19	Thank you. So now I'm voting on the committee's agenda, without the rights that Spiowakovsky read, in the committee's agenda. Understand? Is this proposal supported by everyone? Colleagues, supported? So I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual (industrial) property (5,699) as a basis for the Committee's drafting. Please vote. And please support the committee. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:30:09]] For 190 Not supported either. Colleagues, the next suggestion I can use is to return to the committee for work. Is this going to be supported by everyone? It's a committee to work on. Is it supported? So, colleagues, now I'm going to put an offer on the committee. Perhaps two positions that divided the hall will be able to unite the committee. So let us not lose the bill so that it is not rejected, let us unite around this proposal. You're in, right? Is everybody okay? Yes, to the committee for re-reading. And this is a compromise offer. And the committee will be able to have a professional discussion, and we will be able to make a positive decision accordingly. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It's a huge Euro-integration issue, and I'm sure we can't put it at risk. Let's go back to the committee, and the committee's working on it. So I am voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual (industrial) property (No. 5699) should be sent to the Committee for the preparation of the first reading. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Fellows, return to the hall. This is a united position. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:32:04]] For 203 Not all of them made it. We'll be right back. I'm asking you to include the factions now. Block of Peter Poshenko – 86, National Front – 58, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 13, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 3. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. It's a compromise position. It allows the committee to work for a long time; it enables it to have a professional discussion and to make a positive decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to go back to the vote for coming back to the committee. I'd like you to make the most of it. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Are you ready? So, Andrew Volodymyrovich, go back to work. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of draft Law 5699 to the proposal to refer him to the committee for a re-read. So please all take part in the vote and please support. Guys, get back to work. Go back to work. I would like to support the proposal to return to draft Law 5699. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. Every voice matters. [[16:34:11]] For 201 Guys, I'll put it back on. If there are no votes, this bill will also be rejected, and my hand will not shake. I don't understand why people argue and don't vote during the vote. I'm asking you to go back to work. And I'm voting on the final proposal provided for by the Rules. This will restore the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I think we're going to be united around this proposal. It's a final offer. If it is not supported, the bill will be rejected. So I am voting on a proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving intellectual property law (No. 5699) to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. Vote. [[16:35:52]] For 215 The factions, please. Does that make any sense, colleagues? Is that right? Then please don't leave the hall, colleague. And the factions' heads, do you even control the situation in your factions that now, in voting, people just leave the room? So I'm going to make a final offer. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. Members of the Committee on Education and members of the Committee on European Integration are invited to come to the Hall and prepare for the vote. Ready? So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual (industrial) property (5,699) should be sent to the committee for re-reading. The committee commits itself to working on and passing a harmonized bill to the Hall. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, I ask you all to support and participate in the vote. Vote! Please be supportive. There's a vote coming. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:37:48]] For 223 Three votes. We didn't make it. Oksana didn't make it. All right, I'll put my colleagues on the way back. Three votes is not enough. So, colleagues (I see the national MPs come in, please), I'm going to set up, now I'm going to have to go back and then I'm going to go back to the committee. Who's to go back to Bill 5699 and send him to the committee? First, for the return. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice matters. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:38:56]] For 215 Yes, there are fewer votes. Draft Law 5699 was rejected. I ask the committee to hold a meeting on this subject and prepare a new package of documents. So we adopted a package of intellectual property laws. Unfortunately, two were rejected because of the differences in the hall. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that when we were looking at the second reading block, we had reached the draft Law on Medical Devices (4074), but the rating vote showed that there was no support. And the committee asked him to put it back on the ratings vote. I ask you to prepare for voting. I will now place a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Medical Act (on access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices) on the rating vote (No. 4074). The head of the Committee, Ola the Mantis, asked us to put the ratings vote again so that, if there was any support, we would be able to move on to its consideration. Ready to vote? A medical bill that is agreed upon by both the committee and the ministry. And I ask you to participate in the rating vote. I'm betting on the rating vote on the draft Law on Medical Devices (4074). Please vote, please support the rating vote. Please. [[16:40:55]] For 222 I think we can go in, the ratings vote has shown a high potential. But, colleagues, here are two revisions of everything, the vote will take place in a few minutes. So I ask everyone to come to the hall, and in a few minutes there will be a vote on this very important bill. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report on the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (No. 4074). Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, this bill has been waiting for two years to decide its fate. Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (on access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices) (No. 4074), prepared by the Committee on Health Care for Second Reading. This bill was adopted on the first reading of November 2nd, 16th. The Act is aimed at harmonising the provisions of national legislation with the relevant provisions of Directive 2001/83 of the EU, in particular as regards ensuring public access to the results of clinical studies and clinical trials of medical devices. Each year, the Ministry of Health conducts more than 200 clinical trials. Over the past five years, the Ministry of Health has received over 100 million dollars, and the results of these studies should be accessible to the environment and the public. According to article 14 of the Information Act, information on the impact of goods on human life and health cannot be referred to information with limited access. At the same time, the current version of the Ukrainian Medical Services Act determines that all the information contained in the registration file is classified. Such an approach does not meet European requirements and does not guarantee citizens the right to access information that is of social importance and interest. The bill therefore proposes to clearly determine which information is open to the public, where and by whom it is placed. The bill received five proposals from the national deputies, including three, one of which was essentially rejected. The bill is initiated by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority without any notice. Before putting the bill to the vote, I propose the proposal that the Ministry of Health adopted the bill to increase the time-limits defined by the "Final Positions" bill for drafting the necessary amendments to the existing legislation from one month to six months. I'll read the offer under the transcript. In the first sentence of chapter III, paragraph 2, "Ending positions" replace the words "for one month" with the words "for six months" and beyond the text. Please support the committee's proposal and accept the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Let's go to the right. I'm going to read the ones that are rejected. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. All, two revisions, the other revisions were. It insists on the 2nd right, please, Irina Sisoyenko. Be careful when I read my last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I insist on my amendment, which refers to the fact that the results of clinical trials were not only public but also to clinical trials on the basis of which results have already been generated. Because we can understand that the result is essentially formed on one page by a text that clearly states whether or not the medicine is effective. And on the basis of these findings of expertise, these are materials. It is not clear in the material how many individuals have been tested successfully and not successful. So I insist that public information be that applies to all the materials of clinical trials. Only in this way will we really register only medical devices with proven clinical effectiveness. Because there are a lot of drugs that are not effective today, but they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u23	Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, as I understand it, is proposed that part of article 9 be made available in a new edition, according to which the central executive body, which ensures the implementation of public health policy, that is, the MOS of Ukraine, should ensure public access to all the materials of pre - clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices. It should be noted that this is obviously not the whole part of article 9 but only the final sentence of that part, for otherwise a valid rule will be repealed regarding the mandatory protection of information contained in the registration file and protected in accordance with legislation. With regard to public access to all pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of medical devices, it should be noted that these materials contain both confidential and commercial information that is subject to disclosure protection, such as personal data and information on the health status of those involved in clinical trials, only information about the results is available.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u25	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u26	Only information on the results of these trials and studies is available and should be made publicly available. Therefore, the number 2 issue of National MP Irina Sisoyenko is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u27	Thank you. But Mrs. Irina insists on voting. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of National MP Sisoyenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:47:43]] For 113 The decision is not taken. So we're done here and we're moving on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs and go into the hall, and we're moving to making a decision. The committee has really been preparing this bill for a long time, and compromise positions have been found, and it is therefore very important to support our committee, our colleagues. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Members of the committee and heads of factions are requested to mobilize a fellow MP. Please take up jobs, and we're moving on to making decisions. Fellows, return to the hall. Do you not vote? You're on time, aren't you? Andry Volodymyrovich, return to the vote, now the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (on access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices) (No. 4074) in the second reading and in general with the suggestions that the head of the committee, Olga Vadimovna, has made under the stenogram. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, vote, please support, vote. [[16:49:50]] For 247 The law is passed. And welcome to the committee with quality, effective work. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of residential buildings (No. 6424-d). And the authors are asking to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure, we vote. [[16:50:52]] For-142 I'm going to re-proposal a reduced procedure. I don't know what the logic is, we've got an hour of 10 and a big day ahead of us. I think it's right to support and quickly, effectively consider. I'll remind you, the next draft of the Physical Culture and Sports Act. Then there is the draft Law on Mountain and Highlands. We can get there if we work effectively, colleagues. Let's support the review of the reduced procedure of Law 6424-d. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:51:47]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development and ZKH Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, Bill 6424-d has been designed to define at the legislative level restrictions on the use of apartments in multi-housing dwellings not by destination, including offices, hotels and other temporary residences and to increase the responsibility for violations of legislation in the area indicated. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decided in 03.07.2018 to refer to our committee for a re-reading of the draft Ukrainian Housing Code and other legislative acts on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing (registration number 6424) introduced by the national deputies Gerasimov, Andriyevsky, Levchenk, Shinkovič, Kodola. The committee worked on the draft legislation in the shortest possible time. On 04.07.2018, the bill was registered at number 6424. The committee on the same day promptly discussed the bill and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. In the prepared edition for review in the re-first reading, partially taken into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the refined surface of the houses to which the law applies added a new paragraph on the non-proliferation of the law on non-residential premises – this is very important – in multiple apartment buildings of 16 and more floors, including the proposals of the national deputy Gerasimov. Please support the bill as a basis. I just want to clarify a very important detail that caused some discussion in our room last time. This bill does not prohibit the use of non-residential buildings located in the basement first, second, and upper, including the mannery floors of the apartment building. It's the narrow place that actually sparked some kind of discussion. The committee's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u30	All of it. The committee's asking for support on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Please give me a two-in-a-row, two-on-one, please. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u32	Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u33	Oline Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u34	Dear National Deputies, from the first days of this Parliament's work to the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and, in particular, to us, the deputies of the Self-Help Association, have been approached by a large number of people with problems of hostels in multi-housing homes. With housing reform, housing and utility, now that we're talking with you about the management of multi-family buildings, the merger of co-owners, we're seeing that the problem of hostels in multi-housing houses is getting worse. People feel that there is no influence on a neighbor who is operating a hostel where there can be 30 people a day who use common property in this house and who are actually hurting and violating the safety of other people in this house. So the time for complex housing and utility reforms has come and needs to be addressed on the subject of such activities as the work of hostels. This bill, however, we propose to support and make a substantial contribution to the second reading, because unfortunately, in the first edition, even the committee that worked with it, there were no changes to the Tourism Act, and there is no mention of what a hostel is. Whether it's a hotel business, or whether we're just really continuing to rent housing, and we're not regulating this activity in any way, which is damaging to the residents of the apartment house. Therefore, the Self-Help Association proposes to support the law as a basis, but in order not to change the rules, it is decided that the second reading will require amendments to the Tourism Act, which regulates the activities of hostels in Ukraine. Without that, unfortunately, standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u35	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u36	So, dear friends, let's vote yes, to settle the question of the existence of such activity as the activities of hostels, but we're going to need to make changes to the Tourism Act, which unfortunately is not foreseen here today. So we vote yes, and we also suggest that we allow the second reading to make changes to the Tourism Act and define hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u37	Thank you. From "Peter Poshenko's Block" Jurchishin Peter Vasilovich. Who will act? Gerasimov. He's handing over Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u38	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, we have spoken on several occasions in this room about this problem that really exists. But what I want to tell you right now is that there's been a lot of consultations with all the factions and groups, with a lot of national MPs. And we've done everything we can to solve the problem so that we don't in any way interfere with Ukrainian small business. So what I want to tell you right now is that the fuses that were set out in this law are even written in transitional positions, regardless of what the legislation would actually be. Therefore, it is a great request to assemble and support this bill in the first reading. We will also welcome all comments from all factions to second reading, because the law is excessive. And I can tell you right now that I've been approached by hundreds of people on the streets and they've been calling about us adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u39	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u40	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the law is controversial enough. On the one hand, everyone understands that there is a sacred right to private property, and you have the right to manage it as you think, but on the other hand, there are the rights of people living in multi-family homes who may similarly suffer from the way this private property is used. That's why when we consider this bill, we have to take into account all the issues that will not, on the one hand, allow us to abuse such a right, but, on the other hand, limit the right of owners. This reminds me of the problem in the early '90s, when housing privatization began in multiple apartment buildings, and at this point the basement and semi-dwelling premises had long been alienated from them, and those who lived in these houses had no right to receive income from what these premises had either been rented or sold. And there's a second, no less important, topic that's not in the agenda at all, that's what the "Paternity" faction insists on. In all the countries of the world, including the United States, the right to alienate housing for debts on municipal payments, if this is your only residence, is forbidden. We insist, and once again we remind ourselves that the relevant bill lies in Parliament, with catastrophic increases in prices on utility bills. This right has been misused. We ask you, Mr. Head, to ask this question immediately. It passed through the relevant committees. And once and for all to ban the alienation of housing for communal payments and debts, if this is the only residence of citizens. After this bill, the faction's thoughts split, we'll vote in free.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u41	Thank you. From the People's Front, Alexander Kodol. Will that be enough, Mr. Alexander, one minute? One minute. Then Lechchenko – one minute. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Please, Alexander Kodol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u42	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. As co-author of this bill, I would like to say that, indeed, the problem of using apartments not according to its purpose today has become very widespread, especially in the capital city, in large cities. And the main danger here is that the hostels, the offices that are built in apartments, the private apartments of multi-story houses, create a huge threat and danger to neighbors. First of all, I'm talking about fire safety, I'm talking about communication wearout, because they're not calculated for 20 or 30 people who use a hostel or an office, for example. So, of course, I urge my colleagues to support this bill to at least bring about any order in this matter. I'd like to vote in favour. And our team will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Lechchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u44	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. I'd like to act as a Kiev Majorate right now. During my meetings with the voters, I heard dozens of complaints from people about the completely uncontrollable activities of the hostels. The fact is that existing legislation does not regulate the activities of hostels in any way. And this leads to a total increase in the number of dwellings that result in total abuse of local residents. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council does not share our proposals to ban the activities of such institutions in residential buildings at all, but this bill is at least a small step forward. Yeah, it's not enough. Yes, it only applies to buildings above 16 floors. But this is at least a step forward that needs to be taken, at least to start this movement on the settlement of this issue. And that's why I'm now addressing all the factions, especially the Self-Help faction, you have the right comments, I absolutely agree with you, but please vote in favour of this bill even though on the first reading, because this question is going to move from a dead place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u45	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And I would like to stress, among the proposals that were made, the proposal was to make changes to the Tourism Act. I'm willing to sound it so that the committee prepares changes to the Tourism Act. We're only going to take it as a basis and we're going to be able to work on the second reading. And I'm going to put this under the transcript so that by the second reading, there will be changes to the Tourism Act. I'm going to make it sound like the commission of a committee to make it sound like a vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. I remind you, we only vote as a basis. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence No. 6424-d on the basis only, but with a parallel mandate to prepare for the second reading amendments to the Tourism Act. Please vote, please support 6424-d as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:05:22]] For 207 I'll make an offer to come back. I'm asking you to invite a colleague into the hall. Show the factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 45, "Resistance Block" – 19, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 10, "Fatherhood" – 8, "will of the people" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to go back to voting on the basis. I'd like you to make the most of it. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6424-d. Please vote and please support the return. Vote, please. Please vote. Vote. [[17:06:41]] For 212 If there are no votes now, I'll move on to the next proposal -- the committee for processing. Now I'm going to re-apply to return to voting as a basis. And I'm stressing for the drafters. If the hall isn't mobilized now, the next proposal will be for the committee to work on. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please mobilize. And I am voting back on the basis of the draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislative acts on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence (No. 6424-d). First vote in return. Please be supportive. Please vote for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:08:07]] For 218. The next suggestion is to send it to the committee for re-reading. I think it's compromising for everyone. And I'm sure we can support each other right now. So, colleagues, please mobilize, this is a compromise position, I hope everyone supports it so that the bill is not rejected. For if he is rejected, he may be offered again at the next session. Therefore, I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. And I'm proposing that the bill of Law 6424-d be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. It's a compromise. Let's keep it together. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[17:09:21]] For the 220. And the final proposal is the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. I'm asking the drafters of the bill, they just come out of the room when they vote. We're six votes short. I'm asking everyone to mobilize so we don't lose the bill. This is a final proposal, which is allowed by the Rules, to direct the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. This is an acceptable compromise so that the bill is not rejected. Look, every voice has a weight. And I'm asking you to back me up. And I'm voting on a proposal for a bill amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR. We want to change the Code of the Ukrainian RSR in order to get the subject back on the right of legislative initiative to work. And, colleagues, every voice has weight. So I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support it. Please vote. Please support 6424-d to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. We vote responsibly and in agreement, each vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[17:10:56]] For 226 Decision taken. I hope that the subject of the legislative initiative will be redrafted as soon as possible and will find a position that will be able to unite the hall. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports (No. 8181). The author requests support for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:11:46]] For-140. Guys, I'll put it back on. But I want to warn you, if we go into full procedure, this will be the final bill for today. In front of us are two important bills that have support in the hall that might be considered. So I ask you once again to support the consideration of draft Law 8181 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:12:25]] For-146 We didn't make it. Third time I'm going to set up, colleagues, if not, we're going into full procedure. So I'm voting on the proposal to draft Law 8181 to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:12:57]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u46	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is given to the bill amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, which has been developed by a number of national deputies who represent different factions. It was developed in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, and this bill has a very important social orientation. What is the purpose of this bill? It refers primarily to the activities of two communities – the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Ukrainian Student Sports Federation. If we feel that we need to fight for a healthy lifestyle, for a mass sport, it is through student and student sports that we can provide mass sport in Ukraine. Since 93, there have been such associations in Ukraine, but so far they have not been implemented in Ukrainian legislation, and then they have been able to run international competitions at an inappropriate level, such as universities or gymnasiums, which have been virtually impossible. This bill opens up these possibilities, it allows for this sports student and student federation. and the Ukrainian Student Sports Federation to be able to work as fully as their partners around the world, under the auspices of the Sport Student Association, and under the auspices of the Ukrainian Student Sports Federation, all competitions involving student sport are taking place. What is more, we are making serious progress, especially in this year's World School, Ukraine has won first place in the world among 58 countries. So I propose, because this is a social bill that unites the entire hall so that we can vote for it and support student and student sports and, in general, mass sports in Ukraine. I would like the entire room to consolidate and vote in favour of this important bill. And I thank the committee for the suggestions, for the work, and I ask you to support the drafting of the committee of profile that this bill has considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u47	Thank you. Please give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports to Dennis Silantiev. Please, Mr. Dennis, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u48	The committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Student Youth Association of Ukraine) (No. 8181). The bill is proposed at the legislative level to determine the sporting status of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Sporting Society of the student youth of Ukraine as public organizations of physical and sporting orientation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not see the need to detail the legal status of Ukraine's Sport Student Association and the Sporting Youth Association of Ukraine as a public organization of physical and sporting orientation and proposes a draft law to be rejected. During the discussion, members of the committee supported the bill, as its implementation would help to regulate the activities of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the sports community of young students in Ukraine, as well as to address the issue of providing them with financial support from the state budget. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's next proposals. First. In the text of the bill, the word "instructive" should be replaced by the word "out-of-time." And the second. In the text and in the title of the bill, replace the words "the sports community of the student youth of Ukraine" with the words "the Ukrainian Federation of Student Sports" in an appropriate contrast. Thank you, colleagues. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you to sign up for the discussion of the bill under discussion. Please, Igor Lapin, present the position of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u50	Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u51	Please turn on your college microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. By voting for this bill now, we support our young athletes. Remember, our athletes at the past high school, which recently ended, were among the best in the world. So let's support our young athletes. And I'd like to point out what's in this. The authors of this bill are representatives of different factions, so let's reject any political differences and vote and support Ukrainian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u53	And thank you. Please, John Krulko, present the position of his "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u54	John the Great, the "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in developing a report that I have already made from the rostrum, I would like to say that this bill is really very useful to the Ministry of Education and Science and to those who are involved in student and student sports. I think we have great prospects for Ukrainian youth to be able to present at the highest level Ukraine at various world, European and global levels and in high schools. So I think that by supporting such social initiatives, we also allow young people to develop in Ukraine and through such a mass student, student sports to achieve the highest achievements in sports, to become Olympic champions, to stay in Ukraine, not to plan to go abroad, but to build their careers here, including sports careers. This bill is truly unifying, and I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to vote in favour of the bill. The Fatherland faction will support this bill just as we will fully support those initiatives that have now been taken by our sports student community to make one of the nearest global universities that gathers athletes from all over the world, which will be a very good foundation for the preparation of sports infrastructure in Ukraine and the preparation of Ukraine for possible future Olympic games. I propose to support this bill and to consolidate the entire session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u55	And thank you. Next, the position of the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko introduces. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u56	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Opposition Block supports the bill. And we think it's necessary to vote today and actually support the activity and the student sports community and the student youth sports community. Just as these organizations, beginning in 1993, when they were created, proved their ability to organize the process. We also support initiatives aimed at developing a healthy lifestyle, creating an interesting lesson in physical education, both in schools and in higher education. This, unfortunately, remains a problem. As a school gymnastics lesson is not interesting to children today, unfortunately, it does not take into account the personal characteristics of each child and accordingly many children simply consider it unnecessary and often do not attend. Regrettably, it is not enough to train people today who teach physical culture both in school and in educational institutions. And actually all of these possibilities, with some support from the state, could also be taken over by appropriate public organizations. There is no doubt that there are warnings about the use in the law of the appropriate names of public organizations, which is actually referred to by scientific and expert management. And this is also not a new discussion, it was in 2009, when the basic Law on Physical Culture and Sports was passed. But since that year, no alternatives have emerged, and these organizations have proved their ability and ability to develop both student and school sports at both the level of Ukraine and at the international level as the only representatives in the international respective organizations. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that we are supporting these sports youth organizations today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u57	Thank you. And the last performance of the faction. Please, Sergey Kaplin, who represents the position of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u58	If you were being listened to or watched by an average schoolboy with his family or a student you're going to support, his sports aspirations, he'd tell you, I apologize for the Russian language, "Don't teach me to live or play sports, but you'd better help material." 800 million dollars a year, all those who have spoken and spoken in support of student and student youth and their sports activities, eat from the government budget for their parties. Each party here, each faction gets millions, hundreds of millions of dollars. Let's not do that, because you're putting this money on political advertising and sponsoring the channels that you've all been criticizing here today. You sponsor aggressors and invaders instead of giving a student, a student to a school, to an institution. We have registered a bill to make public information on the high salaries of ministers, deputy ministers, the leadership of the Supreme Council, the national deputies of Ukraine. They refused. Today, he was put in that papa to deny Caplin's bill. I am supported by the People’s MP Pinzenik, and together we will submit such a bill, and we will see that every ordinary Ukrainian knows how much the party that is in Parliament is eating, how much every minister eats, and where the money that is supposed to go to a simple student in the village is for a simple sport. Our children do not have your words, with our children, you parties present here should share their money, the money that you recovered from their parents’ pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand correctly that all the factions who wanted to join the bill were given the opportunity to speak? Are there no more? I ask you to return to the session room of all, please, colleagues. And in literally 30 seconds, there's going to be a vote. Please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u60	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision-making process. And the heads of the faction, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please take up your jobs, leave your beds, and take your jobs. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Ukrainian Student Youth Sports Association) (No. 8181) at the proposal of the Committee on the Basis and Overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. So please vote and please support Ukrainian athletes, Ukrainian youth. Vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[17:27:03]] For 197 Next proposal, colleagues, on the basis that we can work on the second reading. That's why I'm betting. All right, I'll put it back once, Mr. John. Just talk, you see there are voices in the room. So I'm going to put a motion for a return to the vote for a committee proposal. I'm asking you to mobilize. Please, colleagues, take part in the vote. Anyone who supports the return to the vote for the proposal of the bill's committee, Law 8181, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Here comes the vote, colleagues, everyone in the workplace has to be. [[17:28:13]] For 199 So, on the basis of that, colleagues, will the proposal be supported on the basis? Are you guys gonna support Self-Help on the basis of that? Based on the base. Yes. That's not how they vote. So here's the next proposition: based on the base. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. The next suggestion is just on the basis that we can work on the second reading. I'm asking colleagues to mobilize and vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Ukrainian Student Youth Sports Association) (No.8181) as a basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Based on the base. We're working on the second reading. That's a good compromise offer. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:29:44]] For 210 Colleagues, to the committee for re-reading. I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 51, "Resistance Block" – 25, "self-help" – 11, "Radical Party" – 9, "Fathership" – 10, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party "Resurrection" – 4. Colleagues, let us unite around the following proposal: a committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm asking you to support the proposal that Law 8181 be sent to the committee to prepare for ugly first reading. In order for it not to be rejected, colleagues, I ask you to support this proposal. Please vote. And please support Ukrainian culture and sport and Ukrainian youth. In order for the bill not to be rejected, let's support the proposal to the committee for a re-read. Please vote and support everyone. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We make decisions. [[17:31:11]] For 215 And a final proposal: the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. There are 11 votes missing, colleagues. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. I see a number of people just don't vote, they just vote "against." Let us, fellow workers, unite around the final offer. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. If this proposal is not supported, another bill will be rejected, it will not honor the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm asking you to support the final offer. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Activities of the Ukrainian Sports Student Association and the Student Youth Association of Ukraine (8181) should return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Let's agree on this proposal. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice matters. Please vote. Vote. [[17:32:42]] For 223 Three votes. Now I'm going to make an offer to come back, I see they haven't made it. I'll be back. Colleagues, three votes. Look who's in the towers right now, why don't you come to the hall? I now ask everyone to invite the deputies into the hall and to be in the workplace during the vote. People's deputies are coming in, please. You're ready, aren't you? So I'd like you to prepare. I would like to point out that I will make the same proposal: the subject of the legislative initiative. But the first vote should be the return, and then the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I propose to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports (8181). So please vote and please support my offer to return. Let's vote, colleagues. Three votes missing. Please vote carefully and responsibly. We vote back, we vote back. [[17:34:25]] For 221 Less votes. Bill 8181 has been rejected. Colleagues, I have been approached by a group of authors of the next draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Strengthening of the Protection of Management Subjects against Unlawful Action or the Inaction of Involvement Authorities, which is that if there is no support in the Chamber to remove it from consideration. And that's why I'm going to put it on the rating vote. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for Strengthening the Protection of Management Subjects against Unlawful Action or the Inaction of Involvement Authorities (No. 7373). The rating vote. Please take part and please support. Please vote. Vote. Can I have your back, please? [[17:35:37]] For 184 We're not going in. But, colleagues, the next bill is, with the support of which all the factions have addressed me. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (No. 6439-d). Colleagues, I emphasize: this is the support of our highlands and most factions have asked me to put it in order of the day. And I'm going to put him on the ratings vote. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support and I'm asking you to vote. Did you get it? He's in the daytime next, everyone's seen him. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (No. 6439-d). The rating vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:37:08]] For-182 I'm asking you to show the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 44, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 8, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth – 0. Colleagues, I'm going to propose this law once again for the rating vote. I'm surprised at the low support. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. Once again, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (No. 6439). I'm sure people will be investigating who voted under this law. By vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:38:28]] For-173 No support. And a group of authors are asking him to postpone it. But, colleagues, I was counting on this bill to make a positive decision. And so I'm going to put the following bills on the ratings to see which one can unify the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We still have time to work. I'm asking you to return to the hall. And I'm voting for the next draft of the law, this is the original health care bill on the basis of family medicine (No. 6634). He is offered only as a basis. Today we have adopted an important law to support medicine. And I ask you to vote and support in the rating vote the draft Law on Primary Health Care in Family Medicine (No. 6634). Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Let us support family medicine. Please vote. Vote. [[17:40:02]] For 165 There is no support for this bill. Next. Is Anton Gerashchenko present? Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Settlement of Holidays for Theatre Workers. But as far as I know, there are differences under this bill. But I'm going to run the rating vote anyway. Ratings for draft Law 8528. Please vote, please support. [[17:40:48]] For-163 No support. I, my colleagues, will put two more bills on the rating vote, if there is no support, then I will have to hold a general account of those present at the parliamentary session in order to make a proper decision on the continuation of the session. So the next one. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Transfer of Property to State and Municipal Property) (No. 6007). The draft Transport Committee Law 6007, and I'm conducting a rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:41:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And the next. Draft Decision on Parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Participation of young people in the process of reforming the state" (Arthur Palatny, Mikola Veličkovic). Colleagues, this is a draft regulation, and since there's not enough support under the law, we're going to Project Order 8367. And I'm asking you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, we've got 20 minutes, we're just not gonna make it. So I'm asking everyone to back up the proposal so that we can look at Project Order 8367 with a reduced procedure. Keep it up, fellows. I ask everyone to support and vote on the simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Keep it up, fellows. Please support everyone. [[17:43:14]] For-152. The decision is not taken. And I invite the representative of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Mikol Romanovic, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u61	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the Declaration on the General Principles of State and Youth Policy in Ukraine, and on the basis of the decisions of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism of 16 May this year, the National Deputies, members of our Committee, are submitting to you a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Participation of young people in the process of reforming the state", which is proposed to be held on 21 November 2018. Youths are a powerful driving force that because of their zeal and perseverance is able to make important changes in defense of national interests and the nation’s expansion. Today, there are more than 11.5 million young people between the ages of 14 and 35 in Ukraine, a quarter of the population of our nation. It is important that half of them are willing to take part personally in community initiatives. Young people want to change their lives and the lives of their regions and states in general. That is why changes and reforms in Ukraine require a fundamental review of the relationship between the state and the government. Conducting parliamentary hearings on the topic will help to increase young people's participation in decision-making processes, public affairs and community affairs, increase their public activity and develop youth policies in Ukraine as a tool for involving young people in reforming the state. Please support these parliamentary hearings and vote in favour. I appeal to members of all political parties: please support parliamentary hearings on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u62	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please hold the recording. From the Self-Help faction, Captain Olena Sergiyevna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Captain Olenna, Self-Help faction, leader of the self-help youth wing. I'm going to take the lead here, probably not as a national MP, but still as a person who represents the youth wing of our party and young people who absolutely wants to stay and dream of staying in this country and dreaming of living in a successful country, in our country, in Ukraine, and not going anywhere, not looking for a better life in other countries, and that is what we need to do to make no decision about young people without young people. Unfortunately, today, both the Ministry of Youth and Sports and local self - government authorities in most of their and other state bodies have absolutely no effective mechanism for involving young people in making decisions that relate directly to them. We don't have youth policy, we don't have an effective Youth Act today that contains real mechanisms for young people's involvement in the governance of this state, to make decisions. And the key is: young people as well as anyone else, any other citizen has the right to participate directly in. to be delegated to the authorities. Today, I have to say publicly that the Ministry of Youth and Sports is doing everything possible to create institutional mechanisms, so-called "young councils," but it's completely not involved in this process, in discussing young people, it's doing everything to make these institutions "charm." That's why I'm here. "pinch money," so I'm asking our deputies very much to support this decision. We have to discuss this question, so young people are just driving away, they're mass-driving from the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u64	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko is invited. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u65	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, colleagues, when can we really say that we care about a young person? Then, when we are not simply discussing matters in this session room and talking about how much to love young people, then when we make a favorable decision about youth policy. Ten minutes ago, we failed a bill concerning the Sports Student Society and the Student Youth Association to develop mass sports, so that young athletes could find themselves, participate in world competitions, in the first place and win, bring glory to Ukraine, and bring themselves opportunities for development and implementation in the Ukrainian state. The bill was failed because of what? Because there are no MPs physically to vote on such bills. We will now consider the next bill concerning the holding of parliamentary hearings. But please tell me, over the four years of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how many issues related to youth policy have really been adopted in this session room? Zero, issues related to youth policy were not approved. We have a bill on youth, my colleague mentioned it. It is a bill developed by youth organizations, ministries, the Family Committee, youths, and sports. I worked on this bill myself for several years. This is a bill that changes the philosophy of approaches to youth policy, because youth policy is not a conversation at parliamentary hearings. These are cheap housing loans so that they can create a family and get housing. It's the first job for a young person, it's youth policy. Youth policy is an opportunity to do business in the Ukrainian state because it's a matter of leaving young Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u66	Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u67	Because the question and problem of young Ukrainians going outside of the Ukrainian state is not that they are not patriots of Ukraine, but that they cannot realize themselves in Ukraine. They cannot find a job, they cannot build a home, they cannot create a family, and they cannot get the support of a state for their family. That's what youth policy is all about. I believe that the parliamentary hearings to be held, and the Fatherland faction will support this, we are obliged, at least in the first reading, to adopt a comprehensive youth bill, where we can put out all the opportunities for a young person to show a person how he can implement himself in Ukraine. That's when we can say that Parliament has done something for youth policy. And so far, I'm sorry, it's just listening. Let us make specific decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u68	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u69	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we must support all the speakers and support the bill. When it comes to young people, perhaps everyone should not raise his hand or vote for the green button. It would appear that on November 21st, 18th, all young people will be gathered in the Supreme Council for parliamentary hearings, and we should hear them. Reforming the state is how it sounds, and we don't want to support it. We didn't support previous student sports games, it's very common, because it's not like young people have said before me that young people who are preparing for sports, and we always forget about it, and we don't want them to take this part on a legal level. It's very common, when we don't understand it, we don't understand it, young people. And it is very pleasant to hear young people speak when they express their problems. So we have to think about it and give these levers of governance to our young people. If we don't, maybe we don't want these young people to change us here. And I'd like her to change us here so she can go into this Supreme Council Hall and, in fact, she's running the state, and we're going step by step towards the European level of development and so on. So I'm asking everyone to vote today for the draft decree, and on November 21st, everyone came to the hall and supported our young people. This is going to be a big step forward in the development of young people, in running our country. That's why I'm asking everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u70	Thank you. From the People's Front, please, Igor Lapin, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u71	Glory to Ukraine! Thank you. You know, maybe someone forgot, but it's November 21st that we can think of as the beginning of the revolution. Perhaps someone has forgotten, but it is young people who have started the events that we all remember, and those who do not remember, that is why we need to be reminded. Dear colleagues, I remember very well the young boys on whom we cherished great hopes when they threw bottles. They could have thrown them further than some of us, to whom they say they are a bit of an age. I remember very well how our young people first broke down without any experience in volunteering units to protect Ukraine's independence. You know, it's because of their enthusiasm that we got up, too, those who were older, who were thinking, maybe someone was thinking, "Avos will move, or maybe they'll figure it out." This very category of people, young people themselves, has reminded us that we are worthy. They were the first to gain the independence of our nation. Because 25 years ago, all we thought was that we had that independence. It was the youths who moved us to act and fight. Because I saw how inexperienced they walked and had to go in order to at least make their experience easier for them to gain that experience. So, dear colleagues, I realize that now is the end of the day, I'm going to try to put myself in the rules of procedure and ask you to call your colleagues and let them get their asses up and come here. Let our young people support us. And so that we can hear them, and they, by the way, have the first right to enter this room on November 21st, because this day is the beginning of the revolution. And it was the young people who did it, and we simply supported it. Let's do the same thing today. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m1.u72	Thank you. So, colleagues, all the factions came out, right? The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I would like to emphasise, this is about parliamentary hearings, it's not about deciding to change the laws, it's about giving us good things for parliamentary hearings. And I'm sure everyone supports that. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall from your bed, too. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine on "Participation of Young People in State Reform" on November 21, 2018 (No. 8367), on the proposal of the Committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:57:36]] For-164 Colleagues, I now recommend that all members, including the Youth Committee, print this vote, print who and how they voted. And turn to your factions at factions to see how they support the factions of youth and sports and Ukrainian youth. This is unacceptable and impossible. It's a decree. We can move it, and with that there will be no difficulty we can look at it any day after that. But this is a general attitude toward both work in Parliament and youth and sports. Project Order 8367 dismissed, colleagues. I have rejected a number of bills today, stressing that if the MPs are not in the hall, the bills will simply be rejected. But after all, we've passed six important bills in general, six laws on this day of opening our session -- a positive result to mark and mark. The session is now running out of time. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. I'll remind you, tomorrow, the issue of ratifications and the question of the business office. And the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
