ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:02:33]] 340 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on December 6, 1991, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. And today, on this very day, we celebrate the celebration of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It's symbolic that the day of our Armed Forces is December 6th, the day of the legendary operation of the UN Army, the first winter march of 1919-1920. On this heroic voyage along the back of the three enemy armies, which lasted four months, the U.N.R. Army was honoured to carry out its battle mission. In 2014, the heroism of Ukrainian soldiers broke the plans of a Russian aggressor. And now, in these moments, our army bravely holds the shield of Europe in the east of Ukraine against the Russian invasion. Deep gratitude and respect for our knights, who courageously and sacrificially defend our borders and the peaceful lives of Ukrainians. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Welcome, soldiers! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Colleagues, on this symbolic day, we have prepared a block of security and defense. Questions that at the same time honor the memory of our heroes who fought for the Ukrainian state, such as the first Sukhević Bill, 8519, and the security laws that are necessary for today’s day in the forerunners, particularly the draft Law on the Adhesive Zone of Ukraine and the draft Law on Opposable Activities in Ukraine. Also, colleagues, we have a number of impeccable security ratifications. And I hope that today we will be able to work productively and effectively and in our legislative work to help our soldiers advance in the defense of our nation, in the defense of the entire free world. But before I go to the agenda, I want to announce that there are two factions in the Presidency: A radical party and Fatherland. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of Oleg Lacha. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to point out that in Ukraine, there was a resurgence of drugs: domestic drugs of about 8 to 10 percent, imported drugs of about 7 percent. This means that even more Ukrainians will not be able to afford to buy drugs and treat them because the more expensive the drugs are, the less likely they will be to buy them. According to statistics and so on, every other person in Ukraine refuses treatment because there is no money. The price of medicine is a mess. The state has completely removed its power from the protection of Ukrainians ’ rights, from access to treatment, and from the purchase of these drugs. Such a hindrance, such chaos, such irresponsibility in the pricing of drugs, as is the case in Ukraine, is apparently not in any country of the world, because the state does not think it is responsible. We definitely don't agree with that. The irresponsibility, the immorality of power that has been removed from the obligation to protect Ukrainians ’ constitutional right to health, to a safe environment, has resulted in several times more expensive treatments in Ukraine today than in neighboring countries. Thus, most Ukrainians are unable to heal, get sick, and die because the state has immorally removed its obligation to protect the health and life of Ukrainians. We ask the authorities to accept our plan, which we have proposed, to protect the lives and health of Ukrainians, and which will allow them to spend their medicine, to restore government control over prices for medicines, to limit profitability so that they do not take advantage of the health of Ukrainians when they earn space money, to buy 5 bracelets, to sell 150 dollars, to benefit from human health, and no one is responsible for anything. Limit the profitability, not more than 10-15 percent, to make money selling drugs, so that Ukrainians can buy those drugs and be treated. Cancel VAT for medicine. Introduce the most severe criminal responsibility for the sale of fake drugs. Our team has registered an appropriate bill in Parliament, and a long time government majority have blocked its consideration here because they don't care about life and health. See how this is done in neighboring lands. They get a license, conditions are tough: restrictions on profitability, government regulations, hands are cut off for selling fake drugs. And that's why people all over the world are being treated, and in Ukraine they are dying because there are limited access to drugs because there are copious wages and pensions, immoral powers that have been removed and that do not protect the health and rights of Ukrainians, and there is no limit to the market for pricing. Barriers make billions of dollars, millions of people get sick because they can't be treated. We offer a very clear plan of action that will allow the Ukrainians to regain justice and treatment in their own country. We demand that the authorities act decisively.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u3	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I want to remind you that yesterday we started a review of the draft Law on Consumer Information on Food. This is a draft law on agrarian policy, but it is also a law necessary for European integration to implement the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. We've got a small number left, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're continuing the discussion. And I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Jurčin Petr Vasilovich to the rostrum. I'm going to remind you that yesterday we completed the 53rd. And I'm asking the right-wing authors who are going to stand up for their amendment by raising their hands to report that we are able to complete quickly, effectively and move on to the decision-making process. So I'm going to read the corrections that are rejected. 55th. Don't insist. He insists on the Kolesniks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dmitry Kolesnikov, "The Opposition Block." With this right, I meant that every buyer should consciously choose to buy or not to buy a product that has GMO compounds in it. Even if the product is less than the percentage of this or the ingredient, it has to be marked with a GMO. So I propose to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Will you comment? 55th. Colleagues, 55 straight. Please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u6	The Honourable People's Deputy Kolesnikov, an editorial adopted in the first reading, meets the requirements of the European Union Directive 2011 and is an exception to the general rules on labelling of the food product by identifying the party to which such food belongs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u7	Thank you. But the author insists on voting, and that's why I vote. Who supports Amendment 55, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please take part in the vote. [[10:11:14]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 56th. Don't insist. 60th. He insists. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u8	Dear Alexander. Oh, my God! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! But I was thinking about Dombrowski, about green tariffs. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm not gonna talk to accredited and authorized labs right now, we discussed them yesterday. At the same time, I would like to make the amendment that the rapporteur is asking the committee to make a statement under the transcription, the definition, which is the main thing about this bill, the definition of marking. Paragraph 11 of the first part of Article 1 of Chapter I of the bill should be redrafted. I'll read it. "Marking is words, descriptions, signs for goods and services, graphic images or symbols relating to food products and, in the absence of packaging, in documents or messages accompanying or referring to food products." We agreed with the experts who worked on the bill. And I'm asking Andrija Volodymyrovich to read this paper under the transcript when the vote is taken. And I ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of the bill because it is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u9	Please, Peter Vasilovich. So the head of the committee. Mrs. Oksana! During the vote, it will be written in the closing statement and we will vote in this form. I'll give you my word for closing. 61st. Vadim, 61st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we spoke yesterday about the responsibility of manufacturers directly to consumers for the misrepresentation of information. For example, the Law, which is proposed by the Agrarian Committee, on registration, on the identification of animals, offers the responsibility of people for not registering and identifying their animals, such as natural persons, 30 minimum wages, and in this law is proposed 20. I don't understand why manufacturers' responsibility to consumers is so low in this law, compared to the Animal Registration Act, where, for example, entrepreneurs have 60-90 minimum wages as a liability, and just individuals have 30. This law offers much less responsibility. That's 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u11	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u12	This law offers much less responsibility – out of 20 minimum wages. I suggested that legal persons should be raised and that individuals should also be raised. I think it's going to be logically relative to the projects that we're going to go on. And I'm asking that we support this amendment and then we support the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u13	Thank you. I am. One second. You and 61-y and 62-y, are you going to be separate by 62? Together, right? Please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u14	With a view to fulfilling this requirement under article 65 of the Ukrainian Act on State control of compliance with food, feed, animal by-products, animal health and welfare, changes are planned to address the requirements of legislation for the provision of consumer information on food, misleading consumers by providing incorrect, unreliable and incomprehensible food information to consumers. Such an offence will entail a fine of 15 minimum wages for legal persons, for natural persons who are entrepreneurs, up to 10 minimum wages. In addition, in one law we prescribe essentially one type of violation, but we set different sizes of fines for it, which may lead to problems with the application of the bill after its adoption as a law. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u15	Do you insist on voting? Yes. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote of 61, the committee rejected it, but the author insists on voting. Who supports Amendment 61, please vote. [[10:15:55]] For-75 The decision is not taken. But if there is agreement with the committee, the committee can make that sound in the closing statement. No, it's not. 62 readjustment. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. We have today compared to the registration and identification bill, significantly reduced requirements for manufacturers, namely, the responsibility of manufacturers to the consumer for providing reliable information. And we don't have a responsibility if the manufacturer repeatedly violates consumer rights legislation, about providing information to consumers. So I want to say again, and the next thing I know, this is about increasing responsibility. I also introduce a re-responsibility, where we increase, say, the possibility of a fine for legal persons to 90 minimum wages and for individuals who are entrepreneurs to 60. What does that mean? This means that if the fines are increased, they will think before they mislead the consumer. Let's protect the people who buy the food. And I'm asking that we also support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u17	Mr. Yvchenko, I repeat, if you have a position that is supported by the committee, let the committee's representative say it in the closing statement, and we're going to include it in the text of the law. If you have an understanding with the committee. Please, Mr. Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u18	Dear National Deputy Yvchenko, the proposed changes do not refer to the European Union’s legislation, but we do not deny it. However, we believe that paragraph 24 will duplicate paragraph 20. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u19	Thank you. So I'm going to vote 62. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, the committee has rejected it. [[10:18:00]] For-86 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, 68 revisions. I'll give it to you. And, colleagues, attention, this is going to be a final amendment. So I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall, and in a few minutes we'll be moving on to the decision-making process. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. 68 edits, Wheelchairs, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u20	Dmitry Kolesnikov, "The Opposition Block." Dear colleagues, yesterday and today we had a lot of talk about this law, and I had the impression that it was a law on the use of food in general, probably. And now I'm talking about risk products. Additional information should be provided on the ingredient or method of preparation that allows for a storage period of more than a year. Therefore, each ingredient used in a product that is stored for more than a year must be indicated on this product. That's not contrary, 68th, and my amendment is not contrary to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u22	Dear People's Deputies of Kolesnikov! Yesterday we were looking at your papers, you were gone. I understand that you are entitled, but you are obliged to be present at their consideration. So today, in the last 68th, I want to point out that Appendix 2 to the bill refers to the requirement for information on food products that should contain the additional data defined by this appendix. The requirement to provide additional information on kicked meat products is not contained in Rule 1169. Unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u23	Thank you. The author insists on voting. I'm betting on the 68th vote. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:20:36]] For-96 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've completed our review of the rights and we're moving on to the decision-making process. I now invite you to the closing statement of Jurchishin Petr Vasilovich. I'll remind you, he's going to be sounding for the law under the transcript, and in three minutes, we're going to move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Peter Vasilovich, 3 minutes, closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, once again, the bill (registration number 8450) on consumer information on food is one of the most important European integration legislation. Its adoption will contribute to a comprehensive resolution of all issues related to providing consumers with information about food products, their ingredients, their composition, their nutritional values, and their way of eating. Food users, including all of us, will be able to choose for themselves products that are environmentally sound and healthy and will be protected from fraudulent and deceptive practices. Colleagues, please accept in second reading and in general as a bill the draft Ukrainian Food Information Act (Registration No. 8450). But today, I want to make adjustments to part 1 of chapter I. Please support the amendment of the Ukrainian national deputy Oksana Petrovna Sold. In accordance with Part One, Part One, of Section One, paragraph 11, of Bill No. 8450, please include it in the next edition. I'll read it under the transcript. "Marking, words, descriptions, trademarks for goods and services, trademarks, graphic images or symbols relating to food products placed on any package, labels (stickers), collets and, in the absence of a package, in a document or message accompanying or referring to a food product."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please enter the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote, please, your colleagues. Heads of factions, please invite all deputies to the Hall. You're ready, aren't you? All right. Just 30 seconds, please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am asking to vote in favour of this bill, because it is with you that we can consume a non-quality product thanks to an unconscionable producer, and these are our children, because there are no foreign children. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u27	Thank you. So I put to the vote the draft Law on Consumer Information on Foods (No. 8450), as amended by Jurčin's transcript, Peter Vasilovich, and at the suggestion of the Committee, second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We stand, we vote. [[10:24:32]] For 223 We didn't make it. We'll be right back, colleagues. But please be at work. Do not leave the hall during the vote. So take up jobs, colleagues. I'll put the first vote back, and then I'll put the law back in place. All right, everybody, get ready. First sentence: return to the vote in favour of Law 8450. And I ask everyone to vote carefully for the return. Please vote and please support. Careful, colleagues, every voice. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:25:24]] For 230 We're back. And now I'm putting in draft Law 8450, as amended by Jurchisin Petr Vasilovich, second reading and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:25:55]] For 231 The law is passed. So, colleagues, the next we have -- the first law in the National Security and Defence Unit -- is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, to strengthen the social protection of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th century (8519). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. We'll support it, colleagues. Please be supportive. It's a very short law and it's very important to our freedom fighters. [[10:26:43]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to speak to the Vice-President of the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, Mr. Suhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, on the day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I would like to welcome all our soldiers, all those who have served and served today, with this festival. [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you. But at the same time, on this very day, I would like to address you with the following. There is still a whole category of people who have fought for that Ukraine that have given their lives and some have been fortunate enough to survive to this day. There aren't many, there's only 1,000 200 of them on our account. These are the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army and the armed formations of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, they are today the most successive category. And that's why our bill 8519, committeeed to give those soldiers what they deserve, is a participant in combat. This status will give them a certain guarantee, and even though it will partially compensate them for what they have been deprived of for years. The bill is small, so I ask you to support this committee bill. True, the committee added one more, and I would like to ask you to include one more line under the transcript: the addition of the Ukrainian rebel army, the Polish Sici Bulby-Borovac and the Ukrainian National Revolutionary Army, as well as the participants in the Ukrainian military organization and the National Defence Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u29	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u30	It's under the stenogram. And please accept, this is recommended by the committee, please accept as a basis, and in general, with my readjustment under the transcript, as well as with technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, please record: two-for-two-again. And let's talk briefly, briefly. I think everyone supports it because it's about adding to the status of the Armed Forces on the day of the war, the veterans of the UPA, the Polish Sichi -- all those who put their lives to the will of Ukraine. Let's talk briefly and support it. Anointed, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u32	Please pass the word to a fellow Soviet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u33	Saveka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To take action, I want to welcome all my brothers, all those who have fought and fought at this time, protecting our country of Ukraine in the twentieth century. So that's why I'm a military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces before that. And we have to treat it with respect, because these people who in their time have given up their lives to protect us, we are equal to them, and we are looking at them, we are going to talk, so that we can take only the good from them to protect our country of Ukraine. So I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill, and we must. I want to express only my gratitude to those who are doing their utmost to keep our history in our memory and to continue for many years. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u35	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Linko Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u36	First of all, on this day, we welcome all the defenders of Ukraine, the defenders who are today defending our country, who have been fighting for independence throughout the history of Ukraine. On this important day we only learned five years ago what an army really is when it's gone and when it's very needed and the enemy is standing in front of the border. Therefore, we must first restore historical justice and give all the help and attention needed to the defenders who, in the difficult times of the Second World and after defending and defending our country, fought for the independence of our Ukraine. And most importantly, it's to provide social protection and guarantees and to help today's defenders. Because our army and our army are the only guarantee of our freedom and independence and the guarantee of the return of our occupied territories. Because only an army can stop road rage. Unfortunately, it's not diplomacy, it's not political statements, it's not the West's concern, it's just our military. And that's why we have to do everything we can to make them secure. Some say that it is necessary to raise the military’s salary when the invasion of the territory of Ukraine takes place. We need to raise our wages, not when the show is coming, but today when they are protecting us! Because the toll hit started in the 14th year, not after the state of war was declared. So there are four years of war and four years of military service, unfortunately, we don't have that level of protection and social security. And their families today are forced to live three copies. Nevertheless, let us do our utmost to have our army and our military personnel live with dignity. And so we don't just mention them on this Day of Protector of Ukraine. And once again with the holiday! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u37	Heroic glory! Husak gives the floor to the King's Natalia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we don't have Fatherland's supporters here yesterday or today. This is primarily the case with the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the veterans of social work, the veterans of international wars, the veterans of Chernobyl. All of these people, at their own time, no doubt stood up for their country, and most of them have done so at the cost of their own health, some at the cost of their own lives. Now you want to expand the circle of veterans, sometimes connecting the unconnected, sometimes continuing to spread the rift that is in the veteran circles today. And unfortunately, instead of dealing with the real social protection of these people, the first thing to do is to abolish that criminal law that was passed by the Coalition on January 1, 2015, when they took away the aid of war criminals and the family of veterans who died, as well as those who have special merit before the Motherland, you deprived them not only of the guaranteed right to treatment and recovery and the right to travel to places of treatment free of charge. And today, by expanding the circle, you are not protecting the veterans, but you are humiliating them even more. That's why the Opposition Block faction calls on you to adopt the 4143 bill that we've registered, and to return all the legal benefits to our real veterans, the veterans of the Great Fatherland, the veterans of the socialist work, the veterans of the war, who have been protecting our Fatherland for various years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u39	From "The Fatherland" Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u40	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Shuhevich for introducing this bill. And in fact, this bill -- I want to make up for the previous one -- it's not meant to be divided, it's aimed at restoring historical justice and eventually bringing together all those who fought for an independent Ukraine at the cost of their lives and health. These people, who are very few left alive, deserve to be honored, at least by the meager payments they have to receive as a guarantee of their status as war veterans. That's why I'm really grateful that the Ukrainian rebel army, the Ukrainian rebel army of the Ottoman Taras Bulby-Borovitz, was included in this bill, and hundreds of them were created in Sarnenska. What they added here is an amendment, and I fully support it, Carpathian City, is the 100th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine, and we're going to celebrate next year in early January. So I think that, in fact, all those who fought for the Ukrainian state, who fought against the invader, regardless of whether it came from the eastern borders or from the western borders, should be honored. And most of all, and this is a requirement of the Fatherland faction, we really need these state aids to be worthy so that war veterans can survive this month, not survive like this now. And then we're really going to say that respect, it's become a real thing for those people who deserve it. And this bill must now be voted on, and the "Paternity" faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. From Self-Help, Roman Semenich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u42	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Honorary colleagues, Ukraine, undoubtedly must rid the Soviets of their legislation and restore historical justice. But let's also be clear that this cadence of the Supreme Council has changed this Law on the Status of War Veterans 17 times. And that means, unfortunately, that there is neither a comprehensive approach nor an understanding of what changes are needed, and especially with regard to the filling of social protection, the State's social actions in relation to war veterans. Today, according to these Soviet norms laid down in this law, indeed, benefits and status can be granted to those who fought German invaders, and the bill restores historical justice by expanding this list, and it proposes to grant the status of war veterans and those who fought the Communist regime. Then, of course, the self-help faction will support this initiative. But, colleagues, we still have to move on to real social policy in terms of all war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u43	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. This law is important, I'm sure it will be an honor for everyone to vote. We live in historical times, colleagues. Today, on the day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the son of the chief commander of the UPA, Roman Shuhevich, will report from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And this shows that our struggle and our war have not been four years, our war has lasted for over 100 years, from the soldiers of the UNR, UGA, the soldiers of the UPA and to this day. And this is a struggle for Ukraine's dependence. And today, in support of our dependence, we have to pay tribute to all those predecessors, our grandparents, those who fought for the Ukrainian state, who unfortunately couldn't keep it, but gave their lives with the dream of the day when Ukraine will be independent. "We were born of a great hour" is an anthem performed by the Ukrainian army today from those stages of our struggle. So I ask everyone to vote and support this bill, which gives the status of UPA, Polish Sichi, Karpathian Ukraine. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to strengthen the social protection of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th century (8519) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We will support the fighters for the will of Ukraine. Every voice. [[10:41:00]] For the 220. I see we haven't made it. I'm not even going to read the factions, I'm just going to point it out. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. And I ask you to vote responsibly. Please remain seated during the vote and vote. Ready, colleagues? Please take up jobs. Every voice. You don't do these things, you have to vote for these laws and vote for them. So the first vote for the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 8519. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice. Please vote for the return. Vote! [[10:42:00]] For 221 I'll read the factions. No, colleagues. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 63, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 11, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional – 29. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be there. I'm going to put it to the vote again. And I'm sure. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs, come into the hall. Look at the factions that aren't in the hall. And I can't imagine a vote on this issue in the Ukrainian Parliament being questioned. There is an exclusive list of UPA soldiers, soldiers of the Polish Sichi. These are the soldiers of Carpathian Ukraine, the heroes of Ukraine. So I ask you to stop any discussion and take part in the vote. So, Mr. Yuri, you have the right to vote, right? I'll bet you one more time. I'm asking colleagues to mobilize and vote. All right. Don't leave the hall, take your seats, please. The first vote is for the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of Law 8519. And I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. For the Ukrainian soldiers, for our fighters, please vote. To return. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice. [[10:44:03]] For 236 We're back. Now I'm putting the bill of Law 8519 on the ground and in general taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Vote. Don't play with that vote, support the UPA soldiers. Support our heroes. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:44:45.]] For 236 The law is passed. We welcome and honor the memory of the heroes that have given us the Ukrainian state. Mr. Yuri, thank you. So, colleagues, our next bill is the draft law in the security and defence bloc, which is the draft law on the adjacent zone, 8361. This is the second reading, and there's a small number of rights. So I'm asking you to keep your distance, there's a very small number of rights. And I invite you to report on the draft Act on the adjacent zone (8361) of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u44	Good morning, dear fellows! I would like everyone in the session room, the people of Ukraine, the Ukrainian soldiers to welcome the Day of the Armed Forces, the main guarantor of our independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity. God Give Them Health! May God protect you! God Save Ukraine! With regard to the draft, which is reported in the second reading (registration number 8361), I would like to report that this is a two-pronged project that strengthens the powerful control functions of the Ukrainian Navy, the Border Service, particularly the maritime security, in Ukraine's adjacent zone. What's the adjacent area? Ukraine ratified the Convention on the Law of the Sea as early as 1999, which defines the term “neighbourly zone”. It is a sea area that stretches 24 miles off the coast of Ukraine. Now we control the territorial sea is 12 miles. But effective tools to control the opposition, to prevent delinquency from being held accountable by those who commit crimes against Ukraine in the adjacent zone, i.e. 24 miles away, Ukraine has not yet set up a convention that we have ratified. In fact, this bill is called upon to order the power of the state in the adjacent zone: to give all the control, to take responsibility for violations of the fiscal, customs, migration or sanitary rules of the ship, the ship, the boats, the boats -- is a full quote from the Convention on the Law of the Sea -- in the adjacent zone of Ukraine. Perhaps the Kremlin, which had a long history of influence on Ukraine’s national decisions, had blocked the adoption of this important law. And it's probably symbolic that on Armed Forces Day, much of the order of our day today is devoted to strengthening Ukraine, developing the Armed Forces, figuring out the circumstances that have weakened in previous times, and hopefully eventually the Supreme Council will contribute to bringing the responsibility of those who have actually committed crimes against national security. Speaking of the content of the bill, I would like to report that 34 amendments have been made to the committee, 28 have been taken into account, including partial or editorially counted, 6 have been rejected. But I would like to point out that the two amendments that are in the table as rejected, namely, the 3rd Order of the People's Deputies of Rybchin and the 4th Order of the Freedom Group, at the suggestion of the committee after the consultations that actually lasted until morning, we will consider. So in my speech, I'm going to propose 3rd and 4th revisions to support as well as accounted for, and accordingly, the final text is going to mean with these. Let's go to the corners, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u45	Thank you. So the colleagues, I think, aren't much of a right. The law is extremely important, especially considering the latest acts of aggression by the Russian Federation at sea. And that's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Right over here is literally a few, and we're going to go straight to the vote. 3rd Amendment. Don't insist. He insists. Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u46	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I thank the committee for their last advice on this important bill and recommended that this be taken into account. This amendment refers to terminological things that propose the definition of the term "neighbourly area of Ukraine" to replace "sea area" with "sea zone". And this is a terminology bill that agrees with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Convention uses the term "sea belt" and the word "area" refers more to the definition of seas and oceans. So it's a very important readjustment. Thank you to the committee that they have worked to the end and have considered this amendment and recommend that it be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u47	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u48	For the transcript: 3rd and 4th revision -- please consider it counted and vote for it, and the 5th corresponding revision, which is counted, will be taken into account in part for its status, with the corresponding changes in the fourth column, so that the text of the committee prepares the corresponding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u49	Do they insist on voting? No, it's not. So 4a. Don't insist. 12th. He insists. Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u50	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to vote in favour of this bill, and I want to say that the first time this bill on the adjacent zone was submitted in 2009 by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who then contained a large number of positions that were not included in the first reading, but which we included with the committee, along with the assistants, along with the experts. That's also the 3rd amendment we talked about, the "sea belt." And I also thank the committee for taking into account the amendment that relates to research into archaeological and historical objects of cultural heritage in the adjacent zone, which is the 26th, 27th. And this bill is now more complex, it enhances national security at sea. And if we had taken it earlier, if it had been accepted earlier, I think it would have strengthened our guarantees of legal protection, including the incident that was in Kerch, when our boys were captured, the Russian Federation attacked our ships in a very subtle manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u51	Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist. Next up, 19th. The author does not insist. 23rd. Nope. He insists, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u53	Well, please be careful when I read it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u54	19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u55	19th, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the law applies to the procedure for inspecting a foreign vessel. In the first reading, this issue was never regulated in any way. So I suggest you write this order. In particular, propose to include the inspection of the vessel itself and navigational documents, crew members and passengers' documents, cargo documents, and, where necessary, ship's premises. Provided that the suspicion of a violation of the legislation has not been confirmed after such examination, the vessel may be allowed to stay in the adjacent zone. I strongly insist that these standards be prescribed in the body of the law, rather than passing on appropriate powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, because the sad experience of transferring such powers to the Cabinet of Ministers shows that such standards should be prescribed in the body of the law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u57	Let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u58	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u59	Indeed, the bill has been seriously worked out on the committee because we have given it appropriate functional qualities and powers. In fact, we wrote specifically about what maritime security will do, including by stopping vessels, and by reviewing ships, and by arresting vessels or crew members of their crew. During the process, an interesting delicate detail was found regarding the current State Border Service Act, where border guards at sea were limited in their ability to use force, means, weapons, military weapons, and technology. So, by the way, I'd like to refer, colleagues, to 31 amendments, where we specify, in particular, the State Border Service Act, the state border of Ukraine, the adjacent zone, where we give effective powers to border guards to take action against and deter any form of aggression that will be committed against their vessels, against their military personnel, who will bear and exercise appropriate powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u60	Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 19. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:54:02]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Kishkar, please. Kishkar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u61	Thank you, colleagues, for, indeed, the quality of the bill. Attention to the 18th, and request to keep it in the body of the law of authorization. The only thing we write in some of the paragraphs is "State Border Service Marine Protection," and in some of them it's just "State Border Service." Why is it so difficult to understand? I'd leave it at all, "State authorities authorized to take action to protect the state border." That's it. Who's going to protect you? In a state of war, I'm sure the armed forces are involved as well. Why not let them stop the ship or look around? There is a normal article in paragraph four, which was prescribed; John’s amendment cancels it. I would insist on leaving such authority. And thank you again, and please support the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u62	Please, Mr. Ivan. That's what I understand you're asking for confirmation. Yeah? Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u63	In order not to overload and adhere to the principle of legal certainty, where the law clearly defines the state authority that will carry out maritime protection in the adjacent zone, in order not to enter into competition with the content of the convention that we refer to everywhere, particularly with regard to the content of actions that border guards can do in exercising their powers, we have ruled out this amendment. In fact, all of these things are described in article 3, and you can see in the same way in article 2. And I don't see any contradictions there. Please refer to the conclusion of the legal administration, which, in principle, given the rather high level of criticism in general to our work, has given a fairly balanced conclusion to this project for a second reading. Thus, the agreement of the project lasted virtually all night. Even though it's short enough, it's got quite a lot of meaningful workload, and it's not just the experts who work in the foreign service today that have been involved, and the scientists who are now working in the scientific institutes, the academics who are studying this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u64	Do you insist on voting? No, don't insist, okay. Colleagues, this is the last, final amendment of Roman Semenha, and then we move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. 23rd Amendment, Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the law also applies to the detention of a foreign destroyer ship, 23rd. In the first reading, colleagues, this question has never been regulated in any way. So I propose that the detention decision be taken by the authorities of the State Border Service, together with the special authorized authorities in the fiscal, migration field, is also proposed to prescribe a procedure for the detention of a destroyer vessel. It is the creation of a protocol signed by all the above-mentioned authorities of control and the captain of the detained vessel. The protocol should be in two languages: Ukrainian and English, and if the captain of such a ship disagrees with the contents of the protocol or disagrees with the activities of the Marine Guard, he may make a warning to any language in the protocol itself or a separate document. I point out that I also strongly insist that these rules of detention of a foreign destroyer be laid down in the body of the law, rather than transferring appropriate powers of jurisdiction to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Mr. Ivan, please. And, colleagues, in a minute there will be a vote, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we understand your concern, but first of all, we did not want to overload what an authorized state authority must do to ensure the integrity of the state border and the protection of Ukraine's sovereign rights, which is about your question, Mr. Kishkar, who will do so. In addition, we have foreseen the possibility of, I emphasize, if the captain of the Ukrainian warship is to consider it necessary to involve professionals in any field, such as fiscal, migration, sanitary or customs, or other experts, they may involve them on board, but imperatively require the captain of the ship to know English or to give the interpreter to the violator. We have determined that this is not necessary. Two languages. They must respect the Ukrainian battle flag on the Ukrainian battle boat. Let them learn Ukrainian. That'll be great. This is our adjacent zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u68	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Roman? I'm talking to you. Do you insist on voting? Thus, 23 amendments are put to the vote, and the committee has rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:59:16]] For-103 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we're done discussing all the rights. Now the closing word, two minutes, John Winnick, and we move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u69	Mr. Chairman, please be sure to place the status of 3rd, 4th, 5th, 3rd, 4th, 5th, partial. First. The other one. I would like, colleagues, to point out that this is a framework, fundamental law that requires, in particular, further changes to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code on the effectiveness of measures of coercion. We will be obliged to increase the budget, finance the State Border Service, because the territory for which they are responsible will be expanded. If we want an effective, effective control measure in this area, we will need to allocate additional resources to the State Border Service, but we understand that we cannot change neither the State Budget Act nor the Criminal Code nor the Criminal Procedure Code through the Final and Transitional Positions, so with this vote, please note, colleagues, that we need to assign to the Committees the immediate use of measures, in order for the committee's legislative function to develop relevant amendment bills, or perhaps Kamen will take care of it, we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u70	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm going to put to the vote those proposals that the committee's secretary, Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich, made under the transcript. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. Andrew, Andrew, please take your seats. I put to the vote the draft Act on the adjacent zone of Ukraine No. 8361 on second reading and in general with the amendments that the secretary of the committee, Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich, has made to the transcript. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[11:01:37]] For 217 What's going on, colleagues? Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 84, People's Front – 64, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 26. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. And it's a shame when we vote twice on this level and the weight of the bill! Please invite everyone to the hall. I'll put the first one on the vote of return. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Take up jobs. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Law on the Adhesive Zone of Ukraine (8361). Please vote and please support. We're voting for the return. [[11:02:54]] For the 220. Six votes. The factions, please. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'd like the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite everyone to the hall. Six votes, colleagues. Ukraine's security is not on the air to talk about security, but to be in the hall, to work and to vote. All the great supporters of Ukraine on the air. Please, colleagues! Heads of factions, invite us to the hall. So the first vote is the return. Come into the hall. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Adhesive Zone of Ukraine (8361). Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Every voice, we vote carefully. [[11:04:08]] For 240 We're back. I now put to the vote the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine (No. 8361), as amended by the transcript of Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich, on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:04:40]] For 244 The law is passed. Hello! My colleagues, I would like to remind you that on Monday at the Conciliation Council, I was asked by the head of the Committee on Tax Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna to clarify the 131 articles of the amendment to the Tax Code. I would like to remind you that on November 23, 18th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and in general the Act of Ukraine amending the Tax Code. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we have the right to eliminate certain inconsistencies in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given to you. But in order to explain them in more detail, I will give Nina Petrovni Jujanini a minute to speak, and then I will put her to the vote. Let me remind you that clarification takes place without discussion. I asked the chairman of the committee to have her talk to everyone earlier so that everyone would know what was going on. And I'm giving you one minute to do this, the word for Southern Nina Petrovney. And we're voting right now. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, when we voted in favour of Bill 9260 and after it was drafted for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, we found a number of errors, some errors and some comments by the legal authorities. I ask you to look at them. In view of the fact that, for example, 1 paragraph is a technical amendment, it is related to the fact that now in the current Tax Code two standards under paragraph 10.2. You have to change the numbering. The other one. Taking part of our colleagues' repairs into account, we counted it in such a way that we canceled the transfer pricing at all. Thus, the two following amendments apply precisely to the fact that the part of the text considered should be rejected. Next. We've talked to you about the fact that we have 7 percent of VAT on medicine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u72	How many minutes do you have? I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u73	Again, when the committee decided to move to the table distributed during the vote in the room, an error was made and the continuation of the 7 percent drug standard was rejected, although everyone was supported. Please note that this is an obligation for us to continue the reduced rate of 7 percent VAT on medicines. In addition, when I reported to the rostrum, there was one outstanding rule regarding exemption from VAT to scrap metal and another. Then our colleague approached me, we found out, the amendment was supported on the committee, and the hall was rejected, and we did not vote it out because we did not understand why it was rejected. And the last one is about. We had a change in the excise duty on winemaking. Since wine producers have already received excise taxes that ensure their work during January and February, we need to put in place a new standard: March 1, 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u74	Thank you. So we're going to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no discussion. No, I'm telling you, there's no discussion. Either we vote or we don't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then don't vote. I would like to point out once again that this is not an option. I therefore put to the vote the proposals that have been tabled for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve administration and review individual taxes and congregations. (No. 9260) Who supports the clarification of 131 articles, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:09:21]] For-198 Not supported are suggestions for tax refinement. It's gonna have to be signed. Colleagues, unforeseeable discussion. You were able to talk to the committee head before that. On Monday, I said, "Come to the head of the committee, talk to her." Once again, this form does not provide for discussion, this discussion can be done on the committee. Colleagues, I can put it again, but I don't see the potential. Come on, let's do it again. Who, in order to return to the examination of clarification, please vote. Who's to go back to the point? To the head of the committee, please suggest. For the return of the supporter, please vote. [[11:10:18]] For 193 An even smaller number of votes. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Law on Opposing Activities in Ukraine, Colleagues. An extremely important bill. It's larger, it's larger, it's larger. And I invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Ivan Yuliyovich, to report on the draft Law on Opposing Activities in Ukraine (No. 9081). Please report to Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the bill on humanitarian exchange has been drafted to offer our Western partners, who have advised us to introduce at the legislative level the experience Croatia had, after clearing the explosive objects of the territories as a result of the hostilities that have been and are over. Ukraine now has 7,000 square miles [7,000 sq km] of territory that needs such attention. It's millions or billions of dollars of money to be diverted in this direction, and so it's going to be pretty hard to get these countries back to a secure civilian life. The bill was developed in cooperation with the OSCE Organization in Ukraine, under a cluster of opposition activities of the United Nations, the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining. We were assisted by representatives of the United States Embassy, particularly the head of the Keith Bean military policy. The work was carried out by the Seven McDougall of the United States Embassy. The British Embassy also cooperated with us. And I would like to express a few thanks to individual experts from the committee -- Malinovska Jana Pavlovna and Natalija Mikolayovni's Home. We actually received a letter of support for the first reading of this project from a number of embassies that stressed the need for urgent implementation. In addition, we held working meetings with the OSCE, and as a result, we received a written direction that was fully implemented in the form of the working group's rights, which I led on the committee. In addition, he sent us a letter from the Red Cross, which also stressed the need to regulate the possibility that individual organizations that receive direct donor revenues from our Western partners could do the same in general. That's all counted. In fact, we have a balanced project for the second reading. There were 220 proposals for the project, of which 91 are fully included. Because we've been trying to do projects that have been going on about what's worth implementing the best of the alternatives to the base, and that's what we've done as much as possible. 10 counted partially, 16 counted editorially, 103 rejected. I'd like to go straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments. Enough, 200 amendments, as announced by the committee representative, have been made. Most of them, by the way, are counted by the committee. Enough of their proposals have been made by the authors of the alternative bill. Especially Mustafa Najem. And we'll start with that. Amendment number one. Are you insisting? Also yours, Mr. Mustafa, is the 12th amendment. Are you insisting? Thank you. 16th, Neda. Four. I'm sorry. Please, Paul Kishkar, 4th Amendment. It was part of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u77	Mr. Ivan, colleagues! In fact, we are expected to exchange not 7,000 acres [7,000 ha], but 8,000 acres [8,000 ha] in uncontrollable territory, as well as objects that will be exchanged after the Crimea’s invasion. And we also have to plan and plus this figure to those hectares that are actually now infected with explosive objects. I'll fix you about the support letters. The letters of support were sent to the Supreme Council, which dealt with the matter rather than, in particular, to this bill, so it's a bit of a lie. It's about four amendments. I insist that this is an internationally recognized definition. And I'm asking you to support my colleague with the same editorial that was proposed in my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Please comment to the committee. In fact, I would like to point out that Mr. Kishkar was the author of one of the alternative bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u79	My friend, I was talking about 7,000 square miles that are now in the order of the day. 9,000 square miles [9,000 sq km] will appear after the liberation of Donbas. And about the same territory may appear after the depopulation of Crimea. We don't know yet how it's going to be done, maybe in a voluntary way, and there's not going to be anything to clean up. But we understand that the amount of money that will be needed by Ukraine is extremely large, and we are obliged to implement this project that eliminates the effects of war. With regard to letters of support, the letter of support received a bill developed by the committee. But I want to assure you that your work has not been in vain either, and quite a lot of your work has been taken into account in the text for the second reading, so we don't happen to have 91 counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u80	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to make four adjustments. [[11:16:27]] For-84 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 28th. 8th. Please, Mr. Kishkar, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for noting our small contribution to this bill. I am truly grateful to those colleagues who, under your leadership, worked on the basic bill. As for amendment 8, once again, the terminology is taken and proposed for approval is not taken out of the air. This is a mere translation of that international base that is proposed for approval, into an existing law on antitrust in the future. And Amendment 8 says that by defining the definition of 'exchange'. This terminology is internationally recognized. And I ask my colleagues to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u82	Colleagues, I'd like to make an appointment for the 8th Amendment. The committee considered it in part, and the author insists on the full version. Please identify yourself. [[11:17:55]] For-100 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 20. 18th. Please, the People's Deputy Kishkara microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u83	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Nayem, if there's one. Not if there is a need to look at the revisions earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u84	I'm sorry, your 12th was, you said you didn't insist. And the 18th amendment is not yours. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Please, Kishkaru microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u85	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is about confirming the amendment of the 18th edition of John Vinnick in order to preserve the definition of "the quality assurance of demining". It really agrees with a certain terminology in the law. But conservation in a section defining the definition of the whole law is also important because the quality of the demining work will determine the further fate of the land. If we do not save, to what will we be bound, and what will result from the transfer of these lands to local authorities? Without that definition, the law actually loses its purpose. I'd like you to support my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u86	Colleagues, I emphasize that the 18th amendment is the amendment that the committee adopted, and its vote is balanced by the bill, Mr. Kishkar. Please, it's a microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Winniek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u87	Let me comment on the general principle of definition. We're in a working group that took place on 21.11.2018, where the representatives of the OSCE were represented, the embassies that I mentioned, as well as the Geneva Anti-Fraud Centre, second. The first point they pointed out was that there were too many definitions in the bill. They suggested that they cut down and refer to the International Mine Action Standards. In fact, by doing so, we have significantly reduced the number of definitions. That's what comes with your previous proposal -- always to refer to it, not to create certain difficulties in translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u88	Respectable. Thank you. I'm very, very much like the author of an alternative bill, which I've done a lot to get us to work on a professional law on anti-discrimination, thank you for a constructive, reasonable position. And what we hear from each other. We're moving on, colleagues. I would also like to point out that among the authors of the amendments are the National MP Neda, who is also the author of the alternative bill. Yuri Bereza, 28th Amendment He does not insist that we thank him very much. Oksana Sold, 33 repairs. Please, Mrs. Oksani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u89	Dear Irina Volodymyr, dear colleagues! I would like first of all to thank the committee for supporting our amendments to the rescinding of licensing and removing the duplication of operators that will work in this area. That's one part. And on the other hand, I want to declare and insist that the creation of additional organs, four additional organs, is not necessary, I am absolutely convinced. We have the Ministry of Defence today, we have the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Department, and at the same time, we are creating an authorized operational body, a centre for anti-trading operations, a National Centre for Opposing Operations and an authorized authority for anti-trading operations -- four bodies. How they're going to work, how they're going to help each other or hinder each other, both for me, who worked on this bill, it didn't make sense. So I am absolutely confident that there are so many new organs that we don't need to have a system of anti-resistibles working and freeing our land from weapons. Thank you very much. Please place this amendment to confirm as a principle of your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u90	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u91	Now, I'm going to ask the National MP Winnick's comment on your position first, Mrs. Oksana. And as the author of this bill, I want to point out that in Croatia, in other countries, which we have also taken as the basis for doing this law, it is the appropriate special authorities that are responsible for these powers. Please comment now, Mr. Winnick, and then we vote on the amendment of Oksana Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u92	Mrs. Oksana, you know, I, by the way, when we started working on this project ideologically, I had the same idea as you, that in Ukraine it was inappropriate to create additional organs, central organs, executive and functional powers, etc. But our Western partners have convinced us that, with a view to preventing any corruption risks, we need to create a really new, equidistant central authority of the executive, which will conduct exchange operations, which will conduct an appropriate register of accredited persons, who will perform control functions in the process of exchange and the finale of exchange, which will be authorized to sign acts of work done, etc. At the same time, it will not have any regulatory authority. Regulatory powers, I want to remind you that according to the Constitution this is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. But in order not to create an additional ministry and again not to create corrupt risks of trying to pull separate powers into this ministry, we created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u93	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u94	An equidistant college body, which was created in the Cabinet of Ministers system, which would not require any budget that would have the status of an advisory body that would work on draft regulatory decisions and that would be approved by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular the countries that would need to be cleaned, and the status of those lands, and accordingly all the decisions that would regulate the activity, the order of anti-discrimination activities that would already be carried out by the central executive body that we create.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Sir Ivan. Please. That's a lot. I ask you to put to the vote now the amendment of Mrs. Oksana Prodan and I ask you to determine on it and also note. Mrs. Oksano, while the vote is coming, the logic of our partners. 38 amendments, please be made. The logic of our partners who helped work out this bill is that we need to develop two bodies that will exchange and control each other so that they don't duplicate each other. [[11:24:39]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Next 50 revisions. People's MP Kishkar. Kishkar. Are you insisting? 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I really want to support Mrs. Oksana in what the law is. The main pretension of the law is the creation of incomprehensible, really, how much we wanted to understand in their function: NOPO, COPO, NPPO, UPR. Well, I don't think it makes any sense to insist on any further work. And John is going to explain to us the interaction of these four newly created organs, because the basic pretension of this law is that we have new positions, new bodies, and a newly created interaction that, in our subjective view, may not add to our anti-discrimination activity. Thank you. And I'm asking you not to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u97	Please, once again, dear Mr. John, explain to Mrs. Oksani, to our other colleagues and, in fact, to society, why it is really 4 new organs are being created, not two, performing and controlling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u98	My colleagues, once again, I'm not going to hide that this bill is the result of working together with a whole bunch of embassies. I showed you this letter before I first read it. And this is the appendix to a letter called My action guidelines that we've been guided by. And in this letter, we're talking about the fact that we need to create two separate institutions. In fact, we've only created one institution, and the other is an advisory body in the Cabinet of Ministers. One that would be involved in regulatory policy is the National Mine Action Sorority, the other is the National Mine Action Center. One is preparing regulation in this area, the other is involved in operations in this area. Indeed, this work could be entrusted to any other central authority: the Ministry of Defence, as suggested by you and at the suggestion of Mrs. Oksana, or the Ministry of Occupied Areas, as contained in Mr. Nedava's alternative project. But the requirement of our Western partners to open up funding in this direction, and we realize that the cost of the state budget is essentially the amount and scale of work that is needed, we can't pull it now, they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u99	Thank you for your clarification. The author does not insist on voting. Next, 51st, Victor Pinzenik, then yours is 53rd. Please, Victor Mikhailovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, if we want to have a result, appoint someone responsible. Put two in charge, there won't be a result. There are not even two responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, if we believe that a negative activity is important, the minister who is a member of the government is responsible for it. Any other body, the governing body is not a member of the government. I'm not going to put an order on the vote. My proposal will be this: to pass the rules that apply to the management of counter-action for third reading, to consult with the government, because in fact it is his responsibility to identify the problems that arise in the discussions with the management of anti-discrimination activities. So all of the rules, because even our Oxana regulations don't solve the problem, the rules that apply to the management of the anti-activities are passed on to the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u101	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u102	Everything about humanitarian activity, humanitarian demining, I'm sorry, it's about public security in our country. For public security in Ukraine, according to the Constitution, the government is responsible as a collective body, a political body in particular. A single minister can't be held accountable because all decisions are taken by the government: regulations, regulations that are legal in nature, they are taken by the government collectively. And I want to stress that the important things that concern public security: the polluted land, the cleansed land, their status, the order of accreditation, the order of licensing -- it's all about the rule of law of government, and the central authority of executive power that executes them will have a leader. And there are two forms of responsibility in Ukraine: one form -- a person, it can be criminal, administrative, disciplinary, functional, and so on, and all these forms of responsibility rely on the head of the central executive body, who will be responsible for the opposing operations, and there are others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u103	Please finish 30 seconds, it's an important topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u104	political responsibility. We don't have a collective form of criminal responsibility yet, so the government will be able to bear solely political responsibility for its wrong decisions if they are, in part, humanitarian demining. And the experts who prepared the draft decisions and put their personal signatures in place, and if these draft decisions were falsified or deliberately criminalized, they would be criminally liable. So I think it's very clear that everything is in place. And by the way, it's not this law, it's c.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, please. Victor Mikhailovich does not insist on voting. It was an exchange of views about the government's responsible body. The next amendment is 53, the Patron of the People's Deputies. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u106	I'm now supporting Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. The point is that the newly created organs are just as collective. And the point is, if John says that we provide criminal responsibility or administrative responsibility to people who do not perform a function, then the newly created organs are also collective. Once again, there will be collective irresponsibility. That's by commenting on your answer to Pinzenik's proposal. As for 53, there's a clear definition internationally accepted. It actually represents a definition that's confirmed, well, it's given for the second reading. But clarification applies only to the population of Ukraine. And I ask my colleagues to support my definition of the law for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u107	Please vote 53, colleagues. [[11:31:37]] For-96 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 66th. People's MP Kishkar. National MP Kishkar, 66th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u108	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, we say that there are subjects of opposing activity. The proposed edition, however, removes the definition of objects of opposing activity. And if we're not talking about the end-of-the-day goal of counter-action is to clean up an area and transfer it to the appropriate authorities of local self-government or government authorities, if such land is part of the knowledge and authority of the relevant ministries and central executive authorities, then what is the subjective side of this activity? Who's going to do this? We specify clearly and define: "entities of anti-discrimination activities – ministries, other central executive authorities and state bodies, local executives and local self-government bodies, inter-ministerial co-ministerial bodies, the Centre for Opposing Operations, Business and Organizations, regardless of the form of ownership." Why not leave it? I don't understand. On the contrary, it may be necessary to extend this subjective aspect, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u109	Thank you. I'd like to make a number of 66 amendments. [[11:33:11]] For-92 The correction is being rejected. Guys, we're moving on to the 2nd article of the law. And now, please, 70 revisions. Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u110	72 there's an amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u111	70th is yours. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u112	I don't insist. 72-a, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u113	Then 72nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u114	I believe that this is not the subject of this article, but it is the subject of an article. which determines the authority of the national authority. I'd like to go back to the organs that we're creating right now. We talked about this on the committee: creating bodies that are actually inter-ministerial, which will include representatives of different other ministries and central executives, will lead to what might be working now, and in the future, such collective bodies will not work. We understand how all other institutions treat the interdisciplinary bodies, including ministries, and including the services that we now include. So I would suggest that we go back to the question that the governing bodies that will define and implement the program that we are now defining are still separate. Let's talk about that. Indeed, it is a question. And by the way, no one consulted the government on this issue. And there were meetings with the Ministry of Defense, there were meetings with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and no one told the government and the secretary how it would work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u115	Please comment to the committee head. And I would like to pay particular attention to the specific consultations that have been conducted with the government, because in fact, the government has been working with, including with the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Areas. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u116	My colleagues, once again, I would like to return to my explanation. We're creating only one central executive body, and there's going to be a supervisor working. It's called the Opposing Operations Center, as defined in the law. And we're also creating the National Opposing Center. It's really a collegial interdisciplinary body in the Cabinet of Ministers system that's going to propose draft decisions to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval, to develop draft decrees. Such interdisciplinary bodies work as in the government system, for example in determining the consequences of Russian aggression, damage, and so on, and have proved their effectiveness. Because the total amount of lawsuits now exceeds the $20 billion of the United States that have worked on these organs. Such bodies, interlocutors, work effectively in the National Security and Defence Council system, for example, for the Defence and Industrial Commission, for military and technical cooperation, for expert control. Why did she come here? Because our colleagues Western partners asked that this body be made up of civilians, persons who do not have the status of civil servants. But how.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u117	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u118	But how can we bring civilians into the system of government, all the more with authority? So, indeed, in order of democratic and civil control, which many in this room have insisted on, we will also allow representatives of associations who will engage in anti-discrimination activities, representatives of civil society, representatives of non-governmental organizations, non-profits. And this is not going to bring about a balance between our legislation and not go against the Constitution. At the same time, they will perform their function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u119	Please be sure to make 72 adjustments. [[11:36:45]] Z-87 The correction is being rejected. 73 revisions, Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u120	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill that needs to be adopted, and I hope that the discussion of finding a compromise between the creation of a central executive body, the absence of some control, which is at the expense of possible abuses, it will resolve this effectively and there will be either a third reading, as colleagues insist, or the rights to second reading will be resolved. When we discussed with our "Paternity" faction colleagues today, we came to the conclusion that there are some observations to this bill, and hopefully they will be resolved because it is a question. We have no doubt that Donbas will be returned, that Crimea will be returned. And the issue of variable activity, they need to be prepared in advance today in order to make sure that the appropriate funds go in so that the professionals are trained. So we're going to return Donbas, we're going to return people, we're going to return our infrastructure and educational institutions. We support this bill after the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u121	Please identify 73 amendments. [[11:38:12]] For-96 96. The correction is being rejected. Next, 75th. Don't you insist? Please, it's Najem's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u122	Look, we have this whole article 3, it's all here, John. It is defined in the preamble. Why are we reiterating the definition of opposing activity in article 3 already within the law if this is defined in the preamble? It's suggested that we just shut it down and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u123	Please identify yourself for the 75th Amendment of Mustafa Nayem. [[11:38:57]] For-78 The correction is being rejected. The next is 95th, and so is Mustafa Nyem. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u124	Look, in general, I support it. That is what Irina added to this article, and we added. The only problem is that we point out in this article about secondary special education. Since anti-discrimination activities will involve foreign professionals who may not have secondary special education, and since this article does not say anything about higher education, it turns out that a person who has a higher education without a special secondary education, or a person who has no special secondary education abroad, will not be able to be involved in the preparation of documents, including the implementation of a strategy for anti-discrimination activities. So I suggest you just rule it out or put it out in the way we say it. So not to mention secondary education, especially since we don't have that kind of secondary special education, just anti-discrimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u125	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u126	We agree with you, Mr. Mustafa. And we put in a new article 7 in general, and for all of these qualifications, we literally wrote this: "actions in the field of anti-activities are carried out with the involvement of professionals in the sphere of anti-activities whose requirements are defined by national standards." The Cabinet of Ministers will approve the secondary, higher education of any kind. That's why there's no conflict here with your proposals. We're not going to set such details at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u127	Don't you insist on voting? Please read article 96. 96, I'm sorry. The committee counted it. This is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Winnick. Taras Shepherd requires that she be put to the test. Please, it's Shepherd Taras' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u128	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction. It's the law, it's the law, it's not about Ukrainian citizens, it's not about our territory, it's not about mines. And this law is about the money that will be allocated from the state budget, which is filled by taxpayers, Ukrainians, and it's the money that comes from the corresponding donors. And it's actually a very important question, exactly how these costs are going to be spent, how these costs are going to be controlled, how effectively they're going to be used. And that's why we've been insisting from the very beginning on this bill that this mechanism should be as transparent and controlled as possible. And so when even the funds that will be involved from the donors, to our belief, they still have to be involved on competitive grounds and identify a better operator that will carry out the tasks that are defined by the law. Therefore, I request no support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u129	Please comment with the author of the amendment. The committee counted it. Please, Mr. Ivan. It's for confirmation. This is for confirmation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u130	My colleagues, in fact, it's quite a lot done to make it all transparent. We offered all the funds of the state budget, the special fund of the state budget, international donors that direct them through sources of income to the state budget, to redefine the system in a transparent way for those objects to be financed, and for those jobs or services to be financed. And all of this will be done by the Opposing Operations Center and responsible for it, the manager will be responsible. But we have several directions and several functions that are directly funded by the government of Finland, the government of Switzerland, the government of the United States. And according to their request, we have written down certain features that they have the right to determine the subject directly and to provide donor funds directly to individual subjects. It won't go through the government budget. And they insist that only questions of accreditation, licensing, acceptance as.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u131	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u132	This applies exclusively to direct funding of individual subjects. This is because of the insistence of the governments of the United States, Finland, and Switzerland. And this specialty applies exclusively to individual transactions that do not come into the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to determine for the 96th Amendment. The committee secretary asks her to support her. It's about confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:48]] For-93 The correction is being rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the right-wing authors. We have a high concentration in the hall right now. We would do well to vote by 12 o’clock. After 12:30, it takes some time for the MPs to concentrate. And so if it's not a principle, it's not important, I know that most people in this room support the law, and we've been waiting for it for a long time. So if you can, right-wing authors don't insist on each of them. And I ask the representative of the committee of John Winnick, perhaps not every one of them to comment. Let's make it more effective by the time we make the decision. Thank you. And I hope you can hear me. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Mustafa Najem, if you have any changes to your principles, raise it, give me a signal. Amendment 113, Illenka. Don't insist. We're in the 120s now, colleagues. It's just for your orientation, I'm telling you, for your orientation, that's 120. We're moving on, I'm looking, there's a lot of changes in Mustafa Nyem, he doesn't insist. Now, colleagues, we're moving. Now, we haven't made it to 166 yet, so I'm watching so we don't miss anything. If no one insists on their amendments, 166th, please. Now 166th, then we go back to 117th. Please have 166 amendments, and Kishkar is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u136	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Indeed, we are trying to isolate the standardization of anti-optimal activity in a certain area of control, including this law. We insist that the position of the article does not meet the requirements of Ukrainian law on technical regulations and conformity assessment and on the accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. That's exactly what the Chief Scientific Expert insisted on. We, the only thing in this amendment, specify and clearly define governance as a way of carrying out measures of anti-activities. This definition is directly in line with international standards of antitrust. I would like all my colleagues to support the article I have proposed. Thank you. This is 24 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u137	Please identify 166 amendments, colleagues. [[11:46:39]] For 106 The correction is being rejected. We missed 117 because it's considered by the committee. This is an amendment by the authors: Heratchenka, Ionova, Friz. The shepherd’s national deputy requires confirmation. Please, Mr. Shepherd. 117th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! Actually, I'd like to contact the committee secretary. Because we've always asked questions, and even when we passed the National Security and Defence Act, we even instructed the government to develop a separate law that would allow the Supreme Council to carry out more effectively the role of parliamentary control over the national security and defence sector. Regrettably, the adoption of the Safety Act abolished this parliamentary control and the new law was not worked. As a result, by adopting the Anti-Action Act, there should be criteria for how Parliament will control the activity. As a result, there is no new norm in the law to empower Parliament. This is the amendment that rewrites the mandate of the Constitution, the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. And so if there's a novelty going on here that's not prescribed in another legislation, name it. Or there is no need simply to copy certain laws in other laws. So I suggest we cancel this amendment and we find out that in this law, the Supreme Council's control.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u139	Please finish. Give me 15 seconds. Mr. Ivan, your comment. May I allow 30 seconds as the author of the amendment? Dear colleagues, in fact Mr. Winnick has already pointed out the following, that the practice of writing laws of Ukraine, yes, it is such that we are setting in law the standard that applies to the new law. And I would ask you, Mr. Shepherd, to pay attention to the sixth paragraph of this amendment. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Rules, can indeed formally call for the presence and reporting, in fact. If we rule out this rule, we're actually weakening our control functions. It was our logic as authors. Now, please, the secretary of the committee. I'd like to ask you not to insist on voting. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u140	First of all, with regard to the implementation of the National Security Act, we're really sorry to say that before. For now, the Cabinet of Ministers has not passed a bill on the establishment of a supervisory committee. And as co-chair of the committee working group, I would like to inform you that if this does not happen by 20 January 2019, the relevant bill, a separate bill for the creation of a separate Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council, will be proposed as a deputy. And we invite the Self-Help faction to join in its development. As for the substance of the amendment, we have, by the way, given some of the custom functions in the Supreme Council at the suggestion of the authors. For example, note paragraph 4 that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the anti - anti - anti - anti - activities program of the Cabinet of Ministers established by the national authority. If we reject this amendment, we will weaken the Supreme Council. I don't deny it, maybe it's the right thing to do, but we tried to raise this level of decision-making to a completely different level.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u141	Dear Mr. John, Mr. Taras, allow me to address you as the author. If we had a different norm, for example, from you as the author is prescribed as an amendment, I would agree that, for example, your amendment is stronger, and let's just write it down. Now, in my opinion, as the author of this amendment, co-authored by Irina Friz and Maria Ionova, we will weaken parliamentary control. We find here that Parliament has the right to control the work of the newly created organs. And here I don't see, well, frankly, no need to weaken the Supreme Council, there's a contradiction here, I think. Once again, we ask you not to ask for confirmation. Thank you very much for the constructive conversation we have just had with you, thank you very much, Mr. Taras. Mr. Taras doesn't insist on voting for this amendment, we'll find out that it doesn't exactly reduce the authority and control functions of the Supreme Council, but it does increase a little bit, but it does. Yeah. Let's move on and thank everyone for the design. 174th, Paul Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And I support you in that the preservation of parliamentary control functions is an important part of this law. I think the 174th edition of the 26th article will still preserve the integrity of Ukrainian legislation in the field of certification and monitoring. We have a whole series of problems with this balance because the control function can't be performed by one of the components of the opposing activity center. It's a little absurd when I'm in charge of my own compliance. I think that the preservation of existing legislation, in particular the central executive authorities, where it's clearly defined by the authorities that control the conduct of anti-discrimination activities and the further transfer of these lands to the relevant authorities, I think it's worth saving, and the proposed revision, well, to clean up, in fact, the 174th proposal to exclude the 26th from the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Please identify 174 amendments, colleagues, please. [[11:52:37]] For-99 The correction is being rejected. The next two amendments are Paul Kishkar, 185th and 186th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u144	We continue to insist that certification of anti-discrimination operators can be carried out under active legislation. I understand that lack of time and actually will insist on voting, supporting or not supporting the proposed regulations. Our amendment refers to the definition of Article 29 "Certificate of Opponent Operators". We insist that this formulation be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, in turn, we put to the vote Amendments 185 and 186 concerning the operator of the activity. Let's determine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:35]] For-96 185's off. 96. 30 seconds. Now, 30 seconds, 186th, then you, then Mustafa. I'm watching everything. Please, Kishkar, it's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, it is said that the proposed article 30 of the law provides for the order of monitoring of operators of antitrust activities. In fact, that order of operator certification and accreditation for this activity is largely provided for online monitoring. Already in the third millennium, there is no need for other forms of monitoring and control. You've gone through the accreditation, you've got the technical tools, and the people are there, you've come and you've got the appropriate certification, so you have the technology that can do this work, the monitoring is done online. This is your commitment to your accreditation requirements. So please support 186.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u147	I'd like to make a determination for 186 amendments. [[11:54:49]] For-98 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, John Vinnick, Secretary of the Committee, ask us to return to 183 amendments. It's his amendment, it's taken into account by the committee, but there are some technical notes. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u148	Here's a technical note, a technical note in the fourth column: a paragraph that has been counted as the second, it has to be made as the third. So for a transcript for the committee, for the secretariat, I'd like to read out what. For the transcript, note that number 183 refers to the second paragraph. Therefore, the first paragraph should remain in the final line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u149	Thank you. You're just saying that under the transcript, and we're not voting on this amendment. Right? Thank you very much. 199 amendment, National Deputy Mustafa Nayem. Colleagues, I'd like to address all the national MPs who are in the towers. We have literally three or four amendments left, and we are going to vote on an important bill. Please return to the session room. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u150	Colleagues, I'm trying not to get involved in other amendments, but this is a very important story about licensing activities. Listen, we're introducing 6 or 7 more activities, we just need to be licensed. We suggest that we give. This is amendment number 199. You realize that you are doing this: The provision of services to teach you how to resist the risks associated with explosive objects should be licensed by a particular activity. You can't do that. We suggest that this may make it easier for foreigners to help us, to give us permission. If they have equipment, certificates that they do, let's give them permission. Why are we creating a bunch of other activities that need to be licensed? It's just a corrupt window we're opening now. Look at the 199 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u151	Please, Mr. Winnick, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u152	First of all, we don't interfere with the law on licensing, and there are appropriate regulations. Secondly, we leave the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the final list. We're just talking in the spheres where we're offering the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to them. This is not necessary, especially when it comes to de-mining, it's informing the population, it's doing treatments, it's rehabilitating the wounded. Because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u154	The license doesn't seem like what you're saying. For professional activity, there is accreditation for professional activity. The license simply checks, and the license just checks to see if there is a registration of the owner. By the way, subjects: NGOs, for example, non-profit organizations, there, grant organizations -- they, who are not operators within our legislation, will not be licensed at all? There's a corresponding exception, it was made for it in the law. So I don't see any problems in this context.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u155	Please define 199 amendments. Please make up your mind, colleagues. [[11:58:09]] For-98 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we have two amendments left. I'm asking you to come back to the session room right now. 202 revisions. Kishkar’s national MP does not insist on her vote, but he demands words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for allowing me to comment. In general, the law is needed and must be maintained, or the system will not be created. A wide range of issues, including corruption, and the newly created bodies, have aroused the desire not to vote or support the bill. I think that the possibility of redrafting this law with a second, second reading will allow us to create a whole system of anti-discrimination activities. Thank you, colleagues, and please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u157	Please comment to the committee secretary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u158	I would like to assure you right away, colleagues, that if even today, I hope, we will make a responsible political decision -- we will take this bill, by the way, on Armed Forces Day, very important as an actual marker of Ukraine's beginning to win, we already have areas to clean up in the order of humanitarian exchange. We will need it to work later, to make changes to Ukraine's budget for the following year and to the Budget Code. And by the way, if we get any comments when we publish it, we make it public, we get some feedback on the text, it's a complex activity profile, we can then use the End and Transition Bill to make changes to the budget or to the Budget Code, there's no limit, to subject it. But we cannot delay adopting this act today. It's a marker, an important step for it to take place this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u159	Thank you. I just want to confirm and join these words of the Secretary of the Professional Committee, and remind ourselves that we are now fighting not only to make the treatment of anti-competitive activities and to displace all central and regional authorities more responsible. But we're also fighting for our partners to contribute more actively to technical assistance, including equipping our respective subunits with a bomb squad. And the requirements of our partners are that there should be appropriate legislation that will match Croatia's experience, the experience of European countries, and appropriate structures. And it should definitely not be the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which will be responsible for this activity, for this activity. And that's why we're putting parliamentary control here. If Taras Shepherd, who has pointed out that parliamentary control needs to be strengthened, then changes to the law that has been passed, I'm sure, and we'll see that there's a need here, sorry, we'll do it. The last amendment is 218th. Mr. Pinzenick is putting her on the stand for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u160	Colleagues, I've got a 15-minute session to resume. Everyone, please remain seated. We're two minutes away from making a decision. He went on for 15 minutes. In two minutes, the decision will be made. And then you'll have to get into the agenda of the day session. Please, Mr. Victor. Turn on Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! I have a document in my hands called the Law, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 116: Proposals and amendments to a second-reading bill may only be submitted to the text of a bill adopted by the Supreme Council on a basis. The 218th amendment has no relation to the text of the law adopted in the first reading. If the author of the bill thinks that the norm needs to be settled, let him pass a separate law. So I ask you to comply with the requirements of the law. Place this amendment on confirmation and do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u162	Thank you. I'm about to give Mr. John a word. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u163	This law applies to the United Nations Deployment and Operation Law, which is now in the process of countering and deterring armed aggression. In a contingent that is now taking measures to contain the aggression of the Russian Federation, doctors, military doctors, and not only military, civilian, and people who are simply working with a medical profession at will. We are obliged to extend full social protection to them, just as we have extended to military personnel, volunteers, and others involved. They are obliged to receive adequate payments from the State in case of injury. If, God forbid, he dies, the family has to get these payments. If it happens, there will be death from an injury one year after that injury, the same payments should be received. This proposal was dictated and proposed by two deputies: Svetlana Zalitschuk and always urged by Mrs. Korczynska. I understand that this is a violation of the Rules, but I am equally aware that this has to be settled today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u164	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 218. The committee's asking her to support it. Who supports Amendment 218, please vote. Please vote. [[12:03:47]] For-123 It's not a decision, colleagues. So now the closing word. We're done discussing the rights. In a minute, let's move on to the decision-making process, colleagues. It's a fine law. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the voting room. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please close in two minutes, John Vinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u165	My colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all those involved in this text. These are both the authors and co-authors of this bill, these are the experts, these are our Western partners, these embassies that helped us, these right-wing authors, these civil society -- these are all the people who care about the fate of our country, which today is suffering from the consequences of the war that we are obliged to eliminate. In the order of voting for second reading as a whole, I ask you to back up the readjustments 18, 38, 96 and 218 so that you don't balance the text and take into account all the comments and suggestions, particularly those that we have received from our Western partners. Please vote in favour of the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u166	Thank you. So first we're going to go back to the right: the 18th, the 38th, the 96th and the 218th. So, colleagues, first take up jobs, please. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. First, I'm putting the vote back on the 18th, 38th, 96th and 218th. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. Please support the committee. [[12:05:47]] For a hundred and I didn't go back to the right. And that's why I'm putting, colleagues, draft legislation without taking these rights into account as a result of the discussion. I'm asking you to take your jobs, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Colleagues, the law is followed by both Ukrainian society and our Western partners. It's important to our citizens who live near the line of delimitation so that we can exchange land and bring it back to the local communities. So I ask and urge everyone to uphold the law. So I'm voting on the draft Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine (No. 9080-1) on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote and please support. We support our citizens, we support Ukrainian soldiers. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:07:05]] For 217 Guys, we didn't make it. I'll put it back, except I don't understand the logic. We've thrown all the issues out. I ask, colleagues, to enter the hall and heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall. The factions, please. I see they're coming in. According to factions: "Block of Petra Prashenko" – 93; "National Front" – 69; "Opposition Block" – 0; "self-help" – 1; Radical Party – 14; "Fatherhood" – 11; "Will of the People" – 2; "Rebirth" – 12; non-fractional – 15. Colleagues, over a year, the working group has been preparing this project. For over a year, we were preparing for his acceptance. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take a responsible part in the vote. My colleagues, so I'm going to set up a return first, and then again in general. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Don't joke about safety laws. I am asking to vote in favour of the return to the draft Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please vote and please support the return, colleagues. We support Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian citizens, we vote for the return. Vote, colleagues, arranged, responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:08:37]] For the 220. Six votes. I'll do it again. I want to say again, this bill is supported by our European partners. We can now read a letter from the EU Ambassador in support of this bill. Colleagues, Canada, and all of our partners, we can use this law to get funding for our services and to get the support of foreign services to demarcate our territories. So I ask everyone to take part in the vote. My colleagues, come into the hall. Do not discuss when making a decision. So I'm asking you to support, colleagues, the return to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (9080-1). I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to vote. We were short six votes. Please be supportive. Western partners are supportive. Let's show that the Ukrainian Parliament also supports Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian citizens. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote responsibly. [[12:09:59]] For 219 Seven votes, colleagues. Seven votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Please be careful! Stay where you are, don't leave the hall! Don't leave the hall. I'll give you 30 seconds. "Block of Petra Poshenka" - 102. Let's see the factions. People's Front - 71, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 1, Radical Party - 15, Father's Party - 9, People's Will - 2, Rebirth - 4, non-fractional - 15. Post-faction, more can be given, colleagues. Please read a letter from our European partners for 30 seconds, Mr. John. Short. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u167	I'd like to propose something else. I'd like to propose something else, colleagues. There are a lot of criticisms about licensing issues here, let's rule out the licensing of this activity by insistence. And then we'll support this law in that way. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm just gonna say I have to rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u168	Under the stenogram, please state clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u169	I'll tell you what, wait. Give me 30 seconds before the factions come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u170	We give you 30 seconds, you're very short, because people are going to break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u171	We won't vote if you throw it away. How can exchange works be done without proper qualifications and experience?Oh, my God! That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u172	Let's get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u173	I'll explain. Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u174	Colleagues, the people's deputies are here. Please. Colleagues, I'll put you first of all for the return. Seven votes, be in the workplace. So, colleagues, I'm going to put on a return without any right. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine 9080-1. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and please support the offer to return. Vote, fellows! Don't leave the hall. Auntie, come back. Please support the return. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:12:28]] For 219 Seven votes, colleagues. We can't stall, we have three minutes left. Seven votes. I see three people, three deputies, have entered the hall. Seven votes. Please, the heads of factions, mobilize the deputies. Seven votes is not enough to pass an awesome law. My colleagues, take your jobs, I'll put you back. So please, colleagues, support the proposal to return to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (9080-1). I ask everyone, every voice matters. Please support and vote for the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[12:13:32]] For 224 Two votes. I see two is in. Please take up jobs. 30 seconds, Vinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u175	Colleagues, we have two trials. One is accreditation, it really applies to qualification requirements, the availability of technology, and so on. And the license article that Mert is running, I suggest you rule it out. Article 31, in full scope: licensing of anti-discrimination activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u176	So, colleagues, two deputies came along. Take up jobs, colleagues, take up jobs. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 9080-1. Please vote and support. Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We support you, colleagues. [[12:14:41]] For 224 So, colleagues, 30 seconds, complete John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u177	Article 31, which regulates the licensing procedure, by the way, the Ministry of Economic Development, examines Quebec, the availability of labour, the director, and so forth, as other economic operators do. We're shutting it down and we're shutting it down all over the license line. This is a united proposal, please support. It doesn't balance this text. In any case, the exchange will be qualified.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u178	So I put to the vote a return to the draft Law on Opposing Activities, as amended by Winnik (9080-1). Please vote, please support, vote. Please support, we vote. [[12:15:45.]] For 238. We're back. Now I'm putting to the vote the draft Law on Opposing Activities (9080-1) with the readjustment that John Winnick made under the transcript, in the second reading, and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Every vote, I ask you to vote responsibly. [[12:16:14]] For 242 The law is passed, colleagues. Now I want to say that after lunch, we're going to go to the ratification that relates to the termination of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation. And after this ratification, it's going to be a day-to-day session. Irina Heratchenko will now read the message, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Several statements were made by our fellow members of the national deputies, who did not have a card in their ballots. So, National Deputy Dejday reports that his card did not work when he voted in favour of the Law on the Announcement of Natural Territories of the Kuyalna Lima District of Odessa by the resort of State importance, he voted in favour. The national deputy Golubov also asks to take into account that his card, his vote, was voted in favour of the bill on the declaration of the Kuhalnicka liman as a resort of State importance, and the card did not work. And so it came from Sergey Rudik that he voted in favour of Bill 8519d amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, the card didn't work. And it also called out to the Bezbach People's Deputy that his card voted in favour and did not work when amending the Tax Code, which we failed to vote on in any case. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u180	So I would stress that after the break provided for in the Rules, there will be a draft Act on the termination of the Treaty of Friendship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. I'm going to call it a break at 12:45. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. At 12:45, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u181	So, your honorary colleagues, the time for your break, is over. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. I want to let you know that we have a large block of inclusion in the agenda of the session, but we will put this block in place after considering the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. So we're going to look at this bill first, there's a reporter and there's two co-reporters, and then there's going to be a day-to-day session, this block that's scheduled for the day and we've had an opportunity to get to know it. But, colleagues, I want to remind you, there are several important security ratifications, there is also a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2019 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which concerns an international investigation mission from 28 July. The extremely important ratification that we should have accepted today is also the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine regarding the creation of a common military unit. And that's why it would be right, colleagues, if we were to consider ratifications under a reduced procedure. And so it is up to all to support such an offer, for otherwise we will not be able to pass these security laws that are foreshadowed today. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, get ready for the vote. I'll ask the room to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Please take up jobs. Heads of factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please invite deputies to the Hall. And I would like to remind you that in order for us to be able to go through the entire security and defence unit effectively, we would like to consider the simplified procedure. I emphasize that the words will be given to all: both to the reporter and to the coreporter, they will be given the word to all the factions. But this will allow us to save time from 1:00 a.m. to half an hour, and let us accept this ratification in the Netherlands, in Lithuania before noon. So please take up your jobs and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Come into the hall, please. Colleagues, the deputies of the columns are entering the hall. While the MPs are coming in, I want to welcome the students of the Chabel High School of Plains who are attending a tour of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome our children! [[Applause]] You are the success and the power and the great happiness! Welcome. So, colleagues, take up jobs, and I emphasize that the logic of addressing security issues needs quick and effective solutions, and I ask you to support the proposal to consider the draft Act on the cessation of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation to support the review of the shortened procedure so that we can go through all the security issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Paul, we're not gonna make it. We're not gonna make it to the Netherlands. We're not gonna make it to Lithuania. So, colleagues, support, it'll be wise, it'll be right. Please vote and please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, take up jobs! Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:51:04]] For 104 I'll do it again. If there are no votes, we'll go full. Come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 0206 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote! [[12:52:37]] For 112 Colleagues, so we don't have enough votes to consider the reduced procedure. So let's move on to the full procedure. And, dear colleagues, I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich on the report. Please report as tightly as possible, because we will not be able to look at the safety box. Please, Sergey Olegovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act on the Cessation of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, introduced by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council as an urgent matter. Among the materials given to you is an explanatory note explaining the need for it. So I'm just going to stop for a few moments. The 10-year term of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership, signed on May 31st, 97th and effective on April 1, 99th, ends on March 31st, 2019. His preamble describes the goal of strengthening the friendly relations of good neighbourliness and mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The treaty also established fundamental principles of cooperation between Ukraine and Russia, namely, sovereign equality, territorial integrity, political and economic independence, respect for international law. The Russian Federation has defiantly disregarded the fundamental principles of the treaty, including by violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity by committing armed aggression against Ukraine by applying military and economic pressure to intervene in Ukraine’s internal affairs, violating Ukraine’s sovereign equality and rights. Under these circumstances, and in the absence of good intentions for a peaceful settlement of disputes related to the numerous and gross violations of the treaty by the Russian Federation, the continuation of the treaty for the next 10-year period, the 19th to 29th years, is fundamentally impossible. The Russian Federation, in spite of all the efforts of Ukraine and of the world's societies, ignores calls for an end to international illegal acts, which, inter alia, violate all the essential provisions of the treaty, such as its articles: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 13, 17, and others. The Russian Federation refused to implement the instruments for the peaceful settlement of disputes provided for in article 7 of the Treaty and established by article 33 of the UN Statute, even though Ukraine was diplomatically addressing the Russian Federation with proposals for their use in the early stages of military aggression in the spring of 14. I stress that article 70 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts does not affect the rights and obligations of the Russian Federation and Ukraine that arose prior to its termination as a result of the implementation of the treaty. In accordance with article 40 of the agreement on behalf of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed the Russian Federation on 21 September this year of the termination of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation after the end of the next 10-year period on 31 March 19th. With a view to implementing the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine for the final completion of all internal procedures for the termination of the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Three minutes of questions. Please record the question. Ivan Krulko, please pass it on to Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u184	Thank you. Sergei Olegovich, I'd like to ask. Why the MLC's note on the termination of the treaty was sent to the Russian side in September, and the law is so simple, which is easier when you look at the texts of the MMS note and the texts of the bill proposed by the President, it's much simpler. Why did it take four months to prepare this simple text of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u185	Because according to the information I have from my colleague in court, we needed time to use this treaty to deal with certain cases. Especially those cases involving the 3 billion debt of the fugitive president, as well as some allegations relating to the use of international law of the sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u186	Head Mikhail Josipovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u187	I have a question. Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency. Tell me, what's preventing us from breaking this agreement now and not continuing, but waiting until April 19th? Because this question has been raised since the 14th year, that Russia is not a friend to Ukraine, but an enemy. By the way, I want to remind you that many people in this room have criticized us, "Freedom," that we were saying that Russia is not a strategic partner, but it is our nation's main enemy. But then you didn't listen, you didn't pay attention, and you said it was provocation. Thus today, many of these pink goggles have fallen out of their noses and have already seen the reality that it is an obvious enemy who hates us and who does everything to ensure that Ukraine does not take place as a state. And that's why today, for us, it's a sacred duty to finally solve the question and to put a dot. Russia is not a friend to us, but a strategic enemy. As long as this empire exists, there will be a struggle for our survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with your political assessment, most likely due to the assessment of the actions of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is not a friend of Ukraine. The Russian Federation is an aggressor state. But as I said before, this is not just a matter of political evaluation and not just an issue of emotional evaluation, it is also a matter of legal dynamics and our actions to protect Ukraine's interests in international legal institutions. So right now the moment has come when, really, it's impossible to tolerate what the Russian Federation is doing. And after we've done a lot of procedural work both in The Hague and in other institutions, that's why this bill is now being introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u189	Thank you. And the final question of Welcome. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u190	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Musia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u191	Dear reporter. Oleg Musei, National Control political party. Our political power has consistently been speaking since it was created for breaking up all relations with a terrorist country, which is the Russian Federation. Tell me, please, it's just something now, and you're commenting arbitrarily that now, from your point of view, it's time. Maybe the Ukrainian Parliament will determine when the time is right or not, and you should have been the initiator four years ago? But I have another question. The treaty, of course, I am convinced that we will break up, as if it were the face of our parliament. Why didn't you as responsible for diplomatic relations break up diplomatic relations with a terrorist country? Will you, too, determine that when a political moment comes to pass? Give an immediate break in diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u192	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy. I listened carefully to your political position. And I want to assure you that it will be taken into account in the study of the purpose of breaking up diplomatic relations. And it is certainly the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will decide to break the treaty. the termination of the treaty with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Sergio, thank you very much for the thorough presentation of the draft Law on the Cessation of the Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. We also thank you for the solid answers to the questions raised by the Ukrainian national deputies. Please return to your job as a member of the government. And now we have two alternative bills from our colleagues. Please, Andrew Illenko, I invite you to speak. And Mr. Andrew will present us Bill 0206-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u194	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, Freedom on March 1, 2014, at the very beginning of the Russian annexation of Crimea, with the mouths of the leader of Freedom, and then the heads of the "Freedom All-Ukrainian Union" faction in the Supreme Council of Oleg Tajnibok here in the walls of this House announced that immediate and urgent steps must be taken to stop Moscow aggression and victory. In particular, we were still demanding the introduction of a state of war, we demanded the dissolution of a treaty called a friendship, a so-called friendship with the Russian Federation. We demanded the termination of all agreements with the aggressor country, we demanded the cessation of trade, we demanded the closure of the border, the destruction of the pro-Moscow 'fifth column' and many other things that had not been done for years, thereby aggravating the situation of Ukraine and, in fact, disarming our state in front of the face of Moscow aggression. Today, it's like there's some particular position that we've been saying all these years, the years of war, they're kind of starting to be a sense of power. But it's too late and, unfortunately, half the decisions. Surely we must break this shameful covenant of friendship. And I want to say that just a few months ago, literally a few months ago, we've heard statements, especially by President Prashenko, that we can't break this treaty, that it would be a pity for Ukraine, that we would lose some legal position there, and so on. Well, at last, we realized that the position had changed, we were always, it turns out, always right, and accordingly all of this criticism was completely irrelevant and unconfirmed by real arguments. But at the same time, what is our alternative bill that I'm presenting today in Hall 0206-1. He's called on to systematically solve this problem. Because once again, breaking up a friendship agreement is an obvious step, self-explanatory. What friendship can we have with the country that occupied our territories, which killed more than 10,000 of our fellow citizens and continues to kill them? What are we talking about? Clearly, long ago it is necessary to do so. But in our bill we suggest breaking all agreements with the aggressor state. We think that, in principle, the aggressor state should not have any, we should not have any contractual relations with it. Because it's funny, if it's an aggressor state, and it's an aggressor state, if it's fighting us, how can we have some kind of relationship with that country? What kind of agreements can we have? They've broken all the contracts. They broke all the arrangements. They showed, as it has always been said, that any treaty signed with Russia is not worth the paper on which it is signed, they repeatedly show it. All the contracts that we still have with the Russian Federation, with the aggressor state, they're all broken by Russia, absolutely all without exception. That is, in fact, Ukraine is now unilaterally fulfilling these obligations, which is a nonsensus, which is absurd. And according to all the rules, including international law, we need to adopt a decision today and we urge the people's deputies to adopt a decision to break all agreements with the Russian Federation, with the aggressor state. We offer a specific legal mechanism to ensure this. I would also like to say that this bill is not new. We offered to do this many years ago in this vocation. The MPs from Freedom, according to my signature, under the signature of Yuri Levchenk, under the signature of Oleg Osuhovsky, Michael Gołk, Alexander Marchenka, we submitted these bills, we demanded consideration of these issues - it was blocked, it was not considered, it seemed that it was not necessary for time. There are movements now, but they're not enough, they need to be done more, they need to be done faster, they need to be done more fully. Again, I would like to say separately about diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. There is no argument that this so - called diplomatic relationship should be preserved. It's absolute anachronism and nonsensence that they still exist. After everything that happened, after the occupation of Crimea, after the war on Donbas, after the killings of thousands of Ukrainian citizens. What kind of diplomatic relationship might this be? What's more, now that a state of war has been introduced, which, unfortunately, is more eloquent than real. Yet, war conditions have been introduced. What diplomatic relations can be involved? It's nonsense. We're asking the government, we're asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the President in charge of foreign policy, to approve the decision. Because it's unthinkable. How can we explain in the outer arena that there is a war going on in our country, that our citizens are being killed, that international law is being grossly violated, that Russia is doing it, but at the same time having a diplomatic relationship with that State, with the aggressor state? When they talk about the protection of our political prisoners, more specifically, I apologize, not the political prisoners, but our political hostages and our captives who are in Russian captivity, because a political prisoner is not the right definition, a political prisoner -- it is when a man has suffered for political views in his country, in this case they are political hostages and they are prisoners of war when it comes to protecting them, we have to understand that, unfortunately, there is little that our diplomatic representatives will do, with all due respect to them. Because Russia is not a state of law, because it is a state where laws do not work, where international law does not work. And the only way to free our hostages is to exchange them, including the Moscow 'fifth column', which, in particular, sits in this room, which, in particular, sits in other organs of power, which is now in the middle of undermining our state. An effective fight against the Moscow 'fifth column' is the main way to free our hostages, and of course everything must be done for their liberation. But diplomatic relations need to be broken. And so it should be one of the first steps, back in 2014, as "Freedom" demanded. Today we need to understand that we cannot sit on two chairs. We can't create such a schizophrenic situation when we understand that war is coming, there's aggression against our state, our Armed Forces, our forces, our volunteer battalions were holding back and holding back the aggression of the Russian Federation, but at the same time we have trade, but we have diplomatic relations, we have some kind of agreements. We need to understand that this situation creates an abnormal state in the state itself. It undermines our ability to argue our position in the international arena, and this must be completed. You have to stop any trade relationship with the Russian Federation, you have to shut down the entire border from the aggressor country, you have to take all those steps to fight the real struggle, with the fifth column, and not to negotiate power with it, like all these years and how it is now. And for that to happen, it's been a long time and it has to be done now. That is why I urge today to vote in favour of ending all agreements with the Russian Federation, as proposed by the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. And then we will understand that this is a step that deserves respect. And this is the step that shows that there is actually a Ukrainian Parliament, that this is the Ukrainian Supreme Council, which in wartime adopts adequate decisions to the situation that has arisen, and does everything to protect the national interests of the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the National Deputy Illenka. Please, Mrs. Scrum, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u196	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Your Honor, I have a question for you. In fact, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk and other colleagues from different factions suggested that the specific provisions of this disgraceful treaty be terminated by Bill No. 5 in this sessionary. The Council was convened, and that was at the beginning of 2015. And then in the transcript of the Committee's meeting in foreign affairs, you could hear the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where in the transcript of 25.03.2015, Mrs. Xerkal made it very, very clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly opposed the repeal and specific provisions of this law and the annulment of this Cooperation Agreement, partnership and so-called friendship with the Russian Federation. This was related to the fact that it would seem to be a violation of the Minsk Treaties, as if a violation of the legal basis between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. And then only two members of the committee voted in favour. What do you now associate with such a sharp change, four months before the election, the position of the ICC, the President of Ukraine and all of his supporters, who called us "Moscow's hand" with you, four years, if you ask me to stop this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u197	Can I have your answer, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u198	Thank you for asking. I fully support your words. I remember very well the position of Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who, as a professional diplomat with great experience, clearly argued that it is unthinkable to have diplomatic relations with the aggressor country. And I fully confirm that this issue was raised in the 14th year, it was one of the first issues of this convening of parliament. All this time, the authorities and personally President Peter Poroshenko said that you can't do this, that it's provocation, it's going to hurt, it's bad and it's like that. Why I have changed my mind, I find it difficult to say. That's probably what they need to ask them, their position. Although, you see, half of it: on the one hand, they say the Friendship Agreement has to be annulled, although it's obvious (well, what friendship, it's just a stupid thing), but at the same time, diplomatic relations cannot be broken. There was a declaration even after the war. Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Diplomatic relations cannot be broken. Military status is in place, and diplomatic relations cannot be broken! So it's too late and it's half the decisions, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u199	Thank you. I would like to draw the attention of those who ask questions and call them to political correctness. I understand that we have members of the opposition leader's team, one of the leaders of the opposition. Well, the President doesn't have a cohort, he's got a team. I'm asking you to use the correct language. Okay? This all the time refers to the same faction that allows itself to be kept completely irresponsible. As a member of the team, I want to say that we're members of the team, not "captors." Understand? Thank you very much. Please, National Deputy Musai, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u200	Your Honor, I would like to confirm not only the position that is absolutely correct that you have declared in your bill to break up all relations with the terrorist country completely, but also the political party "National Control", the four national deputies present here, and the political party "UKROP" present here, and the many patriotic forces that are present in Parliament, the National Movement of Ukraine -- they stand clearly in your position, including. I also know the position of the Radical Party and the Fatherland and Self-Help. In fact, Ukrainian patriotic forces fully support this initiative -- the breakup of all relationships. But it turns out that there's some sort of individual team of acting president now that I'm asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the breakup of diplomatic relations is saying that we're going to re-examine this issue. Now, this team is saying that it's probably not necessary to break up diplomatic relations. Where is the statement by the leader of the political party, and where is the President's statement? Where is she? She's gone! Therefore, the Ukrainian people must see this spineless position. Comment on her, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u201	Please have your answer, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u202	This position is shameful, it goes against the national interests of Ukraine and common sense, and I agree with you completely. There is no argument for this position. And this, of course, shows that there is no comprehensive and consistent policy to protect national interests on the part of today’s authorities. I would like to say about what you said on the grounds that you listed a number of political forces, which, in particular, in this Parliament, support the same position, particularly those supported by Freedom. It's very good that there's such a common position. And I think that everything needs to be done in order for the Ukrainian Parliament today to show its determination to defend the interests of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state. Since Ukraine is already tired of making half the decisions, it is necessary to adopt decisions that will clearly and unequivocally work for the Ukrainian victory, which will clearly and unequivocally work for our national interest. The half that lasts all these years must be completed with it, because it leads us to the loss of our positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u203	Thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk, give me your word. People's MP Melniczuk. Please turn on the microphone. Question three. Dear colleagues, it was a question of the national deputy of Biloczerkovets, who referred not to the next one, namely Melniczuk. And I very much ask the People's Deputy Melniczuk to turn on the microphone, John Ivanovich Melniczuk. I understand what the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, well, it's strange in the hall to hear "Yaroslava's cry" from the former minister. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, from the former minister of health who gives the president advice on the cosmic scale and the same cosmic stupidity. Do you understand? Without order in medicine, we are already making the order in foreign policy and telling how we should behave and what laws we should introduce and what we should talk about, it is for the trailer. There's not a single person in the room who's willing not to break the deal with the Russian Federation for all the trouble they're making in the world. So I urge you all to vote in favour of the Presidential Bill, to support it, to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u205	Thank you. Will you answer that, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey? Please, your trailer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u206	I'm just going to remind you once again that the bill that initiated Freedom 0206-1, unlike the Presidential Bill, which deals only with the breakup of the Friendship Treaty, is about breaking all agreements with the Russian Federation. We think that this is the only, full and adequate answer to show that we are consistent, and that the aggressor country, which has violated all international norms that have violated all possible agreements and agreements, has understood that Ukraine is taking adequate steps, responses to this, and the whole world has seen our firm stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u207	Thank you very much for your presentation, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Please return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, we have a third alternative bill, author of Igor Lucenka. We invite our esteemed colleague to the rostrum. And this is Bill 0206-2. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u208	Guys, I'd like to start with a positive note. I think what the President has now put into our Parliament is our joint victory. Because I am convinced that a large part (perhaps most) of the MPs, if not openly, were at least aware of the need to break the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with Russia and, finally, this position, after having stood for so many years, was embodied in the fact that there is such a legislative initiative and that there is such a note from Ukraine to Russia. I am sure that the Ukrainian people absolutely support such an initiative, which bears all the burdens of war itself, is precisely the force that defends our country from Russia, and it is now being followed by power. It's too late, it's really sad. But it's nice that, at least by chance, we have a broken relationship with an aggressor right now. As for what we have already suggested, I also want to say it. A number of MPs in this Parliament have proposed that diplomatic relations with Russia be terminated. In March 16, such a legislative initiative was introduced, registered. Unfortunately, the representatives of today's coalition on the profile committee voted against such an initiative to break up diplomatic relations with the aggressor country. I hope that right now there is good reason to reconsider this decision. Let the coalition, which considers itself to be the ruler, take responsibility and break diplomatic relations with the aggressor, as we have long offered. Let's not stop. I'm sure today we're voting for one of the proposed bills. But what I would like to say is that the fact that this Friendship and Cooperation Agreement and the Strategic Partnership with Russia have not been broken for four years is, of course, a component of treason. As soon as the normal legal conditions are in place, it will be necessary to determine who arranged this four - year delay with the breakup of the friendship and cooperation agreement with Russia. And the arguments that we are now hearing about the fact that this treaty could not have been broken, because it seems that there are some courts going on, and now the courts are going to continue. And if he acted at a time when Russia was violating these laws, he could likewise be the object of our lawyers ’ appeal. So we can see that there's good reason to look for the guilty. And I have, of course, turned to law enforcement, criminal conduct registered. And we'll, of course, as soon as we can do that, we'll find out if this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that acted in this way, or whether it was maybe other influences. But in any case, they must be punished. So further, I want to say that my bill is very different from what the President is proposing. Friends, we have a major battle, not in the legal plane with Russia for today, but in the propaganda. We need to convince the world: both those who are helping us and those who are not yet helping us, that there is a clear fact of Russian aggression. There are a lot of discussions in the world around it. Perhaps all of us here are aware that Russia is an aggressor, but because Putin, with billions of his aspirations to propaganda, has convinced the vast population of our planet that it is a civil war, and unfortunately our country is helping him. Helps by not breaking this treaty, which is just, we are breaking up now, nor does it break diplomatic relations, nor does it for 4 years introduce a state of war, as the Constitution does, and so on. So there's just legal sabotage on the part of individual officials. And this is a tremendous help to our enemies. So right now, we need to keep the agreement going, we need to make it clear that we're breaking the treaty because it's broken by the Russian Federation. Instead, the formula proposed from Banking Street provides that there is no logical link between Russia’s actions as an aggressor and our ending these contractual relations with Russia. So four or five years have passed -- and we're putting an end to this agreement because it's just stopping its action in time, it's just going to expire. So there is no strong argument in favor of Ukraine’s rightful opposition to road rage. It's just breaking the deal, it's like there's no 10,000 dead, annexated areas, occupied areas, no colossal damage to the economy. We need to show everyone in the world that we are breaking this treaty in connection with road rage rather than stopping because it has ceased to work in time. It's very important. This will give a tremendous boost to our diplomatic work, as well as to the work of the courts, which is so taken care of by the lawyers of the treaty and so forth. So this is the basic, and the thesis that I am proposing to all of us to support that we cannot go on: friendship, cooperation, strategic partnership with Russia in relation to its aggression. I call on everyone to support, in any case, the termination of the treaty with Russia. It's a disgrace that we've waited four years for this moment. And I think that any of the bills today are relevant, and I would like to say that I don't want to stop. Let's break up diplomatic relations. Let's stop the free movement of the Russians here so they don't come and kill us here. Enter a visa mode or other form of restriction. And so we will be in the eyes of all our allies and those who think of becoming our allies, a conscious country that is truly ready to fight Russian aggression, to defend its honour and dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u209	Thank you, thank you. But please return to the rostrum. Because right now we're going to have a question to the reporter. I'm asking you to record a question. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u210	Dear Mr. Igor, please tell me, for the last four years, we have heard from the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, his colleagues from the faction of his name and from the Ministry of Internal Affairs that the termination or break of this great treaty of friendship with the Russian Federation will allow us not to recognize the country of the aggressor of Russia as Ukrainian borders. Tell me, in your opinion, after the annexation of Crimea, could there be any kind of recognition by Russia of Ukraine's borders or non-recognition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u211	Yes, Mr. Mosiyczuk, I thank you for that question. And thank you for your consistent position with regard to this covenant. And finally, I think that one of these positions, it worked out that we're breaking this agreement right now. In answer to your question, I would like to say that, in fact, over the past four years, we have not seen any action on the part of Russia that shows that Russia respects our borders. The most recent example is the events of the end of November last year, when in the territorial waters of Ukraine, the Russian military made an open, direct aggression against our vessels. So, what respect for our borders might we be talking about? This treaty, which has this very respect as a declaration, does not make any sense. And on our part, it was blasphemy under him to keep his signature, taking into account the aggression that Russia is taking to our borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u212	The next question is the national deputy Sergey Evtuszek. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u213	Eutushka, Fatherland. Mr. Igoru, tell me, please, I understand that the Presidential Bill stipulated that the treaty provided for what article 40 says that if there is a desire to terminate the treaty, it should be done in six months. The MLC sent us this note in September, but at the same time, the Presidential Bill states that the bill takes effect from the time it was signed. Please tell me how to understand this: a note made in accordance with the agreement that is six months from now, is that the month of April next year is foreshadowed by the termination of the treaty, and the Presidential Bill provides for its entry into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u214	Please answer, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u215	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. The fact is that to my profound conviction that we are voting in the hall right now is not a legal story. This is the story of the pianist and voting program of today’s President. So the legal trifles, of course you're paying attention to as a lawyer, as a legislator, there were no pianists who prepared the bill. They don't care. They need the fact that the President's initiative is to terminate the treaty. Rather, it is simply a nonconformity of the treaty, and no more. And it's just a way to put all these slogans on your posters, no more and no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u216	Thank you. I'm sorry, I came back later, were there two questions or three? Mr. Igor, were there two questions? Your third? Your friends. Please, Diditch, your third question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u217	I beg your pardon to convey to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u218	Please, Mr. Musia's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u219	Dear reporter! Oleg Musei, National Control political party. Along with other Ukrainian patriots from UKROP, Fatherland, the Radical Party, the People's Movement, I fully support your position, because your position is not spineless, your position is consistent. The treaty can't be suspended. And that is the answer of these six who addressed me as the former minister of health. In fact, this gentleman, if you would remember, perhaps if you wanted to mention someone's past, who he was, I would mention your racketeering past and how the racketeers took Peter Poroshenko into their faction. How did this happen? So let's not mention what happened before. You are today an active power, an active coalition, an active president who has a spineless absolutely, not completely pro-Ukrainian position, but a pianist position. So comment, please, on why this is the case with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u220	Thank you. Mr. Oleg, Mr. Musei, I want to thank both you and your colleagues from your political power. Our efforts with you show that the truth triumphs. Could you have imagined about two years ago that the President would come here with such bills that we would see such, you know, fairly correct, but late action on Russia on the part of the termination of the treaty, on the part of the introduction of the state of war? This testimony is that you and I have been working here for four years and talking all the time, repeating what is the truth, which is the necessary action on the part of Ukraine in response to such aggressive Russia. And it's a good thing that these words have finally become a reality that has become a real force that has forced even those who ignore the will of the people to consider this will of the people and still fight Russia, to take at least minimal legal steps to make us look in the eyes of our partners as a warring, powerful country ready to fight, not, you know, kleptoocratic autocracy. Thank you personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u221	Thank you. Mr. Igor, stay in the rostrum. There is no way to press the button, ask questions. Using my right anyway, I want to ask you a question. I hope so, and you will thank me for my consistent position over these four years as to the fact that the ICC and the President of Ukraine have taken the only faithful position on the impossibility of breaking the treaty that is currently under way by international courts. And today, it's about, despite all the insinuation in the hall, not breaking up, it's about closing the contract through. in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty. And actually, I have the next question for you. Will all 19 members of your faction vote for any bill today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u222	Mrs. Irina, first of all, really, thank you for being so interested in the position of our faction. And I'm sure that this position of our Fatherland faction, and of course our other colleagues in Parliament, has led the President to actually support it today, even in a limited way. And I thank you. I think you're just as supportive of this position. It's about the Fatherland faction. The Fatherland faction will support all initiatives on breaking up, stopping, closing the deal with those bastards who sat in the Kremlin so that we don't laugh at each other in the world. It's a good thing that four years later, our positions with you were so close. I hope that it will continue to be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u223	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I am convinced that on strategic issues, our positions are always close. Thank you. Please return to your workplace. And the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Hanni Hopko. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u224	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. On December 5, the Committee considered a draft Act on the termination of the Treaty of Friendship, Partnership and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. We also considered an alternative draft of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act on the termination of Ukraine's international agreements with the aggressor State (registered 0206-1). And even after the adoption of the relevant decisions by the committee, the National MP Lucenk had submitted another alternative bill for registration, which Mr. Game has just reported. Bill 0206 is intended to end the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in view of the ongoing armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, which constitutes a significant violation by the Russian Federation of the said treaty. Colleagues, members of the committee have decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft Act on the termination of the Cooperation Agreement and the partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation (Registration No. 0206) of 03.12.2018 be adopted as a whole. Indeed, unlike Ukraine, the Russian Federation has never taken this treaty or other treaties seriously. All 20 years of this treaty, we've seen 20 years of blackmail, provocation, we've seen 20 years of political pressure, information aggression. After committing armed aggression and occupation in 2014 of a part of the Ukrainian territory that is still under way, Russia has in fact shown that this treaty is not worth the paper on which it was written. And it is obviously a long - overdue step to halt the operation of this covenant. I'm joining all my colleagues, the claims that we had with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, why the committee was forced, starting on September 21, 2018, three times to address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the President and the Head of Government for the purpose of receiving a copy of the note submitted by the Russian Federation on Ukraine's wish to stop the operation of the Cooperation Agreement and the partnership with the Russian Federation. A copy of the note was sent to the committee in half an hour before the meeting, with which members could familiarize themselves with the committee, a copy. My colleagues, I would also like to say that this step that we're taking today, I hope we're going to do it with you now, is necessary, but it's not enough. We're waiting for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to review the entire treaty base with the Russian Federation. We look forward to further steps that will demonstrate that we are able to protect information space, decisive sanctions against agents of Russian influence in our politics and economy, and the reinforcement of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Indeed, Ukraine wants peace and a civilized relationship with all its neighbors. And we need to make it clear that Russia does not recognize the right to Ukraine's free existence. And we need to be prepared to live in constant conditions of danger to us, in general our existence on the part of the Kremlin. Today, on the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we would like to welcome defenders and protectors to the Day of the Armed Forces. We have to take care of strengthening our army. Nevertheless, it is important to tell Europe and the world how dangerous the Russian threat is. And we have to fight effectively only together. I would like to say that we really need to prepare for a full-scale Russian invasion, because the Kremlin will not stop after the last open act of aggression on the Azov Sea. And so, colleagues, I would like to urge the ICC not to be too open to the aggressor in the text of diplomatic notes during the fifth year of the war. There can be no deep respect for our fellow citizens ’ murderers. National dignity is more important than diplomatic protocol. I understand that standards of diplomatic practice have some conservatism of protocol rules and customs. But we have to change them as we did during the General Assembly in 2015, when we got up during Putin's speech with an unfolded flag shot under Iloviak, in protest, even against those approaches that are in the UN. My colleagues, I would also like to say that the termination of the Treaty of Friendship with Russia and our rejection of the aggressor does not mean that we have to forget about those people in the aggressor country who need protection and support. On the contrary, Ukraine must move to an active policy of protecting values and freedom, democracy in the Russian direction. In this regard, I would like to invite all of you tomorrow for 14 hours, at the Committee on Foreign Affairs there will be a round table: "The violation of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation." We want to remind Waves again, "Get away from the Kremlin." At the same time, however, we extend our hand of solidarity to all men of goodwill and to the captive nations of the Kremlin Empire. Glory to Ukraine! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u225	Thank you. Stay. Please, in the workplace. Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for Mrs. Hopko's question. We also occasionally continue to hold meetings for 15 minutes immediately because it is likely that there will be speeches by both deputies and MPs. And there were a lot of questions about MMS. I think Mr. Acid will then take two minutes to answer the question and the other base that the MPs asked about and the note about. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u226	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Krulk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u227	Please, Ivan Krulko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u228	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mrs. Hanno, as of February 5, 2015, Boris Tarasyuk and a number of other authors, my colleague at the Fatherland faction, has registered Bill No. 0005 on the termination of a series of articles of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the Russian Federation, including the exclusion of a strategic partnership. Then we heard the official position of the MFZ as a conclusion to this bill that such an agreement could never be broken, that it could never be terminated, and even a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation could not be excluded. We heard the same position from the President of Ukraine, who was opposed to breaking the Treaty of Friendship with Russia at the time that Russia was already annexing Crimea and continuing to carry out Russian aggression on Donbassa. Please tell me, what do you think this mimicry has to do with changing positions? Does that have anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u229	Please give me your answer, Mrs. Anna. 15 seconds to complete. Give me 15 seconds to finish, although the question is clear, and your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u230	So my question is, what does this change in position involve? Do you not associate this with the fact that four months later, the President’s election should be presented to the Ukrainian people? We, as Fatherland, supported the fact that this treaty should be broken back then, in the 14th year, and we will support it now. But why?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u231	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, as nonfractional and nonparty, I would like to encourage this hall to unite in the protection of national interests. I have already stressed that some of the steps we take are too late, but at the same time they are strategic decisions. And I hope today the session room will vote and support this decision. Once again, from a variety of data, and not only Ukrainian intelligence, but especially foreign intelligence, we understand that the Kremlin will continue to carry out acts of aggression against Ukraine. And apparently, given the pre-election campaign in Ukraine, it will use dissension inside and competition between different political forces to challenge the Ukrainians. And I would like to call for unity in terms of Russian aggression so that the world can see that there were no such stories in this session hall as it was during the war, that many things were agreed upon by the Ukrainians and made decisions in the hall that show to the world that we are the only ones in the region and we are the only ones in the nation's construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u233	Thank you. I'm joining your constructive position as expressed. Please ask a question from the national deputy Musia, who may be joining this wise position right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u234	Madam Head of the Committee! People Control Political Party, Oleg Musei. Of course, we will definitely vote, more precisely forced to vote for any choice proposed. But I'd like to ask you why the committee is. Ma'am. I'm going to add these. As for the leader of the Radical Party, he's distracting my question, please! Why does the committee recommend only 0206? You said the committee recommends 0206, and you appeal to the standards of alternative bills, one piece, for example, submitted by "Freedom", to the Ministry of Justice. Why don't you support the alternatives and say they're stronger, they're better? Some of the committee didn't hear that. Why is this incoherence in the actions of your committee and a very good sequence in the words that you've made with claims to MSA? Please explain this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u235	Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u236	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to go to the Supreme Council website and get to know the conclusion of the scientific and expert management that gave an assessment of this bill, which should not have been registered as an alternative, because it does not propose to cease operations, particularly this treaty, which is the subject of another consideration. It applies to the entire legal framework at all. That's a completely different question. Please prepare professionally to ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u237	Thank you for your professional and wise answer. And please, the People's Deputy of Simeonah will ask the following question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u238	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear reporter, I have three questions. Actually, first of all, that's what people do at every meeting. Why hasn't such an agreement been broken up in 14 years? This is the first thing people ask at every meeting in Ukraine. The other one. Why international cooperation between Russia and Ukraine today is effectively regulated by four hundred different legislative acts. Why is there only one person today who considers the Supreme Council? And third, most importantly, let's be honest with people that in the editorial that your committee approved today, in fact, the Friendship Agreement with the Russian Federation will be in effect until March 31st, 19th. So why doesn't the contract end and actually end, because automatically from April 1st of the following year, it would go long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u239	Please answer, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there were three questions, I will try briefly. First question. As I have already pointed out, with regard to the inventory of the Ukrainian-Russian treaty base, we've heard four hearings on the MLC committee, last time this year was May. At that time, the Ministry of Internal Affairs informed us that the Ukrainian side had carried out all necessary internal procedures and had decided to terminate or terminate an inter-State agreement, 25 intergovernmental agreements, of them. with Ukraine – 20, RF – 5 and 18 interlocutor agreements. So we had an appeal to the foreign minister before making promises to the press about 20 or 40, or how many more contracts are being prepared before the end, to present this list, not just to make public statements in the air. Similarly, we had a recommendation, finally, to appoint the first Deputy Foreign Ministry to unload and so that there would be more opportunities to prepare the inventory of the treaty base more quickly. That's the first question. Your second question. I'll give you an answer. We're going to stop or not continue, not denunciation. Because if there's denunciation, Russia might not admit it on the other side. We use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u241	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u242	We're actually referring to article 40, which says clearly that a treaty is concluded within 10 years, then its operation will automatically continue for the next few decades, unless any of the high contracting parties declare to another that they wish to terminate its operation through a written message. Actually, we're using this moment to stop what Russia will say, and we don't recognize what Ukraine has left in one-sided order. That's the way it's international.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please return to your workplace. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a statement by the MPs, and then it will be from the deputies. We continued the sessions for 15 minutes, taking into account what the resonant question is, and everyone here will want the factions to speak. Please, Irina Lucenko takes the floor from Peter Dustenka's Block. Mrs. Irina, we invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u244	Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian authorities and President Prashenko have repeatedly led the main line: Ukraine is resolving the issue in a political and diplomatic way, all the conflict issues that arise today in eastern Ukraine are being resolved in the same way in Crimea in a political and diplomatic way. But a great deal of our opposition has been asked today: Why have we not broken the treaty, why are we breaking up just for today? The answer is very simple. Please tell me, in 2014, when the President fled when there was no police, when there was no police, when there was no army, when there was no Nazgwardia, there was nothing to protect Ukrainian borders when they were removed from Yanukovich and the appropriate troops from the Ukrainian-Russian border, what was it to protect Ukraine? When the Crimea was annexed, when individual candidates shouted that no tank, no soldier should leave the barracks, no military state, then they did not talk about what had to be broken, those candidates, the Friendship and Cooperation Agreement. All they shouted was, "Don't touch Putin." What did our Ministry of Foreign Affairs do in 2014? February 27th note on consultation on the side. Incentive Russia to consult because they're starting to break the treaty. We're talking about Crimea. 09.04. In the 14th year, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs sends the following note requiring a unilateral halt to violations that have been committed in accordance with the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation. The result is the continuation of aggression, humanitarian assistance in the form of instructors, troops, weapons, tanks moving east to Ukraine. What, breaking the treaty would help us to put an end to aggression? No, it's not. May 2014 President Poshenko becomes President of Ukraine. The first action made by the President is to create an army. What Is Happening in 2009? In 2009, 0.8 percent of the funding. As Prime Minister of Ukraine, today's candidate is 0.8 percent of military funding! This is the lowest GDP figure in the world for financing the Ukrainian army. Record lowest funding: only 0.80. 7 billion 429 dollars to the Mino-Defense General Fund at 913 billion GDP in 19th year. Today, 210 billion dollars of money in the powder is being financed by the army. 0.8 percent and over 5 percent! President Poshenko stated: a consistent political and diplomatic solution to the conflict. This is what article 33 of the UN Statute says: Ukraine, any country, deals in a peaceful way with those conflict issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u245	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u246	that arise and may disrupt world order. What Does It Do? President Poshenko? He has consistently used this agreement through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in international courts to file lawsuits against Russia, and those lawsuits have been filed. What Does It Do? President Poshenko? By means of an edict under the procedure provided for by this law, an edict is issued. A note takes place six months before the treaty is terminated, as stipulated in this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u248	Thank you. From the "will of the people" to the word "fishkinskie Eugene," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u249	Eugene Ribczynski, city of Kiev "The will of the people" will vote as much as possible in favour of this law, and that's understandable. The only thing I'm going to say is that I'm not going to talk now like the previous speaker, or Timoshenko, and I'm not going to mention the President either. The only thing I'm going to say is that it was supposed to end on April 4th, that's the deal. And within six months of this agreement, the MCC was to inform that party that the agreement was being terminated, and they reported it. Our function, gentlemen, is, of course, a button pusher, I'm sorry. And we're going to do it today, we're going to vote. There's only one question: why is this happening today? Why is responsibility translated into the Supreme Council? Why didn't Klimkin come here? I'm not talking about Peter Alexiovich anymore. For one simple reason: it is signed, signed, signed, signed by the President of Ukraine, not by the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council ratified it. So we'd like to hear it on such an important day, and we're not breaking up with Uganda, we're closing the agreement, we're stopping, for a second, with Russia. So maybe you should not hear from the deputy, because I'm seeing him for the first time, like you, and Klimkina at least hear him. Of course, the guarantor could have come. So I would like to say for the future that such important things must be done in the presence of all the authority and the executive, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u250	Thank you. From the People's Front faction to the word, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u251	My fellow Members, I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should play a key role in this matter, not the role of some buttoned-up, but the role of parliamentarians and the role of those chosen by the people to defend the independence and interests of Ukraine, the European Ukraine. The People's Front, of course, supports the Ukrainian President's bill on the termination of the treaty with Russia in connection with Moscow's insolent violation of its principles, norms and regulations. Such a decision takes place at our initiative and is fully in line with national legislation. We want to see our foreign policy clearly, clearly, one that does not contain double standards. In recent years it has been the People's Front that has insisted and provided key and breakthrough solutions to our foreign policy. Russia must not be resisted, nor should it be traded, allowed to enter its agency without hindrance, or supported by diplomatic relations. We must adhere to the only and clear principles in the fight for Ukraine’s independence. We are in favour of breaking all the agreements with Russia that it has broken, including the Common Status Treaty of the Azov Sea. Since May, Moscow has been carrying out daily sea aggression. Ukraine not only owns the right to unhindered passage through the Kerchen Strait but also Kerch. Kerch - Ukrainian land! Crimea - Ukrainian land! If the so-called joint-use agreement does not help the depopulation of Kerchi, the Crimea, does not interfere with the blockade of Mariupol, why this so-called treaty?Oh, my God! Next steps to be clear from the People's Front faction. The introduction of additional sanctions into Russia through its naval aggression and the blockade of the Asian ports. The leader of the People's Front, Arseny Yatzenuk, took this initiative at the end of May this year. Russia must not be calmed down but must be forced into international agreements! Force her to leave and leave Ukraine. We appeal to our law enforcement officers to finally bring Medvedchuk's criminal responsibility and immediately deprive Medvedchuk of any, at least, semiformal status of the negotiator from Ukraine! We must put an end to this corrupt business of Putin, Medvedchuk in Ukraine. Moreover, there is no point in maintaining diplomatic relations with the aggressor. There is no reason to maintain these relationships! The events of the last four years have shown that consular protection simply does not work in the Byzantine Empire. And honourable fellow workers, let us take responsible steps, and let us once again cut the last threads that seem to link with the so - called older brother. We don't have any brothers! We only have our enemies in the East and we have our partners in the West. Let's support it. The People's Front will vote in favour of the bill submitted by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u252	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u253	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. After the Russian aggressor’s boots stepped on Ukrainian Crimean, Donbasian soil, March 17, 2014, I then, even though I was not the leader of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party, registered the draft Order on First Instance in connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression. Among the first steps I proposed on 17 March 2014 was the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and Russia on the Status of the Black Sea Fleet, the Agreement between the Government of Russia and Ukraine on the Status of the Black Sea Fleet, the Agreement on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and Russia. And since then, unfortunately, the authorities have done nothing to denounce these agreements. Archives don't burn. Here is an official document from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine since December 22, 2014. What was the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President of Ukraine on my proposals? Regarding the draft Act on the Denunciation of the Friendship Treaty: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not support Ukraine. Motivation: Because this does not suit the national interests of Ukraine. Our next initiative is sanctions against the Russian Federation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not support the bill. Our initiative to recognize Russia as an aggressor country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not support the bill. In December 14, after Ilovyska, after thousands of people were killed, after the occupation of Donbas and Crimea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, President Poroshenko did not support the initiative to break the treaty with Russia, to recognize Russia as an aggressor, to impose sanctions against Russia. As of today, only 44 agreements with Russia have been denounced from 451 intergovernmental agreements with Russia, less than 10. The most damaging agreements on military cooperation, in military intelligence, in the organization of military interstate transport, in the protection of classified information -- these agreements were denounced in May 2015 for the initiative of my team. Neither the MCC nor the President, nor the government, were the initiators of these agreements. Today, the president suddenly mentioned that the deal was to be broken. Many of you in this room wondered: Why? I'll answer you with Winston Churchill's words: because government officials care about future generations, and politicians care about elections and ratings. President Prašenko is a politician, and he's bad. But a very bad statesman -- he doesn't care about national security, he doesn't care about saving the lives of Ukrainians, he only cares about his own ratings and trying to stay in the chair. That's what his actions are all about: staying in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u254	From the Self-Help faction to the word, Semimenach Roman is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u255	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Dear Ukrainians! In fact, war has lasted for more than 4.5 years, and war has taken thousands of lives of Ukrainians. There is no family in Ukraine that is not affected by this terrible war. And perhaps the biggest challenge for all branches of government: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the President of the country -- to give a worthy percentage of Russian aggression. But what is really going on? Why is there such ambiguity in society’s response to the war situation with us? Because people don't believe. At all the meetings, people are asking why this was not done to carry out President Turchin's duties in February-March when Russian "green men" captured Crimea. Why wasn't this decision taken by the President of the country in the summer of 14 when regular Russian troops entered the Ukrainian territory for 53 kilometers and shot Ukrainian soldiers? Why did the President of Ukraine today decide to terminate this treaty? Is the President sincere? Because it is proposed not even to break this treaty but to stop it. Dear Ukrainians, I am addressing you because it is this very editorial that is proposed by the President that the Friendship Agreement with Russia will be in effect until the last day of this chamber of Peter Prashenko: by March 31st, 19th. And that's the truth you need to know. But if the President's intentions are sincere, why is the President silent today that today the bilateral relations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine govern some 400 legislative acts? Why isn't the President asking today about a complex solution to this situation? Why is it not a matter of breaking up diplomatic relations? So, dear Ukrainians, you should know, unfortunately, this initiative of the President has very little to do with the real resistance and the intention of resisting Russian aggression. The self-help faction will certainly vote in favour of this initiative, because from day one it calls for a real response: to admit the reality: to war, to Russia as an aggressor, to stop any trade with an aggressor and to end diplomatic relations. That is how the authorities must respond to the real challenge of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u256	Thank you. Colleagues, before I give my word to the next reporter, I'd like to consult you. We have 10 minutes, 10 minutes. Colleagues, there are two more of the factions. Let's move on to after lunch, shall we? And do you want to transfer it to after lunch? You tell me, please, we have to give it to the deputies. Colleagues, as the time goes by, we will vote. Now Dudenkov from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. The Opposition Block will vote against this bill because the Opposition Block does not want to participate in the President's pre-election campaign. We believe that the involvement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the discussion before the registration of all the bills is unnecessary, because a lot of reporters have already said that, and I will repeat it. The Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement automatically ceases to work if either side expresses its desire to terminate this treaty. Then why are we having this circus now? For the election campaign is about to begin, in order to be reinvigorated, now against the backdrop of an economic catastrophe, against the backdrop of a failure in all directions of reform, at least something to show Ukrainian citizens before the elections. The contract is terminated through a letter addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on April 1, 2019. That's a fact. No denunciation bill is required, adopted by the Supreme Council. That's a fact. So we're now entering an active pre-election campaign period. The president signed this bill, and now the Supreme Council is going to write the President and we're going to pretend that we're ending our relationship with Russia, while trying to preserve the transit of Russian gas and not allow the North Stream-2 project to be implemented. This is about the "hot heads" that talk about ending trade-economic relations with Russia. But most importantly, this decision is not against Russia right now, but against the millions of Ukrainians whose constitutional rights are guaranteed in Russia where they are. There are a lot of legal aspects that guarantee their rights as to the non-requirement of legal documents, to the confirmation of legal facts -- very good things that guarantee the additional rights of Ukrainians. So this is a decision that you, in a political ambition agreement, are actually making it worse for the Ukrainians who are now in the Russian Federation. Admit it! And all of your fairies are related to breaking up relations with Russia, declaring a state of war, and it's like running an OTG election. And let's take a faster election to hold the December 23th election. How are we going to get them out of here? It's not possible in a state of war. This is already a failure of your attempts to piazza before the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u258	So, colleagues, listen to me carefully. Please come into the hall. I propose not to interrupt the consideration of the matter. Now to vote that the morning session before the end of this question is another 10 minutes, that's not much. We have at least six minutes for the deputies, that's not much. It'll be six minutes for the MPs, after the Motherland speech. And colleagues, one more thing. And then literally two or three minutes -- getting into the agenda of the day session for making a decision with a socioconomy. So we can do it by noon. It won't be long, for 10 minutes. And that's why I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please come into the hall and support us, otherwise we will interrupt the hearing, and in the second hour it will be very difficult to gather deputies. That's the only question. So that's what it sounds like. I propose to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the draft Act on the cessation of the Treaty of Friendship, cooperation with the Russian Federation, and the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of budgetary issues to be considered today. Is it accepted? That's the right thing to do. This will be wise. So please encourage further consideration of this issue and inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Keep it right. Support me. Vote. It will be very difficult for us to collect at two o’clock. [[14:08:40]] For 249 Thank you for your support. So, colleagues, from factions, a closing statement from the Fatherland and then six minutes from the National Deputies. Please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u259	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today we are discussing a very important issue, a matter of strategic importance for our nation. The bill that we are considering has been passed by the President of Ukraine. Let me ask you a question: Where is the President of Ukraine? The other one. Let me ask you: Where is the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine in addressing this important, strategic issue? If those who bring this matter up right now, on this day when there is no leader of the opposition faction, which is the reason, I suggest that the next time the President puts in order the day's issue of breaking diplomatic relations with Russia, and we persuade the faction leader to be absent. Now essentially, I want to say. This bill means that. It means that by April 1st the following year, the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation will be defined as a relationship of strategic partnership, since this law terminates on April 1, 2019. So by 2019, we're going to have a strategic partnership. When Boris Tarasyuk and his colleagues passed a bill on termination in February 2015. on the termination of the 8 articles of this treaty, including the one article that defines us as strategic partners, then the Ministry of Internal Affairs responded by signing Deputy Minister Xerkal, who proved on the five pages why it was not necessary to stop the operation of the ominous articles of the treaty. In particular, she wrote that the termination of article 1 on strategic partnership could be seen as the refusal of Ukraine to recognize it as a sovereign state. Absurd. This is absurd in diplomatic language. So, of course, we come out of the fact that the treaty has to be terminated. The Fatherland faction will vote for the termination of this treaty. At the same time, I'd like to take this opportunity to answer the questions that were being answered here. I have a statement from Julia Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland faction, referring to the fact that, in connection with the invitation of the senators and congressmen, there should be in Washington, and she's asking what to take into account, to reflect her voice as the termination of this treaty. The same statements were made by members of our faction: Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u260	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u261	Sergei Vlasenko and Gregory Nemira. So I ask you to take into account in the results of the vote the votes of these members of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u262	Thank you. Colleagues, I say, in order for the votes to be taken into account, you have to be on the job and vote. Colleagues, so six minutes is for the national MPs, and we're moving on to the decision-making process. In six minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please hold the recording. And I remind you, the agenda is formed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, the security and defense unit that formed this order of the day. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u263	Alexei Hotcharenko, BPP, Clothing. Dear friends, it is clear that we will now vote and support the President's initiative to end this so-called "great" Friendship, Cooperation and Strategic Partnership with the Russian Federation. Over the last four and a half years, we've had this friendship, we've felt it in its entirety: we've been annexed to Crimea, we've captured the portion of Donbas, we've killed 10,000 Ukrainians. But now that I hear why we didn't break it up before, I'm sorry! And who is to blame and in front of the world does it look very, very bad - Ukraine or the Russian Federation? When we were doing this treaty completely, the Russian Federation ignored it and wiped its legs and everything else it had! Was it our fault? Were we to use this in international companionship, demonstrating the value of treaties with Russia? Kid! Should we have used this for lawsuits? Kid! Today, we are faced with a simple question: Will this agreement continue for another 10 years, will it continue for another 10 years, will it be possible to make friends with Putin? Well, of course, only Bashar Assad and Kim Chen-in can be friends with Putin today. No one else in the world wants to do that! And Ukraine has no right to do that. So it is precisely today that the time has come to show to all the world who have disregarded the covenants, who have failed to fulfill their promises! And in white, it says "the integrity of borders," "the respect for the territorial integrity of the country," and all of this was violated by the Russian Federation under Putin, not Ukraine! And that is why it is time for us to withdraw from this treaty today, demonstrating how Ukraine relates to its international obligations and how the Russian Federation does so. The last friendship we felt from Russia was this kind of friendly elbow of Putin, and we felt it in the Kerchen Strait. And now, today, on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our boys are in a solitary cell called Lefortovo and the Matro Silence. So, dear friends, I'm addressing you. It is very symbolic that we have the opportunity to vote on this proposal of the President on the day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because the Armed Forces of Ukraine are the only ones that protect us from friends like the Putinian Russia, this is a true friend of Ukraine and our pillar on which we stand. And on this very day, on the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we will make a very important decision: to get out of this so-called friendship with the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin, to say it to the whole world and to remind everyone again, Ukraine has fulfilled and will always fulfill its international obligations, and we will protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u264	Eugene Day. Now, I'm sorry, Belkova. Excuse me, my friend Bilkov. I'm sorry, I didn't have a system on. Belkova, please, is passing on Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u265	Dear fellow national MPs! A historic moment for the Ukrainian Parliament. In the history of Ukraine, every national MP who by his personal presence will press the button on the historic bill that we will adopt with you today. I would like to point out to you that Bill 0206 was not just introduced by the President of Ukraine, a bill introduced by the Chief Military Commander of the military country, who has a personal and personal responsibility to the Ukrainians and his external obligations, and this personal responsibility is attributed to the blood of our soldiers. Why now? Why now? Why now? Thus, for the first time military aggression in the neutral waters of the Azov Seawaterwaters was discovered, for the first time under the flags of Russia, this aggression took place. No country can abandon itself to the point where it does not respond. So today, as a peaceful country, which we stand for the honor and dignity of our state in the struggle for our territorial independence and the whole state, we decide in a peaceful, diplomatic way not to continue, not to make a deal. Today, conditions that oblige us to respond responsibly. And don't manipulate today, don't manipulate the President's remarks, don't take it out, because it's not fair. For every Ukrainian in every house today listens to each one of us. We will maintain the data and make a historic decision for Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u266	Thank you. One minute left. Alexiev, one minute, and we're going to the vote. Colleagues, in one minute we're moving on to making a decision. Coast, one minute. Yuri Bereza. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u267	Today, the Ukrainian Parliament must correct the mistake of the previous leadership and parliaments of Ukraine. We are correcting a mistake because Russia has never been a friend to Ukraine. The very existence of Ukraine has always been a major problem for the Russians. It was sad to hear. Of course, the Kremlin's sprinkles will say it's a pyar. The Kremlin’s gravel will say that it is an election or not. The Ukrainian Parliament and the People's Front faction were consistent in their struggle with the Russian aggressor. Today, an important large number of votes are cast in favour of this treaty’s denunciation. This is important not only for the Ukrainian Parliament, it is important. It's an important question for the Ukrainian people, so we're all voting in favour, and we're all voting in Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u268	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and come into the hall. I'd like all of you to come into the room and I'd like to remind you that after the vote, we're going to have six more questions about getting into the agenda for the decision-making session. Among them is the budget for the socioconomy. Immediately after the vote, don't break up, there'll be two more minutes, one after the other, voting in the agenda of the day session. So everybody's in place. And I put to the vote the draft Act on the termination of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the basis of the Committee's proposal (0206) and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[14:20:59]] For 277 The law is passed. Congratulations, fellows! Everyone in position, please. You all have an agenda, there are 5 questions. I'll read them, and we'll vote. First. 9285: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissions, the inclusion of a day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. A security issue, and I asked the committee. [[14:21:45]] For 234 Decision taken. The next question is also a security issue. 9122: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on procurement of goods, works and defence services. Please vote, please support. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote, please. [[14:22:16]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The next is 9275: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of information space. It is also the request of the Security Committee, the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. That's what the Security Committee called it. [[14:22:46]] For-141 The decision is not taken — 141. Next. 9369: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018, incorporating the day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:23:16]] For 231 Decision taken. Next. 9241: Draft Introduction Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no time, colleagues. 9241: Draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 on financial security for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We will support the Constitutional Court. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[14:23:55]] For 216 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, now the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure competitive conditions for electricity generation from alternative sources of energy (8449) and there are a large number of alternatives. And, colleagues, as we agreed, I'll rephrase the Tax Code after that. Nina Petrovna, the refinement, after this clarification. So, carefully, 8449: draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure competitive conditions for electricity production. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. And after that reconciliation, the tax code was clarified. [[14:24:53]] For 234 Decision taken. And the last vote, colleagues, last. This is about removing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving administration and reviewing individual taxes and taxes. What Nina Petrovna reported. Let's support the committee, support Nina Petrovna. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every vote, every vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support, we vote. [[14:25:39]] For 248 Clarification accepted, Nina Petrovna. Now prepare for signature, and we'll be able to sign today. And, colleagues, final attention! Last one, there's another one. 9284: draft Act on the application of anatomical materials to humans. A big request is to get into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[14:26:22]] For 172 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've adopted very important safety laws before lunch. I would like to welcome the entire Parliament to the fact that we have launched a very strong security and defence bloc. But after lunch, we'll continue our consideration of security and defence issues. So I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. Now for the announcement, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u269	Dear colleagues! We want to inform the IFF "Equal Opportunities" about the following. That December 7-8 in Ukraine will be the second international women's forum, where we are waiting, including high-ranking guests, including President Poshenko, and President Dahl Gribauskat of Lithuania. And we invite all colleagues of the national MPs and national MPs of the IFF "Equal Opportunities" to join the work of the forum. Moreover, it seems to us that there is something to discuss in this forum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, everyone is invited to the hall.
