ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. Break time is up, please take up your jobs. I would like to point out that by noon we had included in the agenda of the day's session a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2018 for participation in multinational education (7428), and we have the right to consider it after lunch. An extremely important security law. I have almost no doubt that there will be full support for him in the room, and so after the registration, I'm going to propose a review of him and a decision on this bill. Now I'm asking you to take up your jobs. So, colleagues, please register. Please hold the registration. Please. [[16:06:04]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And so, colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2018 for participation in multinational education (No. 7428). Colleagues, I'm going to offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, and I have a request for everyone to support it. I address all factions. This is a matter of national security and defence, which includes joint training of Ukrainian military and NATO military countries and our partners. And so there's a request that we can get through it quickly and efficiently, and move on to the next issues that matter in the order of the day. Can I count on the support of the hall? The reduced procedure is 150 votes. Did everyone get their bearings? Can you hold it? Short-term, joint learning. Colleagues, can you back me up? You'll be fine. Will you hold on, colleagues? Now there's going to be a vote, and I ask all the deputies, regardless of factions, to support this proposal: to consider a simplified procedure for allowing Ukrainian military training to be shared with our NATO partners. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 7428 on a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please support me, colleagues, summary procedure, security law. Please vote. Vote, please. [[16:08:06]] For-119 Obviously, not all colleagues were simply oriented. I emphasize once again, this bill we have to adopt in this session. This bill provides for the permission of joint learning with our partners from the EU and NATO countries. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now, mobilize and support this proposal. Colleagues, please invite the heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. I see most of the factions are supporting, they're just obviously not oriented. Please take up jobs, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, look, we have a statement from two factions that they're willing to replace. Let's do this while the MPs -- I'm asking everyone to come into the hall -- as long as the MPs are meeting, I think it's wise that these two recess applications will be used, and there'll be a three-minute standoff. Who will act? Romanova. Romanov is invited to the performance. And I'm asking the factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs so that we can go to a positive vote. Three minutes is the show. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. It'll be three minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] There'll be a vote in three minutes, come into the hall. Please, Romanova, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u2	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Now, two factions -- Self-help and Parenthood -- want to go to the hall, and to the whole nation about the critical situation that's happened with higher education institutions all over the country. The fact of the matter is that this situation can be called frozen higher education in Ukraine. Many colleges throughout the country, including the National University of Shevchenka, closed their doors for students until spring. These are also institutions and universities of Lvivščina, Prikarpatanja, which can be called Chernivci, Kharkiv, Chernigus -- students everywhere are taught what is called remote learning. Why is this teaching so called remote? Because it's not provided by a methodological, methodical base. In fact, colleges have no money to pay heat because of the inefficient tariff policy of the state. Such a system places Ukraine’s education system at such a level that students are forced to go abroad and join foreign international unions. We call on the Cabinet of Ministers to intervene immediately, to conduct audits of all those institutions that have now announced extra-audit training before spring, to find out the reasons, and to continue to develop a system where students will not freeze each year in the audience, and there will be a system in every energy saving sector when the unions are encouraged to implement effective energy savings programmes. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone. And we're also planning to address an appropriate question tomorrow at the "government hour" with the Ukrainian Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u3	Thank you very much. And so, colleagues, I would like to stress once again that I will now make a proposal that the draft Law 7428 on the admission of the armed forces of other states to Ukraine's territory in 2018 for participation in multinational training should be voted in favour of a reduced procedure. I'm sure everyone will, and the previous vote has shown that. And I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. So, colleagues, understandable position, all factions support. And I'm voting on the proposal that we consider draft Law 7428 as a reduced procedure. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote everyone. Please be supportive. Every voice has a weight, and so I ask everyone to take a very careful part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Careful! Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:13:51]] For-152. Decision taken. We're moving to consideration. And I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia, Ivan Stepanovich. Ivan Stepanovich, please. Preparing from the committee is Pashinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u4	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law provides for the admission of military forces from other States to Ukraine in 2018 to participate in six multinational trainings involving the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. More than 14,000 Ukrainian military personnel are scheduled to participate in these trainings. On the part of our partners, some 8,000 foreign students are expected to participate. There will be active ranges, airports of the Armed Forces, the Black Sea Aquarium. The training is aimed at training the Armed Forces, acquiring operational skills, enhancing military coherence, preparing for international peace and security operations. The cost of teaching is included in the State Budget in the 18th year. In addition, our partners have traditionally focused considerable material resources on the conduct of such trainings, which are essentially an investment in the development of the infrastructure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Participation of the Armed Forces in multinational training aimed at raising the field school, will contribute to strengthening trust and security among participating states. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u5	Thank you very much. The report now invites Mr. Pashinsky, head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Sergey of Pashinsky gives the word to John Vinic. John Vinnick represents the position of the Committee on Safety and Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, President of Ukraine's bill for registration number 7428 came to the Committee on Security and Defence of the Supreme Council at a meeting yesterday. It envisions the granting of the Supreme Council's approval to allow foreign armed forces to participate in the multi-national training that will take place in 2018. It's about Ukrainian-American Studies, Repid Trident 2018, Ukrainian-American Studies, Ci Briz 2018, Multinational Studies, Light Avalanche 2018, Multinational Studies, Clean Sky 2018, and Ukrainian-Romanian Teachings, Riverian 2018. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve this bill as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to sign up for two, two against this important bill. Please. Please, Olena Babak, conveys the word to Taras the Shepherd. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u8	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. We ask the entire room to gather now because the bill, everyone says it's important, but unfortunately, it shows that there are very few deputies in the room at this time, and unfortunately this can be a demonstration for Ukraine, our willingness to accept foreign partners that are helping today, not only by conducting joint training, but also by conducting training for our fighters in our various ranges. Therefore, the request to call all to the session room and to support the decision unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u9	Thank you for your position. And now, please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u10	Sobolje, Fatherland. This is a very important bill, our faction will support it. We believe that under such difficult conditions of training our Armed Forces, taking part in joint manoeuvres, in joint learning, which will take place next year, this is a very important moment in preparing the military precisely for our Armed Forces. Now, you know, there's a governor-general in Canada. I think that's a good sign when all the official meetings take place at the Yavorovy region, in the heart of the actual preparation of our Armed Forces. So our faction no doubt supports this important decision. This is another step towards full acquisition of Ukraine's membership, the NATO Accession Action Plan and the future NATO accession. So I think we should vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u11	Thank you so much for the constructive position. Please, Mr. Lazko, and then Mr. Bondar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will certainly support joint learning, the cooperation of our Ukrainian Armed Forces with the allied armies of partners. To win, we must be strong. The road will stop only the power and not only the power of Ukraine but also the power of international opposition. And that's why cooperation, military cooperation, military training, the military interaction of our Ukrainian Armed Forces, which is Europe's most powerful army today, with other allied armies, is extremely important to us. The price of the issue is to save the lives of Ukrainian soldiers, sons and daughters of Ukrainians. So the Radical Party team supports this bill, supports military cooperation with our allies. And we're going to do everything we can to make the Ukrainian army the strongest, most powerful in the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u13	Thank you for the constructive position. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u14	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. The People's Front will also support this bill. Such cooperation is needed. But I know that in four years of war, which continues in the east of our country, there is much to learn in our military, not only they learn, but they also have a lot to learn. That's why the People's Front votes, everyone votes in favour of this bill, and we call on everyone to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u15	Thank you. The discussion is over. We got four reports from Fatherland, Self-Help, the People's Front, from the Radical Party. I think that this bill is important, this is a consolidated position. Please, Mr. Head, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u16	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall. We are bound by this bill to make a positive decision, and I call on all to a high level of discipline. I'm asking the secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please come into the hall, I'll wait another 30 seconds. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. So, can we vote? Please, girls. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that a bill will now be put to the vote on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to allow troops of other states to join Ukraine in 2018 to participate in multinational learning. This bill allows us to have a joint teaching Ukrainian military with our NATO partners, and it is very important that we adopt it at this session. So I'm asking everyone to take a very responsible vote, and I'm asking you to take the job. So we vote. I am voting on the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2018 for participation in multinational education (No.7428). Please support as a whole. Please vote, please support, we will support the Ukrainian military, colleagues. We vote carefully and in agreement. Vote, please. [[16:25:15]] For 222 We didn't make it, I see. We didn't make it. I'm going to put you back in the vote, please be in the workplace, colleagues, shame. You can't have that kind of vote, guys, with that kind of vote you can't joke about. Take up jobs, please. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 7428. Please vote and please support, we vote carefully, we vote in favour. Colleagues, we vote in agreement. Please support, return. Vote. [[16:26:17]] For 230 Decision taken. And again, I'm putting Bill 7428 on the ground and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, vote! [[16:26:44]] For 235 The law is passed. Congratulations, fellows! And now we have a statement from two factions for recess. It's from the People's Front faction and the Radical Party faction. Ready to replace the two factions of the break for the performance. And I invite you to address the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! I would like once again to welcome you and welcome the entire people of Ukraine with what we have made today is a very important decision, after all, the law of Ukraine has established that Russia is an aggressor state. And that will significantly strengthen our presence in international courts. And the aggressor country of Russia will be responsible for all the crimes that it is now committing in the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas and Crimea, and will be responsible in the international tribunals for materially, politically, criminally. We've also adopted a very important privatisation bill, and eventually, public, transparent, open privatization will be launched, allowing for the fight against political corruption. But we owed you one vote, and in the intermission between the morning session and the evening we held a faction of the People's Front, where a request was made for the leadership of the Supreme Council to re-vote the day-to-day session of the draft law on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. I am addressing all the MPs, the politically responsible MPs who want to fight corruption, vote and vote, and include in the agenda all the bills that have been tabled and will pave the way for the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. It was the decision of the entire People's Front faction. So I ask you, Mr. Head, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, to put this question again on the vote and to put all the dots on the "and" who sincerely wants to fight corruption, and who uses it only to participate in the numerous talk show and the piano show for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u18	Thank you. Mr. Maxime, colleagues, I'm ready to put the vote back on the agenda for the day session, considering that we've been asking these questions since it was 14:15, not all of them were oriented and arrived. I'll ask again, but I'll probably be right not after that, but after the next question. No objections? Now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, it's about getting into the agenda of the day session. I can put it at any stage. I only have one question to ask you. Heads of factions, now bet? Arthur Gerasimov, Burbak, now put? "Fatherland," "self-help"? Well, then, colleagues, I'll remind you. I'll remind you what questions will now be asked for inclusion in the agenda of the session. First, this is the draft of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act (7440, 7440-1, -2, -3, -4). We have four alternative laws, but no doubt everyone agrees that we're going to have to work on it to be in the paper proposed by the Venice Commission. But now it is only proposed to include it in the agenda of the day session. The next one is 7,180. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the specificities of government banks. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. And then the next one is 7363, and then 7363-1 and negative 2. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and operation of small farms and the deconcentration of powers in the field of land relations. Yeah? Now, these three laws are one by one, and I'm going to make a proposal for a day-to-day session. Everybody ready to vote? I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. Now I'm going to put it to the vote one by one. Please take up jobs. So I'm the first to vote on the draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (number 7440), as well as the alternative 7440-1, -2, -3, -4. And whoever supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act. Let's back up, colleagues, please vote, please support. We vote in agreement, responsibly. Please be supportive. [[16:32:04]] For-200 Okay. Colleagues, turn on the factions. There's a requirement, I'll put it again, let's move on. We have huge numbers, societies, important bills. So I'm going to do it again. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 82, "National Front" – 64, "Resistance Block" – zero, "self-help" – 17, "Radical Party" – 1, "Fathership" – 9, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party "Resurrection" – 3. So I'm going to put again who couldn't vote. I'll bet again. It's just getting into the order of the day session of 7440 and also -1, -2, -3, -4, colleagues. It's our international commitment, but most importantly, it's a tool to fight corruption for us, for the Ukrainians. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote for everyone, it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the session, and I ask everyone to be responsible for supporting it. So please support the inclusion in the agenda of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[16:33:28]] For 204 No votes, colleague. Attention! I will now suspend the voting for the following laws. And I'm going to give you a minute to text Irina Heratschenko. Please, Mrs. Irina. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u19	Dear friends, we are all, without exception in this room, whatever factions we represent, happy to welcome to this hall freed Ukrainian hostages! [[Applause]] Now there is Igor Kozlowski, who we all fought for, Basil Gulka of Ternopilish, Besarab Andri of Mariupol, Gerasimenko Mikola, this is the legendary Krivbas. His colleague Lazarenko Alexander will be with you shortly. Sasha Olinick of the Plain, Morozov Alexander of Sum. My dears! Lord of Fomichov, he's a student. Mr. Igor Kozlowski, he's just a good guy who got away from those comedians. Taras Hapiak, dear From Lviv Taras Hupiak Maxim Ivanov, too. [[Applause]] Guys. We're happy to see them. They represent 74 Ukrainian hostages who were able to be released thanks to the President, the "minish format", all of us Ukrainian diplomats, their families. Let us give them a round of applause for their wives, their mothers, their children, their sisters, and their parents. [[Applause]] I want to thank the boys. They are not just in Parliament today, but because they have already become involved in the active work of releasing other hostages. Today the boys had a meeting with the ambassadors of the countries of the Normandy format, countries of the European Union, where not only did they talk about those who remained there, which we can't get out of, even though it's been more than three years, but also about the cataclysms that they've experienced. The boy thanks us for the reintegration law that was passed today, and he thinks we're all the young people who voted for it. And the boys are asking a lot -- dear colleagues, it's important -- that we adopt a bill on the legal status of persons who have disappeared today on our first reading. Because in "minish format," we're all in "normal format" this year, we want to make such a breakthrough -- active work to find the missing unconscious. And there are many today. Guys, thank you for your courage. We love you!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u20	Thank you, boys. And win us over the aggressor! Glory to Ukraine! Hello! So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to put into order the daily draft of the Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of government banks (7,180 and 7181). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Vote. [[16:36:37]] For 206 The decision is not taken. And another one that we have left behind is draft Laws 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and activities of small farms and the deconcentration of land-related powers. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:37:20]] For 181 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, at the request of the factions, I put once again to the vote. And now we move on to the next question of the agenda. The next question we have is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences, 7279 and 7279-1. Colleagues, please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:38:09]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Law Enforcement and Protection of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u21	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement examined the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Judicial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (Registration No. 7279) and the alternative to amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of the judicial investigation of certain categories of criminal offences (Registration No. 7279-1). The purpose of the bill is to achieve the same objective, namely to regulate the application of legislation, and to apply the provisions of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the investigation of criminal offences. Bills, however, have different conceptual approaches. The main bill, registration number 7279, submitted by the National Deputies to the members of our profiling committee, was developed with the participation of experts from the Attorney General's Office and the National Police. The mechanism proposed in the bill provides for a simple and clear procedure for the criminal offence of sanctioning the article on the basis of small-scale crimes, a clear and clear procedure for investigating criminal offences in the form of knowledge and, above all, the mechanism envisaged by the bill will allow the mechanism to tighten the deadlines without significant financial and organisational and technical resources to propose a simplified procedure for investigating small-scale crimes, which will significantly relieve the enormous burden on the investigators, allowing them to effectively investigate serious and particularly serious crimes. The alternative bill, registration number 7279-1, actually proposes a new edition of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which seems very controversial. In particular, criminal offenses are proposed to form mainly on the basis of administrative offences, which are hardly in line with the principles of humanization, criminalization. legislation. A fine calculation system is proposed depending on the gravity of the criminal offence committed and. the standard of living of the condemned. The grounds for criminal responsibility for certain types of criminal offences, such as suicide, have been clarified. Ukraine’s Criminal Code is to be supplemented by an addition to the definition of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u22	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u23	Please, 30 seconds to complete. Tell me if you need more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u24	No, no, 30 seconds, less.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u26	is supplemented by new articles that define the principles of criminal law. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this bill does not need to be worked out. Having examined the bills and considering that the basic bill proposes a clear concept of the distinction between criminal offences and crimes and defines a simplified mechanism of pretrial investigation, in fact crimes of minor gravity, and the concept of an alternative bill is similar to the bill's concept of registration number 7279, which was not supported by law enforcement authorities and was rejected by Parliament, the members of the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take into consideration in the first reading a draft of Ukrainian law under registration number 7279 and to take the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u27	Thank you. The committee is recommended on the basis. I invite you to address the author of the alternative bill, Olena Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u28	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, we're looking at a very complex category right now and I'm sorry that it was after a very difficult day that we went to criminal offenses, but the purpose of this bill is very humane, at least it was set up as a very humane one. In Germany, in the faction, in many other European countries, criminal acts have long been allocated to crime and crime, because there are crimes that actually cause very little damage and the need for a person, for example, to have severe consequences in the form of punishment or investigation for a long time, and the law enforcement authorities should not be overloaded. The idea of criminal misconduct is very simple. First of all, it's an action that doesn't do much harm. And secondly, it's obvious from the point of view of evidence, which means that there's no need for the body to conduct a long-term investigation, order expertise, survey 100 witnesses, download evidence from technical tools. That's the idea of criminal misconduct. In our bill, really, we're humanizing, we're cleaning up more than 40 sets of crimes that are repeated or duplicated in some way. But I'm concerned about the reason why I passed an alternative bill, because the main one doesn't meet his goal. And here I want the national MPs to pay attention. According to the basic bill, 40 percent of crimes that were mildly serious become crimes of average gravity. This applies to the introduction of information, by the way, in electronic declarations, this applies, for example, to disturbances in order during rallying and peaceful meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u30	This also applies, for example, to service negligence, which is now also becoming a crime of average gravity and many more. So I have a very simple question for the authors. If you wanted to humanize criminal legislation in Ukraine, why did such a number of minor crimes turn into crimes, such as those in our bill, into crimes of average gravity? Why you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u31	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u32	Thank you. And why you're really taking people away from you, when you're investigating crimes, you're depriving them of their protection. They will not be able to read the documents, in fact they will see the material of the charge in court. This contradicts the Constitution. What's more, you're introducing 8 new grounds for arresting people who are totally breaking the rules of the Constitution, especially when a person is without a passport. That is why I urge the people’s deputies to be very careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u33	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in. Please. Please, Olena Sotnik of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u34	You see, I still have a chance to make a deal. One key point. Any person, even in administrative, by the way, in administrative matters, i.e. in administrative offences, is not deprived of protection. For some reason, the authors of the basic bill decided that by simplifying the actual knowledge, let us simplify our approach to the suspects themselves. And in this case, the person is in a situation where he can't protect himself, and he's not actually taking part in the investigation, and the post-factum will be brought to justice and will be charged. Moreover, 48 hours offered by the authors to investigate criminal offenses. It's funny, it's impossible, because sometimes just, for example, the expertise of the same slight bodily damage, it takes 21 days. This means that from the very beginning we're laying the groundwork for illegality in this institution. And the last. Criminal misconduct and the Criminal Offences Act were already in this room. At that time, the bill was broken. We have received a report from the Council of Europe on this bill. Our alternative bill fully reflects all the recommendations that the Council of Europe has asked to include. Moreover, we have 12 new crimes that the European Court of Human Rights has long emphasized to Ukraine that they should be in criminal law. I don't understand why the committee that was the author of the first bill went in a fairly simple and mechanical way, simply calling the crimes of light gravity a misdemeanour and asking as much as possible to investigate them. I ask not to support the basic bill, but to support the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u35	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Svetlana Petrovna. He's handing over the word Mustafa. And, colleagues, I ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please, Mr. Mustafa. Maybe you didn't put the card, see? Turn on Mustafa Najem's microphone. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, this bill awaits thousands of investigators throughout the country. His main goal is to simplify, indeed, and to remove the burden of very large amounts of crimes of a small severity of these investigators. But I agree with our colleague, Helen, that the way that this bill is about, when we're actually just translating from one category into another category, we're creating a situation where a lot of people who are just going to get hurt are going to go to the Court of Human Rights because they won't have a right to defend themselves. And the second reason is that we can't, we can't, we can't do that right now, and the committee says that in such a form, we can't investigate some of the crimes set out in this bill. So there's a proposal, anyway, we've been looking at this bill, the same thing as Helen, and the same thing as Mikoli Petrovich Palamarczuk, bringing these two bills together, taking the best there and not creating new crimes, and not denying the moments when, in fact, the people who committed the crime can't protect themselves, those moments are taken away. Let's vote now to unify these bills or create a committee-based working group, and then we can take into account all the human rights points and all the protection points and we can create normal conditions for investigators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u37	So now I'm going to give you my word, but I'm going to all my fellow national MPs. Almost every Conciliation Council was urged by the committee’s chairman to draft the bill. As I was told, he is universally united, and the committee offers nothing but a basis for accepting him. Actually, I wouldn't want us to repeat the same thing that we did today. I have to follow the committee's proposal. The committee asks for a basis for further work. I think it's a wise offer. And I don't have a proposal from the committee to put her to the vote. Ask Palamarchuk for more advice. And I ask one more, the heads of factions. Colleagues, BPP, People's Front, please mobilize maximum deputies. I've had a lot of calls from factions to draft this bill. He's in the daytime, we're looking at him now. Do the maximum mobilization, because there's going to be another speech, and then we're going to vote. So I'm asking for maximum mobilization of all factions. And I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Igor Mosiyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u38	The distinguished Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament, are extremely important to tens of thousands of Ukrainians, to Ukrainian law enforcement investigators. There is a position of the Radical Party faction in relation to what has been divided thoughts, and we will vote in favour of both versions of the bill. I personally support Mrs. Helen's bill more. But I think that on the basis of a committee, based on a committee bill, if Mrs. Helen's bill is not supported, we can work on it. But we have no moral right either before Ukrainian law enforcement or against Ukrainian citizens. So I call on the whole room to vote for both bills, and which will get more, we'll work on it. In fact, this bill is a decriminalization of part of criminal legislation, and this bill is the protection of human rights. So I ask all my colleagues to support, concentrate and vote both for the committee bill and for Mrs. Helena's bill. This will be the right thing to do, and the majority of us will work together on this, and we will give the one who will unite the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u39	Thank you, colleagues. I fully support Igor Mosiyczuk's position that we need to maximize, we cannot fail this bill again. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, the Supreme Council Secretariat and the faction heads, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, one minute, Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. In fact, many things were said here, and in fact this processual economy, the so - called one proposed in this bill, would necessarily lead to improper setting of circumstances, a superficial attitude towards its duties by law enforcement officials, even more superficially than now, involving under-resourced personnel in learning. As a result of such changes, an enormous number of people may be unfairly brought to criminal responsibility, which, even without a guilty person’s admission, can seriously damage his reputation, cause moral suffering, and unnecessary expenses. In addition, the courts will be even more loaded with unprofessional materials of criminal conduct. And so this process economy is going to block the work of investigators because of the greater workload of the court. Moreover, in this bill, in the context of criminal delinquency, the suspect is limited in rights. At this stage, none of the morals can be spoken of, nor can the material of the suspect’s case be properly examined in court, and this will have a negative effect on the possibility of such protection. Such a bill cannot be voted on even in the first reading, it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u41	So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're going to vote. I see that the situation in the room is not easy, and so I am very much asking that we do not fail this law again. It's a lot of jobs for everyone so we don't have to be in different parts of the vote. Please, colleagues, invite everyone to the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm going to put both of these bills as basic and then alternative. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, and I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the pretrial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (No. 7279) on a basis, colleagues, just on a basis. We can work between the first and the second readings. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to support me. Careful, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! [[16:55:29]] For 207 Colleagues, I see they're coming in. I'll put the next one in, and then we'll come back. I'm putting the bill to the vote, now alternative, 7279-1 (by Captain Helen Sergiyevna) as the basis. Whoever supports this vote is the alternative to Helen Sotnik. Please vote. [[16:56:05]] For 171 So the first one was closer to making a decision, and now I'm going to make it, the offer to come back. Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. Only, colleagues, I'm stressing again, we can just knock it down today, it'll be wrong, it'll be irresponsible. So I ask everyone to support the return to the 7279 vote and accept it as a basis. I'm stressing once again, this is the committee's work to work on between the first and the second readings. And I'm asking everyone to give the committee a chance to work on it. We're still going to vote together in this room when there's a bill in general. I ask you, first of all, to come into the hall again and take a careful part in the vote. Please, colleagues, let's go back to 7279. Take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 7279. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, every vote, we vote for the return. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:57:34]] For 214 Colleagues, I'd like to ask a representative of the committee, Mr. Mikolo, if you'll excuse me. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come to the hall. We're short a few votes. Now I'm going to consult with the committee's representative on how we're going to act. Please, Mrs. Irina, read the message.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, while a brief meeting is being held by the Head of the Supreme Council and a representative of the committee, a statement has been made before the Presidency of the Supreme Council, let me read it. This came from the national deputy Sidorovic, who worked very actively on the privatisation bill, and unfortunately his card did not work during the vote. And it is very important that his colleagues, all of us and the electorate, hear that in view of the failure of Mr. Sidorovich’s entire vote in favour of Bill No. 7066, he asks that his vote be taken into account in the voting system. Please. And please join the constructive vote now under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u43	So, colleagues, be careful! Colleagues, I've consulted with a committee representative, and I'm going to put a motion on the vote to support 7,279 on the basis that the proposals for an alternative bill are included in the second reading. And it increases our chances, it increases our capabilities. Let's go, colleagues, first we go back, and this formulation, I think, has a chance to get most of it, colleagues. Please take up jobs. You can see that every voice matters. So please prepare for the vote. So first we're going to go back, and then I'm going to give the wording that I just sounded. So please prepare for the vote. The first vote, please go back to the draft Law 7279, and then I'll propose a compromise. Please take your seats and vote for your return, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Careful, every voice. Please vote, please support the return. Vote! Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote that we don't lose the bill! Please be supportive. [[17:00:02]] For 211 Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! If I re-read both bills, would that be okay? Colleagues, please prepare to keep us from losing the bill. Now I'm putting to the vote the next sentence, which is set by the regulation, is to return to the committee for a second reading. Is it supported? It's supported, colleagues, isn't it? So, please concentrate, I'm proposing that you return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Members of the committee, well, I ask you to vote! Mr. Mikolo! Palamarchuk! Vote! Please support the committee for re-reading. Please vote. Vote! And vote for yourself! Vote. [[17:01:09]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. The following, colleagues, is an important bill: the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (5435 and 5435-1). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please. [[17:01:42]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Prepare Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out that if we have in the question of freeing the hostages, we have a joint serious lot of work, both the Minsk Group, and the President, and politicians, and the churches, and progress. So, unfortunately, we haven't made any progress in the last few years on missing fainting, exhumation of the bodies of the dead. And in fact, it's very important for us to move forward this year in the search for missing information so that the mission of the International Committee of the Red Cross is allowed to do this work. And so we also have recommendations from international humanitarian organizations that Ukrainian legislation is not enough with regard to the challenges we face in this regard. In fact, today, none of the ministries are dealing with this issue, well, in a fixed way. So the Ministry of Defence is, of course, working in this direction, the Ukrainian Security Service, which has created an interdisciplinary centre for missing persons and the release of hostages, but no structure officially has such powers. And that's why the copyright team, which includes members of the various factions, we've drafted a bill on the legal status of the missing, which takes into account the guiding principles, the model law on missing persons developed by the International Committee of the Red Cross, which not only gives and refines certain concepts in this delicate difficult issue, but also has this key novelty because it has to be an official body. I take the blame for the fact that as one of the co-authors of this bill was unable to be present during the committee's consideration. And there was a decision that there was an alternative bill, and then we should send it for work. But we now have an understanding with the profile committee that it might be accepted as a basis, and we're going to work on it all together on the second reading. These are also requests from very large and international organizations working in this direction and boys.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u45	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u46	15 seconds. Indeed, there is a strong desire for us to make progress in this regard, and this law can be worked out very well with public organizations for the second reading. Thank you. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u47	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Najem Mustafa-Massi (full name), please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, our bill is an alternative, in fact, it complements that bill that Irina Herashchenko has put forward, part of what we add to the notion of enforced disappearance, because this bill does not regulate the issue of protecting such persons under the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. We give the notion of violent disappearances -- first. And the second. We propose to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Enforced Extermination and specific punishment. In addition, we give relatives of missing persons the right to receive pensions and other social benefits. Because there are a lot of people who have disappeared because of the violent disappearance, that is, when our boys were kidnapped by representatives of the Russian Federation, they're representatives of government agencies, and that's what the international standards mean by the violent disappearance, and we can't pay their relatives here, because they just disappeared and they're gone. If they're the same breadwinners in the family, this family is considered to be a socially vulnerable group, and that's why we're supplementing this bill with such norms. I ask that our two bills be discussed and supported together. I understand that both the committee supports this decision, and the drafters of the bill, so that we can eventually unify both bills and make a normal document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u49	Thank you. The committee head is invited to the report. representative of the committee, first deputy. Not just a representative, the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations, Valera Paccan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, we've just seen, we've got some boys on the rostrum who've been taken back from captivity. True, we applauded everyone here. And now I'd like you, each of you not only to applaud and walk around taking pictures with those guys, but to think about when you're going to vote for the bill. There are two laws. I'm not going to stop at their content, just as the authors have reported on the essence and content of everyone's law. One law on commission creation, another law on compensation, which just reported Mustafa Nayem. The committee at its meeting proposes to unify these two laws and allow for the creation of a single law. We now propose to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, the Irina Heratschenko bill and to unite the two laws of Irina Heratschenko and the authorship of various colleagues, including Irina Heratschenko, to unify the law presented by our colleague Mustafa Nayem, and to create, on the basis of the committee, one-one law for the second reading. Norms won't be broken, I think we'll be in a short period of time and we'll be able to get one quality law in a short time. And in this way we will help those who need our help to be freed without news. Who needs our help to bring them home when these boys are back to their homes. Please support all colleagues in the first reading of the bill, then the committee will work on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, thank you. Now we're going to talk about the bill. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Thank you. Please, Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u52	The Self-Help Group will support this important legislative initiative in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u53	And thank you so much for voting together all the important humanitarian projects. Please, from the "Peter Dust Block" by Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, we support the committee's decision to unify our bills. I very much ask that we be responsible because this bill is not political, it's not about money, it's about the specific fates of specific people who can't now go back to their families, who are now without pensions, without breadwinners. Please strongly support the bill and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Mr. Yvchenko. He's giving the word "Sergey Soboljevo" to "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u56	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. I personally faced the fact that an officer was killed by a hero protecting the country, his body being torn to pieces, and that did not allow a person to be identified very quickly. But paradoxically, we then had legislation according to which his wife and children had no right to receive help, pensions. And only a personal intervention and a separate act taken by the Cabinet of Ministers allowed an exception to this tragic situation to resolve it. This should therefore be regulated at the legislative level in connection with Russian military aggression, in connection with the annexation of a number of Ukrainian territories. We are now in a situation where those who have taken part in hostilities and whose bodies cannot be recognized. You recall the terrible Ilovia tragedy, where hundreds of bodies, the Debal tragedy, where hundreds of bodies were burned alive. You remember how much time it took to establish at least a portion of the individuals, their remnants, so that their families could receive worthy assistance from the State. I think the drafters here need to find a quick understanding. We have nothing here to drag the rope, we have to take it as a basis, either one, or the other legislative act, by no means postpone its decision. So our faction will vote for both the first and the second, which will win more votes. We need to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u57	Thank you for your position. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u58	An extremely important bill, and I call upon all my colleagues to support it, but to support it, taking into account the alternative bill proposed by Mustafa Najem. Why? Because there's actually quite a large number of missing people who have disappeared in a violent way. For example, under Ilowaysk, a friend of mine who was a volunteer disappeared. Then his tracks seemed to have been traced to Lefortovo, and now we don't know where he is. And here's the question, and there's a lot of questions. So we both need to unite and our faction will vote in favour of both of us in order for this law to be passed, and it is essential for the release and search of those who have disappeared without news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u59	Thank you. I totally agree. Once again, I want to agree with our copyright team, which includes representatives of all factions, including the Radical Party, that we are willing to normally work out a bill to include all the necessary standards that are in the alternative. Last speech by Mrs. Mantis, she's the head of the profile committee, and she's also dealt with questions and exhumations, and body transportation, and the search for missing persons in general. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u60	Mrs. Ola, one second. Colleagues, three minutes. There will be a two-minute vote. I ask all the heads of the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Mrs. Olya, please. Turn on Oli the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the problem is extremely important, extremely relevant. Today, nearly 2,000 remnants of our soldiers have been removed from occupied areas by search groups, and 836 DNA profiles have been identified. On the other hand, nearly one and a half thousand Ukrainian citizens gave up their DNA profiles to find a missing missing person. We have 50 coincidences where relatives refuse to remove missing unconsciousness, which are actually identified, including because they disagree with the results of DNA expertise. And this is a very important collaboration with the International Red Cross in order for these issues to be resolved, so that where there is confirmation, relatives have an obligation to acknowledge the death of a person, so that where there is no death. And actually, including a few hundred bodies that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u62	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u63	30 seconds, please. We have several hundred burials that belong to the bodies, not to Ukrainian soldiers, but to those who fought on the opposite side. And this group must have representatives of the opposite side in order for mothers, widows from occupied territories to have the right to go to Ukraine, to give a DNA profile to find out where their loved ones are buried. Please support the bill and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u64	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. A brief report on this bill by Irina Heratschenko, a minute, and a minute's vote. Come into the hall, take your jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, I think it's very symbolic that on the day of the adoption of the Law on the Reintegration of Donbas, on the first reading, we are voting for the Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons. Taking advantage of the fact that our broadcast is watching so many people, I want to turn to families that have disappeared. Please, you must all pass the DNA test. This is very important for us, as Mrs. Olga rightly pointed out, to be able to locate the bodies of the missing unconscious. And the last. I want to inform you, colleagues, why the search for missing persons is blocked. Because the Ukrainian side insists on creating a mechanism with the participation of Ukraine, Russia and the Red Cross, so that all these moments are taken into account. So far, Russia is firmly against it. But we're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u66	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (No. 5435) proposed by the Committee on the Basis. Everyone please take up their jobs. Don't leave the hall! Maria Ionova! Yeah, well, you're gathering people. Yes. Everybody in place? So based on 5435. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:16:50]] For 224 We didn't make it. We didn't make it. Please, I'll be back in a minute. Yes, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please invite everyone to the hall, colleagues, two votes. I propose to return to the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (5435). Please be very careful when voting. Please vote and support the return. We vote carefully and in agreement. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:17:36]] For 236 236. We're back. And now I'm putting the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (5435) on the basis of a proposal to take into account the rules of the alternative bill when preparing for the second reading. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Let's vote carefully, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote on the base of 5435. [[17:18:10]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, I now ask you to listen carefully to my offer to organize the work. We've, we've only recently lost half an hour for one bill and we haven't been able to make a decision. At the same time, we have some daily bills that require immediate action. Among them is the draft of Law 6120 on physical culture and sports, and we have discussed it many times. And, colleagues, that's why I'm going to propose. I'll put the next bill on the ratings vote. If there are no votes under them so we don't waste time, I'm going to suggest we move on to culture and sport. So I'm asking you to prepare for the rating vote. So now I'm going to put in the following bills. Next we have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the characteristics and financial control of individual categories. Ratings only: 6271. Please hold a rating vote. Please vote. 6271 one. 6271. [[17:19:30.]] For-173 Next, 6674: draft Act on the introduction into the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the characteristics of financial control of individual categories of persons. Only the rating vote. Please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote. This is an e-declaration removal from the public. Please support [[17:19:59]] For 155 Next, 6675: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide public information on the financing of community activities and the use of international technical assistance. The rating vote. Please vote on who supports this bill. [[17:20:33]] For-167 So the following bills, this is Block 1, they don't have enough support in the hall. And so I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to unite all of us so that we can vote on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. Colleagues present at Mr. Suškević’s Hall, authorized by the disabled, who points out that this law simply needs to be adopted at this session. There is a minister of youth and sport present. And, colleagues, we've already put this to a vote. I have a request and an appeal to the entire room to vote. If you don't mind, I'll give Suškević one minute, one minute, colleagues. This is our colleague, I don't think anyone will mind. Turn on the microphone, one minute, and please briefly explain your position to the people’s deputies. Suskevich, turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, take a moment to look at me, the President of the National Paralympic Committee, which is now being delegated to the Olympics and the Paralympics. Friends, in a month and a half, you will watch Korea as two teams of the Olympics and the Paralympics will win the victory of Ukraine in world sport. The main component of these two teams is the bitlon team, that's the weapon. Today, there is no law on the use, transportation, and storage of sporting weapons. Now at the risk of our two teams speaking, please support the Ukrainian Olympics, the Paralympics, and we will win, vote this law on the basis and in general, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u68	So, colleagues, there will be more discussion, colleagues, there will be discussion. Now I'm going to propose that we move on to this bill right now. And I ask, colleagues, regardless of factions, this is a question of our collective and disabled people, please don't bring any political aspects into this. Let everyone who is in the hall vote for this, everyone who is in the hall. Now I'm going to propose that we now go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports (6120). And let's vote for that, and then let's move on to the debate, and let everyone in the room take part in the vote. So I would like to support the proposal that we now go to the draft Law 6120 on Physical Culture and Sports. Please vote, please support, unite, support our athletes, vote, colleagues, each vote, vote. Please vote, let's support it. [[17:23:38]] For 218. Eight votes didn't make it, I can see it, and they didn't just move. Fellows, I ask again, I see, I'll put it back up now, colleagues. Please come into the hall and make sure everyone is in their place of work. You heard the call of an authorized disabled person, be careful, colleagues, when voting. Take the jobs. So I'm once again proposing that we move on to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. The support of our athletes and our disabled people, so I very carefully ask that we vote and support the proposal that we are now moving to the consideration of this bill. Vote, colleagues, carefully and in agreement. Please support, we vote. Please vote, every vote matters, we vote. Vote, fellows! [[17:24:43]] For 237 Decision taken. Now I'm asking you to support the proposal that we've gone through the draft of Law 6120 with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:25:08]] For 201 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovitch. And please, very briefly, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u69	Dear friends, I ask you to vote in favour of such an important law for our Ukrainian athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u70	Thank you. Colleagues — Who Urged to Discuss? All right, colleagues. I'm asking you very much not to put us at risk. We had a voice to each other. That's why there are proposals for both the Radical Party and the Fatherland, so I'm asking you to record: two in, two in, against. You don't? Then there's only one performance: Eutusek, and we vote. Please, Mr. Eutuszek, two minutes. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u71	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm going to take a brief look at an amendment that is in common with the minister of youth and sports, as well as with the head of the committee of profile. I'll also say that Fatherland is prepared to support this bill in general. So I propose that article 48, after part fourteen, be supplemented with a new part of the following content: "The acquisition, storage, transport and use of sports weapons, ammunition and ammunition, the maintenance of archery, shooting sites and stands are carried out according to the legislation of the subjects of physical culture and sport, including the public organization "The Society for the Promotion of Defence of Ukraine" and the legal persons who develop the types of sports recognized in Ukraine, the rules of competition that provide for the use of firearms by athletes, other than combat, or pneumatic firearms, which are refined (cool) and cold weapons." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u72	Please, Silantiev, two minutes. Colleagues, two minutes is the vote. Please. Okay, two minutes, Shinkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u73	The committee at its meeting on 12 April 2017 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (No. 6120), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and reported on the following. During the discussion, members of the committee supported the legislative initiative of the government, since the implementation of the bill would contribute to effective management of the development of sports. At the same time, the members of the committee suggested that the Law on Physical Culture and Sports should regulate the issue of certification of sporting weapons. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the law as a basis. Yet, our committee and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine have repeatedly been approached by representatives of sports federations who are developing a shooting sport in Ukraine with a request to facilitate the speedy adoption of the bill, since problems have arisen by this time. In particular, in Odessa, Poltavska, Kyiv, Cherkaske, Ravenske, and Hersson areas, the National Police Department of Preventive Action has been ordered to stop the work of the school’s sports divisions, which will hinder the preparation and performance of the competitions, particularly in the winter Olympics. In view of the above, if there is no objection, the committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, namely in the definition of "sport weapons" after the word "this" should be supplemented by the words "certified in the established legislation of order." In addition, a new sentence is proposed to the corresponding changes in the article of the Law after the word "and cold weapons" is added: "The calculation and certification of sporting weapons is carried out in accordance with the law of order." Please support, Your Honor, and help our congregation to perform in the winter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u74	Thank you. Ever since BP Shinkovich, one minute. And then the Shepherd from Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that individual factions are absent from the hall when we have a precedent for unification, abandoning all our political ambitions and doing the right thing for the country. And we're very ashamed that individual factions are only on certain, probably where interested people were in the vote, and now they're just not there. What are they doing? They're standing in front of the cameras right now, and they're going to be piazzars when we're with you, dear fellows, we're working. "Peter Prashenko's Block" calls for all to unite and support Olympic and Paralympic sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u76	Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. We propose to support the Law on the basis and generally without amendment. Explain why. To this day we heard speeches by both the Paralympics, and we heard a speech by the minister. In this part about the activities of our athletes, we are ready to support them. If a whole list of public organizations continues to appear, let it even be the Society for the Promotion of Defence, which in no way falls under the authority of the Ministry of Defence or anyone else, and then the legal persons to which they will be established, respectively, make a very broad list of those to whom this weapon may appear. We therefore propose: if necessary, to vote separately and then to vote on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u78	So, just to get it right, to read out the committee's representative, you don't support it? [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Can't hear you.]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u79	Without an amendment read by Silantiev? [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Can't hear you.]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u80	Colleagues, I very much ask you, representative of the committee, agree, we are about to lose our votes. I'm asking you to agree. From the People's Front, Ivanchuk is one minute. And you agree at that time. Silantiev, get your positions in order because we're going to break the law. Please, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u81	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, everyone in this room knows that Minister Zhdanov is the best minister of youth and sport. Given that he is 50 years old recently, our duty today is to give him a gift to all the beatlonists and all the athletes in the ball game. The People's Front will support this law 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u82	Colleagues, did you consult? Did you reconcile your positions? Agreed, right? So let's move on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking everyone to come into the room. Agreed? Colleagues, agree with each other, then I will put to the vote only the committee's amendment, only the committee's amendment, to agree that they would lose the bill. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So, colleagues, please, each vote and I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports (for the clarification of certain provisions) (6120) with a bill that was written by the representative of the Silantiev Committee, Denis Olegovich, on the basis of and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, colleagues, attention! Let's stop the vote. If I call it "Eutushka" right now, we'll lose 20 people. Don't call it Evtushka, we'll lose 20 more. That is the truth. [[B in m in s a l in]] You hear, colleagues, we'll lose either yes or yes. I suggest we don't lose votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u83	Yes, with the committee's amendment. So, colleagues, 6,620 with the right of committee, which was sounded by Silantiev Denis Olegovich, on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general. Please support the committee's proposal. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:34:14]] For 238. The law is passed. Congratulations, Mr. Suskevich. Hello, Minister. And, colleagues, we still have it. Please be. Don't break up, be careful. Now we have a bill, which is also universally binding. Draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land (4638). After this bill, there was a call from several factions that we might consider it today. And I have a request to support the proposal now that we do. Moved to his consideration, he stands through several laws. I suggest we move in with him now. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and I would like to support the proposal that we now move on to draft Law 4638, which is supported by all factions. Careful! Please vote and please support. Please vote 4638. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:35:32]] For 169 Colleagues, pay attention! I'm looking for, in fact, those bills that are in order of the day that have support. Next. Several factions came to the Committee on Cultural Affairs. We have a few determinations. A draft decree on commemorating memorial dates and Jubilee in 2018 All factions support him. The next is a draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. All factions support. And the next one is the draft decision. All these two from culture. I'm asking you, colleagues, now I'm going to put each of them to a vote. I don't think there can be any politics here either, there has to be a general position here. And I'm voting on the proposal that we now go to the draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine (No. 5675-d). Colleagues, let's unite together, let's vote now to consider this decision, and let's take a quick and brief look at it. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. Attention, colleagues, vote, please support. Here's to the 150th anniversary of the Forest of Ukraine. There's no politics here either, there's the common will of the hall. [[17:37:03]] For 203 The next is a draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 18 (No. 7274), a colleague. These are the proposals of all factions. I now propose that we move on to the consideration of this decree. I ask everyone to join us in considering the decree to commemorate the Memorial dates and the Jubilee in 2018. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please, every voice. Please support, we vote. Please vote. [[17:37:47]] For 196 I'll do it again. So, colleagues who support us now to consider the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2018, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:38:17]] For 207 Great lack of voices, colleagues. Unfortunately, there's no way we're going to be able to pass on these bills right now. Mr. Mikolo, unfortunately, you see, there is no room will to move them. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have yet another important debt -- this is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 21, 17th on the adoption of the entire draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. Without considering this draft ruling, I, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, cannot sign the law, and I can put it at any stage without getting the agenda of the day. And that's why I'm asking you to go over it now. I would like to remind you that draft decision cancellation orders do not require a special procedure, they are being considered under the first reading procedure, so the reduced procedure. And we're going to consider the draft decree of 6016-d. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna. Mrs. Alexandro, may I have a word with you? And prepare for the report of Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, Victor Halasyuk and I have filed a draft decree declaring an invalid vote on the Audit Act. In addition to dealing with violations of all the rules of the Rules, which we were given an unmatched edition, the numbering with the amendments we were distributing. The most shameful and unpleasant thing was that the Head of the Supreme Council did not accept our appeal when I personally and some other deputies saw our colleague vote with five cards for the bill. That's unacceptable. In that vocation, I remember having sat for several weeks to defend my right to vote. Our faction never replaces or pushes a button for its comrade, it is unacceptable. This is the principle of our position with Victor Halasyuk that laws can't be broken, which also destroy Ukrainian auditing, Ukrainian, allowing preferences for foreign large companies to be adopted in such a disgraceful way. Then answer your audiences, your voters, how much such a vote costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u85	Thank you very much. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u86	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 16 December considered draft decree No. 6016-d-P of 21.12.17, introduced by the People's Deputies of Halasyuk, Kugel, others. And that's what he's saying. The procedure for revoking Parliament's decisions is provided for in article 48 of the Rules and provides, inter alia, for a member to be referred to the chairman with an application for a violation of the Rules and for a written statement to be made at the same time as a draft order. According to the transcripts of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of 20 and 21 December 17th, one of the Ukrainian national deputies, the author of the draft decree, the national deputy Kugel, during her speech, drew 232 amendments to the Chairman's attention to violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rules. At the same time, according to the provisions of parts five, six and forty-eighth of the Rules, Ukrainian national deputies Halasyuk, Kugel and other national deputies, only eight signatures have submitted a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the entire draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing at registration number 6016-d. According to article 48, part eight, of the Rules, the Committee has reached a conclusion on the project you have the opportunity to familiarize yourself with and invites the Supreme Council to decide whether to adopt a draft decision or to reject it by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u87	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to do the recording: two for, two for, two against. And please take an active part in the discussion. So, colleagues, please record: two in, two in, against, please. Which of the factions hasn't been able to sign up, I'll give the word separately. Please. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to an extremely big problem, the problems of the people of work, the problems of the people of work. The first category of people working is peasants. Today, the price of milk from $5 to $2 a liter fell. For millions of Ukrainian farmers, the cost of milk, the cost of vegetables, is the only source of income, and the opportunity to feed their families. Today, people are following, no one remembers them, no one talks about them. When you were last in this rostrum, except for the members of the Radical Party, you heard of the problems of people working, of workers, of peasants, of intelligence, of budgeters. You're certainly looking at a lot of important issues, but the root of everything is a man of work. How they live, how they earn, whether there are conditions for decent work, whether there are conditions for feeding their children. Look at the exchange rate on the dollar, it's almost 30. And the head of the National Bank of Honduras has a conscience of eight months to rest while on vacation. And the underestimation of Ukrainian citizens' savings, and the small salaries, the pensions that our people receive, which are similarly undervalued by price increases, due to the fall in the rate of the fines. We demand to protect the rights of savings and the labour income of the people of work. First, to President Dusty. Present to the Supreme Council immediately for the new Head of the National Bank. The other one. The immediate report in the Hontareva Parliament for the work done. Third. It's a requirement for the government. Set a minimum price for milk and protect Ukrainian peasants from looting and slaughtering cows. Remember people who work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u89	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word "Juganina Petrovna." Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I thank you all for supporting the adoption of this bill. And I suggest we all vote against this decision. I explain that an auditor’s profession has long needed an update and a complete replacement of those principles and the substance of the work that has been done so far. We do not understand that the implementation of the European directives is necessary for Ukraine and is not only for the implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, but is necessary to restore the reputation of this profession in order to exercise social control over this profession. I have, by the way, prepared for the comments given to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and ready to publish them in order for all the colleagues who referred to these comments to give a decent answer on every point of why these observations are correct, incorrect and which public oversight body we are trying to create in Ukraine. It answers both the Constitution and all other legislation in Ukraine. So once again, hold back from upholding this decision so that the Ukrainian Auditorship Act in Ukraine can be put into operation as soon as possible. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u91	Thank you so much for speaking and for your position. Apparently, Ivchenko, right? You can do it, and you can do it. Let's go first, Yvchenko, two minutes, then Kugel, two minutes. And please sign up, sign up. Vadim Yvchenko, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we've got 10 minutes left, and we're going to have official vacations, but we're with you now, when we've adopted the budget, for example, for the village, we've set up 1 billion to encourage farm development. And you know that today we cannot actually do agricultural service cooperatives, because the Tax Code does not allow agricultural service cooperatives that unite individuals to be exempt from VAT. That is, they are still obliged to raise funds to pay the VAT State. These bills are. Let's vote. Colleagues, next. Today we have a problem with atolls, they will not get land that is appropriate to the state. Let's start them with another compensation mechanism, including money. This bill is, too. Colleagues, family farms. When I'm told that we have the only country in the world today that has a moratorium on land alienation, please tell me, not whether we are the only country in the world where we actually have colleagues, 5 million single-scale farms that produce agricultural products and which are outside the tax field and are not agricultural producers, and this issue needs to be addressed. Let's gradually regulate to involve them in the agrarian market. And what will happen to us? What happens is that we have almost 2 million family farms, multiplied by four, and that 10 million people will be involved in agricultural production. Let's work on that, and we're going on vacations with you, and it's not clear what we're looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u93	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word is invited. Let's get Mrs. Kugel first, and then I'll give it to you. Mrs. Alexander, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u94	I realize that few touch the profession as an audience. Our team, me and Victor Halasyuk's father, were at the beginning of the audit, Nina Petrovna, in Ukraine, and I can tell you that many people didn't know what an audience was, said the auditors. Auditors are not only people who check, but mostly in Ukraine they are small firms that help small and medium-sized businesses, including agriculture, keep accounting, Nina Petrovna, accounting, and you have conducted a rule that if an audit firm is opened, if there are only certified audiences. There can be no such thing in little Ahtirka or there will be no such firm in some district center, there will be no other. You've practically given the market to large companies, understanding which ones are going to fit. You've created a supervisory authority, referring around to European directives. But unfortunately, you didn't read or invite us with the author when they sent two bills to finish. Because you refer to them, but you continue to read them freely, and they do not meet the requirements laid down in Europe. There is nowhere in Europe for a supervisory body created by the audience to be fully controlled by Minfin to determine wages, financial security, but financed by its audience. There is no such thing in life. Please, if it's a supervisory authority, I know you've been on this expedition, you've been watching the World Bank program, for these programs that are experimenting on us, they should be getting married already, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u95	Thank you for the offer. Please turn on Ostrika's microphone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! If there really were those of you who were buttoned up, in approving this law, it would be a disgrace. These people actually put up a new progressive bill, approved by Parliament, on auditing and auditing for almost a month. Self-help is never a button. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And in fact, the buttoning in our room has become one of the ways and mechanisms of delaying the signing of one or the other laws. So I'm now turning to Parliament's leadership when the appropriate IT solutions are finally provided and implemented, a personal button to make it impossible to do so. Now we're not looking at the Audit and Audit Act right now, and I want to remind you that we're only considering a decree that we can't sign it. The head of the Supreme Council can't actually sign it because the signature is blocked, like, because of "buttoning." In fact, however, the Supreme Council has already appointed and voted in favour of the bill. It's really progressive, really the audience has got new European rules, we've really tried with caution, taking into account our Ukrainian realities, to implement the requirements of European directives. In doing so, the interests of small firms are taken into account and, accordingly, the financing of the public oversight body will be carried out in less. In a smaller proportion than the big market players. But the requirements for those audit firms that do audit large taxpayers are gaseous. For those who extract gas and banks, insurance companies should be really high. So I now urge us to unlock the signing of this law so that the Head of the Supreme Council can sign it and pass it on to the President's site. And also, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u97	30 seconds. I've been approached. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u98	And also, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I very much ask you to finally ensure the implementation of that IT solution that will make it impossible to "buttoning." I very much hope that this will be done by you, or at least close within three weeks of recess in the sessions of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u99	Thank you. I want to point out that since the first day of my headship, when there were non-personal voting, I've put the vote to a vote, and every time I've reacted very harshly to any possible facts of "buttoning" in the room. And I will continue to react in a consistent manner. And from the People's Front, there's never been a performance. Maxim Burbak, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, we have heard here a speech by my colleague, the heads of the faction of the political party "Radical Party" of Oleg Láška, about the fact that we haven't mentioned working people from the rostrum, the village workers. Why don't we now mention the work that Nina Petrovna Jujanin did in preparing the bill? Which we've accepted and which retrogrades want to stop and won't let us sign our speaker. So I think we need to open the way right now to implement this legislation to improve the work of our audiences so that every bracelet, every penny, doesn't disappear from the accounts, it's enough to go to the state budget. So once again, I turn to the retrograde forces that stop the adoption of budgets, the adoption of these necessary bills: stop, give new legislation, let Ukraine reform. That's not going to happen, you're not going to get in the way of the development of our independent European Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, there was. Oleg Lazko and the retrogrades were cursed. From. Oleg Easy, one minute. If anyone wants retrograde, I'll give them a minute. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u102	Oleg Lazko. I want to talk to my colleague. Retrogrades are those who deprive Ukrainian peasants of the ability to trade their milk by offering imported milk instead. Retrogrades are those who offer to trade land and unprocessed wood and grain instead of trade in products, create jobs for the Ukrainian labour people, bring currency to Ukraine to be stable prices, stable bracelets to be the development of our own country. Retrogrades are the ones standing in our way, trying to stop our program of building a rich, decent society in our own country. Don't stand in our way, we won't notice, retrograde!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u103	And so, colleagues, time is passing mercilessly. Now, the final word of the author of the bill, Nina Jujanina, is one minute, and we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Nina Petrovna, one minute. And we vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again that the synonym of this bill is transparency and responsibility. It is we who need to regain responsibility for financial reporting and the transparency of financial reporting. And that's what we're trying to do, and we've already done it through the adoption of the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act. We're going to be able to see on the web portals our business subjects, their reporting. And in order to be able to read it, we need the profession of an audience. But it's a responsible profession. And that's the responsibility of the audience, and that's what investment in our economy is all about, because that's why we're making such progressive standards. We have to trust, we have to use those principles in the work that are being done by the whole European Union. And we're trying to apply the best practices right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u105	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u106	So once again, I ask you how you can unlock this law more quickly. It's going to take a lot of time to implement it. It's very good that we've set a deferred standard for the introduction of this law, because we need to sit tight and work on this regulatory framework and create this body. And it's not made up of the Ministry of Finance. There are four and three representatives of the council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m1.u107	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. And I want to remind you that, actually, the draft decision to cancel the decision, it doesn't allow for the law to be signed. Therefore, those who do not vote in favour of the law do not vote in favour of the decree; those who believe that the decree should be supported vote in favour. You got it, right? So I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21 December 2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing, number 6016-d-P. So whoever supports this decision, please vote in favour, who supports the law, on the contrary. Anyone who supports the ruling, please vote. [[18:00:05]] For-53 The decision is not made. This allows me to sign the law. No, for the record. And I, colleagues, will sign this bill in the near future. I consider it important, progressive. And I'm sure the President of Ukraine will sign it as soon as possible. But it's 6:00, and we have to finish our fruitful day. We've made incredibly important decisions today, colleagues, and security issues, and privatization, about economics and the fight against corruption, about helping those who are missing when fighting. We supported Ukrainian sport. He was emotional, heavy, and tense, but a very effective day, colleagues. I welcome you all, all of you, to a beautiful holy dinner, a delicious corner so that you can meet your families and those without families to meet your friends for a holy dinner. And I remind you that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will continue with such a difficult but important work for the country by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. See you tomorrow, colleagues. Nice corner!
