ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please insert the cards into the cells. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:01:12]] There are 344 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with suggestions, statements, reports. And I'm asking all colleagues who want to join the discussion, in this talk, to sign up for this talk right now. I'm announcing a recording. Thank you to all colleagues who intend to take part in this block. And I would like to invite you to the speech of the National MP Lušnjak, to whom his colleague Constantine Ischeikin has transferred the right to speak. Please, Mr. Lušnjak, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u2	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th constituency, Ternopilska. Dear Ukrainian people, presiding, national deputies! For more than 10 years, Ukrainian peasants have been waiting for the Academy of Agricultural Sciences to finally allow the destruction of land that is sometimes used for purposes other than destination. Sometimes they are not assigned or conducting any scientific research. For more than 20 years, there have been no practical studies in Ukraine that would lead our agricultural sector into a forward world economy. All the gains are in fact today the European Union, the Americas, all the seed material, genetic material, both in vegetation and in animalry. The question of why the Academy of Agricultural Sciences should process 250,000 hectares of land is what it says, and in fact, more than 300 documents are used for non-destination. For more than three years, people have been asking me, this is the Horostkov community, hand over the land to the community. More than 1,600 acres [1,600 ha] of agricultural sciences at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, located in the Husatian district of the Horostkow community, is being processed, not by the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, but by various agroholdings. Today, more than 400 people in need of despair have died, and most of them have not been able to wait for the academy to give up their lands and give up on those people who have earned their years, who have given up their lives, who have never been expected. Today, therefore, I ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to immediately listen to the head of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences in order to distinguish this situation, because it cannot be so further, people are waiting, waiting for justice. Why in all the villages around us we've ruined the land and given it to people, and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences can't and won't do it. So once again, I am calling on the Prime Minister of Ukraine to listen to the President of the Academy of Agrarian Sciences, so that they can give these lands to communities and communities to spoil so that people can finally get their constitutional right as other millions of citizens to use their own land, not the land that the oligarchs are processing today. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor, for your statement. And I invite you to the words of the Medunic National MP, to whom is the word of his colleague Lapin, Igor Lapin. Thank you. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u4	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Dear colleagues, we've distributed a customs experiment for the second year to build Ukrainian roads. Costs of redefining the revenues of regional customs are set for repairs of Ukrainian roads, and in almost every area there is such a redefinition. And this year the government assured us that it would be a year of Ukrainian roads. Indeed, from January 1, a road fund was launched. From the government budget, we have allocated an unprecedented amount of funds for the capital repair of roads. Roads go through the cost of a customs experiment, but there are always nuances in these cases that can ruin our efforts. We know that the government has imposed an embargo on the supply of goods from the Russian Federation to Ukraine. As a result, we have two negative problems that need to be addressed. First. The revenue from clearing these fertilizers fell immediately, and road construction costs in many areas do not come. Secondly, the price of fertilizers for native agrarians has risen for domestic farmers. That's why we're asking the government, a group of national deputies signed a petition that this situation should be regulated by the government, and those indications that are listed at local customs have been changed as a result of the introduction of customs tariffs that we've been directing out of goods from the Russian Federation. That's why the government needs to change the state budget rate now. Another question is that the roads we have planned are not always used rationally. For example, on the Ohttirka-Hark road, two billion dollars are planned by the state budget. While the project on this road is only 980 million. The Sumi-Kiyev road is not being repaired at all. Because of such thoughtless planning, funds may simply not be used. A group of people's deputies from Suma County have registered a draft change to the state budget, where we propose that the funds that are free and free from the repair of the Ohtyrka-Kharkov road be directed towards repairing the Sumi-Kiev road, where all the project documentation, whose capital repair project is in Mineconomy and in the Cabinet of Ministers. So we ask the government to make such regulation possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Clothing. And we invite you to the word of Igor Shurma, who is given the right to speak by his colleague Mr. Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u6	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Do you know what unites and what is common between the Central African Republic, the Comorian Islands, Guinea-Bissau and Ukraine. These are four nations that have been failing to pay membership fees to the World Health Organization for two years. How does Ukraine differ from those three nations? The three nations still have their health ministers. We have two years in a row without a minister of health. This means that every Friday there is an underprivileged government because they cannot be staffed. Moreover, each of you knows that if you owe someone and you are in debt, and you are invited to the West, you are an underprivileged guest. What is asked is the official composition of a delegation of three, plus two public activists going to the official meeting of the Assembly of the World Health Organization without the right to vote. There's not enough work to do here? What, the ministry today has dealt with all the poisons we have going to school? Is it possible that a representative of our ministry would speak there and speak, approach international organizations? We gave you 12 billion dollars, and you gave us only 7 billion dollars of medicine. You come, distinguished experts from all over the world to our hospital and look. You took 5 billion from us, you didn't give us money, you didn't have anything to treat us with, and people are dying in us. You think that's a question you're raising? No, you will be told how to fight worms, how to act when someone has, excuse me, women, menopause, and how to fight reptiles. What's more, on Twitter, you can imagine a representative of the executive power of the so-called The minister reports that at 9:30 a.m. Bank will be held under the Presidential Authority for the Liberation of the Shadows. What does that mean? What the President's Administration is doing nothing after these people were released, it says so. Minister. And they gave the word of speech to the so - called Minister at the Assembly of the World Health Organization Do you think she was talking about health care? About the problems we have? Is there no concept or strategy? She went out in the mansion, "Free the Shadow!" and made a political report. And the same report was two years ago. There is one question: Why are such people, the Cabinet of Ministers, sent to a meeting of the World Health Organization? Maybe sitting around and listening, there's no education for that, then she went to work, but at what cost? We're asking this person here to report and listen to Order 5642 on the appropriateness of the position. Either Kabmin is like our ministry, or you can put order in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u7	Please welcome Alexander Chernenko, who is given the right to speak by the national MP Lavric. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Very soon, on June 1, we will celebrate, if we can call it a holiday, such a sad date: most members of the Central Electoral Commission will enter the eleventh year of their position instead of the seven years they are supposed to be there. We can tell for a long time why we have not yet fulfilled our responsibilities and have not changed those members of the CLTC whose authority has ended. But just a few weeks ago, we got close to that decision. There's a proper submission to the President, there's a proper decision by the committee, but again, we don't get it. Once again, MPs, factions, and groups find thousands of reasons not to support this decision. What's even weirder is to hear it from the factions that have been consistently demanding for several years now let's finally change the C.V.C.C., let's finally change the C.V.C.C., and today they find a thousand reasons not to do it, someone is afraid of a term election, they're saying, change the C.V.C.C., they're going to be term elections. Don't worry, there won't be any early elections. And if there is a decision on such elections, believe me, this composition of the Central Electoral Commission will lead them and it will not blink. Some say that not all the interests of factions are taken into account. The president included most factions and groups. Someone doesn't like the staff. Friends, I'm responsible to tell you, I've studied experience, and many of the people that the President has proposed I know personally, they're quite professional and very good professionals. I don't think there's any point. Clearly, then, there are other reasons. Someone. Someone has an old C.V.C.C. because he has three or more loyal members there, and he may be in the future. She'll have less. Someone's simple. For someone, the more important the process of fighting for the new CLTC is the more important than the result, and someone wants a constant welcome for criticism. This is all from the wicked one. Guys, let's get together here soon, confirm and finally pay our debt to society, approve the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, because no one has the right to put the results and those elections in OTG that are taking place today and those future parliamentary, presidential and local elections. Friends, I urge you to come back to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Oleg Lazko is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Oleg. Oleg Laishko is given the word of his colleague, Mr. Rybalko, and the national deputy, Kirichenko. Please give me six minutes to make the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yesterday, from this parliamentary rostrum, we raised an extremely important issue of the future Ukrainian land. I warn the Ukrainians that today, in fact, Ukraine is declared a battle to rid us of the land so that Ukrainian peasants will cease to be masters and Ukrainians on their own land. Transnational corporations, by all means, through the loans of the International Monetary Fund, are seeking land through any other decision. And yesterday’s decision by the European Court of Human Rights confirms that there is now a situation in which the Ukrainian people cannot manage their own land. The European Court of Human Rights gave an assessment of our Law on the Moratorium for the sale of agricultural land. This moratorium is recognized as violating the European Convention on Human Rights and obliging Ukraine to cancel. So at one wonderful moment, it can turn out to be what it used to be with a farmer in the Dnipropetra, who died, and didn't cool off the body, the registrar in Odessa copied his property and his farm to the raiders, who came in a week later to take over the land, take off the property, the tractors, the grain and everything. And people went, halfway to the other neighborhood actually to stand up for one position or another. So it's going to turn out that we're here to discuss the moratorium, the changes to the Constitution, the farming system, and some courts are going to decide for us and decide who owns the Ukrainian land. The next requirement that the International Monetary Fund will raise when gas prices rise is the introduction of the land market. Today, the authorities are actually coming after the International Monetary Fund, making commitments to increase gas prices. Eleven thousand dollars for a thousand cubes requires the IMF to pay Ukrainians for gas. And power to us, like the drug addicts sitting on the dose, says we can't do anything, we have to raise gas prices. And those of you who make a commitment to raising gas prices, do you even think with your brains? Who can pay for such money? Where does a man get 11,000 dollars to pay for a thousand cubic metres of gas? It used to be thought that civilization is going into gasification, and people today are giving up gas and moving on to wood, just like in the 19th century. The whole world is moving forward, and we are being driven by such policies by international swallows that we are going back to the past. And Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian citizens today are forced to cut off gas, buy wood, or cut land in order to burn down their homes, warm their families. The next requirement after rising gas prices is to sell land. The International Monetary Fund wanted to push this requirement into a memorandum signed last year. It was only by our position and position that 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens against the sale of land were afraid to write it in a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. If the demand and the price of gas goes up now, they will no longer be held back. Because they will see that the Ukrainian authorities are unable to defend national interests, that the Ukrainian authorities can meet any requirement by blackmailing Ukrainians by blackmailing the Ukrainian Parliament, and so the next requirement is to sell the land. And we'll have the President, the Prime Minister, the other servants of the International Glythes coming back here and telling us that tomorrow the sun won't come, the Ukrainian land won't give birth, they won't give us another tranche of credit if we don't sell the land. And they're going to force this selling government majority to pass these laws. Is I will burn to the mother of hell this rostrum along with this Parliament! But we will not sell the land and take the future to the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian nation. I call on all the healthy forces in Parliament and outside Parliament to unite their efforts and not allow the earth to be torn apart. It's not about power, it's not about the presidential chair, it's not about Laska, it's about fighting for Ukraine, it's about fighting for the country, it's about fighting for the Ukrainian peasant and it's about the future of the Ukrainian state. In order not to lead to extremes, we are proposing a civilizational path of development – making changes to the Constitution (two years ago we registered them). Article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine states: "Agrarian farming is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine." Kill the autumn klick in the plans of international financial glytes, transnational corporations, in their plans to take our land. In the Constitution, to write down, the master of the land is a Ukrainian peasant, a Ukrainian farmer, and by doing so all the laws are passed. We will not be told outside in court who owns the Ukrainian land. The Ukrainian land belongs exclusively to the Ukrainian people because you are now selling land for the International Monetary Fund’s credit. Where will the Ukrainians go tomorrow if they live? What will they earn, and how will they feed their families? We demand that we stop selling land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u11	The national deputy Keith, Andrew Keith, is invited to the floor by his colleague, National Deputy Kulinic. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, St., Jewish. I'm here because I want to protect our warriors, the war veterans in the East. We make a lot of good laws here that protect our military, we talk a lot about it, and we show a lot of this. But in fact, our actions here in Parliament are not always reflected in real life, but rather things are happening the other way around. Yes, I was recently defending military pensioners, so unfortunately, and the decision that essentially limited their pensions and wasn't made, it was partially executed, and the actual pensions of military pensioners were reduced, as we now have the Second Cabinet of Ministers Order 197 of 14.03. In 2018, according to which funds for the travel of war veterans are transferred to local budgets. And the defined marginal size of this, the average calculated amount of this amount is 135 dollars per month. I would like to remind everyone that the assistance for the passage in question was guaranteed by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, article 12. Translating the funds into a local budget that, without translation of the corresponding sources of revenue, actually means that even local budgets in the size of that marginal budget can't pay it at all as such. But I want to turn to something else. I want to tell you how much it costs for war veterans. I have, for example, many people in the district who have been injured. Once a week or twice a week, they have to go to Winnicki to a military hospital. It costs 50 bucks to go one way, 100 bucks to go the other way. In order for a person to feel normal, he must have at least a thousand rights to travel, and we have a total of 135. What does it mean that we have no money in the country to ensure the passage of war veterans? Is this still a cynical abuse of people who spend their lives for our country? I don't get it, it's ambiguous treatment, it's a substitution of concepts. I demand -- I demand that the budget society, the budget committee review these articles for that article of the Cabinet of Ministers. We must find sources and ensure the full free passage of our war veterans east of our country. It's not a request, it's a requirement of my associations of veterans of the Hoderland of the Jews and the Streaks. I'm going to demand it to the end. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u13	Thank you so much for your presentation. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Paul Kiskar. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u14	Dear friends! Dear enemies! The war continues, and I will be asked to stand still for a moment of silence to mention the Maybeard of Vladimir, Olive Andrew, Kutzmay Viacheslav, who died in the near future in eastern Ukraine. For me, this is an example and a pattern of that sacrifice, beginning in 2014, they fought for the coming years, protecting our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u15	Thank you. Please honor everyone who has died for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u16	These are people with capital letters who have shown by their own actions, by their own lives, an example for our offspring. The second question is brief and clear. The breast of Viácheslav Maximovich Crnovola disappeared in the region of the Cherkas region. Thank you to the National Police for reacting quickly and to the head of the police in the area of Cherkas, who is at the scene of the kidnapping, for taking action. But please consider this statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the head of the National Police of the Cherka district for the purpose of returning the breast to its place. Last but not least, this is a brief comment by the esteemed Minister of Education, who mentioned the territorial principle of distribution and acceptance in the first classes, which really doesn't work and can't work hypothetically. Because today a whole series of exceptions, ten of them seem to be in place for adoption in the first classes. Today, this not only creates conflict between parents but also increases the price of a corrupt component for a first - grade director. It's very strange that we still haven't moved away from the falcon principle and we can't start, for example, an electronic queue so that people who plan to teach their children can register their children on time and see them on a register in the list of people who are going to be admitted to the first classes of one school or another. Last question about the earth. I think we're going to have a lot of discussion in this room, too, but my story is personal. My mother, when she got cancer, was unable to sell her pie because what the farm offered her was ten times less than the market price. Of course, for $300 to $500, she couldn't cure a serious disease and she died. Thus, a million 100 pie owners who could not manage their own future, future grandchildren or children could not strengthen themselves or their family died. I'm sure that I had this, remember, I was bringing a post from Kernell who offered a 99-year rent for his pie in advance to sell his pie. The ransom takes place immediately. You come to Kernell, you give away your pie, and immediately 99 years in advance, you get paid rent. This is a testimony that big corporations are comfortable with the situation that has now arisen, that this moratorium is convenient, and they're going to invest millions of dollars to use Ukrainian land in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u17	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Victor Chumak, who is given the right to speak by his colleague Krivochatko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u18	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev Yesterday there was a new sociology published, which, to me, was very interesting, interesting, not the ratings of the candidates, not the ratings of the parties, not the level of trust or mistrust in them, there was an interesting table. And this interesting table told us what to do to an international society if the measures of the Ukrainian authorities in anti-corruption policy are negative if anti-corruption laws are not passed and the level of corruption is not reduced. And you know, 47 percent of Ukrainian citizens are saying that, in terms of Ukrainian politicians, Ukrainian officials, who are the brake of anti-corruption reforms, should be subject to personal political and economic sanctions. This is wonderful, since citizens understand that it is not necessary to order the whole country, it is necessary to order personally those who want to take advantage of politics who want to take advantage of their administrative or political capabilities. You know, it's quite possible because the authorities in the President's administration want to have full control over all the anti-corruption bodies that are in the state. NATION has been controlled, NAB has been trying to take control, and they are trying to take control of certain measures. Today, I was surprised to learn from the committee that we had a sickly duty to call the chairman of the committee only to conduct and appoint an NABU audience today. Appoint an auditor of the NABU in spite of the rules adopted by the committee. In spite of the fact that even none of the people who went to the NABU audience had received a message from the committee that they were invited to the committee and wanted to talk to them. I have a letter from a representative, let's say, or one of Mr. Firestone's candidates from the United States, who wrote yesterday, "No messages from the committee about any interviews or anything else, I didn't get from the committee." I would like to say that the same situation has been the case with the Anti-Corruption Court Act, the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. We understand very well that in principle we do not agree with one but a key requirement. The key requirement of Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people, the key requirement and international partners. And this requirement is about whether this court will be independent and there will not be judges corrupt and judges who are on hand in the administration of the President, or not, or whether it will be so that this court will be appointed again by the disgruntled judges. I want to warn the authorities that such games do not lead to anything good or good. The election will put everything in its place. Sometimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u19	15 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u20	Sometimes it's hard when you lose an election, sometimes it's very painful when you're kicked out of the country. So, look, don't make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we just had a minute left. I give the last speaker a word right now, this is the National MP, Artushenko, who is handed over the right to speak by his colleague, Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! In fact, for more than four years now, the Ukrainian state has been fighting on two fronts. With one hand, we fire from the outside, from the Russian invaders, trying to preserve Ukrainian statehood, Ukrainian independence. And at the same time, a fierce struggle continues on the internal front against the past fast-tracked system, against corruption that has for years prevented Ukraine from developing normally, have economic growth and have a desire for people to develop, live in our country. What has been done in this time period? In fact, there's a lot. If you think about all the decisions made in this room, it's also the creation of the NABA, and the creation of the NAMK, and the creation of the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and the creation of an electronic declaration. At the same time, this is the creation of the ProZorro electronic purchasing system, this is the adopted Special Confiscation Act, and the money of the past criminal authority is going back to the Ukrainian budget and working for Ukrainian citizens. This is the creation of a mechanism for the purchase of drugs through international organizations, which has already given the economy about 40 percent of the budget. And according to some positions, prices for medicines in international organizations were 67 times cheaper than those purchased in 2011, 2012. Without a little, I can say that no parliament, no president, has any government done more in all the years of independence than our President and this is the convening of the Supreme Council. And that's what Europe and the United States and all the independent experts are talking about. But is that enough? Of course not. Of course, all the facts I have listed are more the fight against the consequences of corruption than the causes. And the big reasons really are two, the real basis for corruption: it's a criminal Soviet moratorium on land that has for decades prevented the country from developing, it doesn't really give Ukraine a European country, it drives us into partnership with North Korea and the Congo, and Venezuela, and it's a lack of transparent privatization. Because state-owned enterprises remain the breadwinner for all political elites, and that is why the fight is going on. But there are two specific debts that we can resolve in the near future. It's an anti-corruption court, and I'm very glad that today is the day-to-day issue, and hopefully tomorrow we'll get a positive vote and a real independent court that will use confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u23	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u24	corrupters. And selecting the audience of the NABA from Parliament. Despite the fact that the issue is being blocked, despite the fact that the contests are being blocked, no matter what everyone is saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u25	Thank you very much. I now invite Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, to speak. And we're going to have two more speeches in connection with the intermission applications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the theme of the Kremlin was already on this rostrum, and I would like to continue this problem. Today, the tenth day is being starved by Oleg Shadows, a Crimean Ukrainian who demands the liberation of all Kremlin political prisoners. More than 60 Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars are held in Russian prisons, often even by consuls. During those four years before Oleg, the consul had never been allowed in the same way as Alexander Kolchenk. Because the Russian occupation regime of all criminals has forcibly registered with the citizens of the Russian Federation. And the U.S.C.A. last turned to the Russian authorities on April 30th, May 16th, requiring the permission of the consuls, there is no answer. Similarly, we have clear information from lawyers with whom we are in constant contact from families about the deterioration of Stanislav Clich’s health, Greeb, Baluch Volodymira, who has been starving for more than 60 days. And it seems to me that we have to support all the actions that public activists today, carefree people conduct on purpose, where they should be, under the embassies of the Russian Federation and under the consulates. Because the keys to all prisons are kept, not in the Bank’s but in Putin’s Kremlin, it is Putin’s job to demand the release of our hostages. I would like to point out that in Minsk, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, we have announced our clear position on Ukraine’s willingness to hand over 23 Russian prisoners convicted in Ukraine for fighting on the Donbassa, Russia for the liberation of Kremlin political prisoners. And for two months now, we don't have any answer from the Russian side, which is the answer that Russia doesn't care about its citizens, but they torture Ukrainians as well. And that's why we're trying to use all the mechanisms, all the possibilities and pathways for pressure on the Russian Federation. We thank Mrs. Merkel, who, during her visit to the Russian Federation, raised the issue of prisoners. We know and we hope that the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, will raise this question during his visit to Russia. But we urge the whole world to actually push the Russian Federation with one requirement: to release Ukrainians who have been illegally held there for more than four years. And, colleagues, there is one key problem where you need an active position. Please tell us why only Ukraine requires the International Committee of the Red Cross to be admitted to prisons in Crimea, to prisons in occupied territory, and to our political prisoners in Russia. I very much ask you all to join this requirement. The Red Cross is to visit our citizens. And the last. Just now, Irina Podowak has taken the very right initiative to go to the Ukrainian Diaspora around the world so that the diaspora can have a couple of pints and rallyings under the Russian embassies, demanding the release of Kremlin political prisoners. Dear diaspora, we need your voice today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u28	Dear Ukrainian Diaspora, dear brothers and sisters! We need you today, and our prisoners need your support. In all European capitals, in the capital city of the United States, hold crucifixes and rallys with one requirement: the will of Kremlin political prisoners, the will of Ukrainians and the Crimean Tatars! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u29	Thank you. We have two statements, statements from the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. Who will act? People's MP Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u30	Dear People's Deputies, Vladimir Solovov has a wonderful phrase: "The purpose of the state is not to create a paradise on earth, but to make human life a living hell." I think and I find that the Ukrainian authorities today have succeeded. She cannot forgive people for her own mistakes. We're talking a lot about reforms here, and I was surprised to hear how the United States of America and Europe are supporting us hotly -- that's very good, but it would be even better if people supported power and supported the state in this way. I think we should just ask people how they feel about the first problem: tariffs. They are totally insurmountable to humans. And to hear the strange chatter of our officials who say that tariffs are higher in Europe. In doing so, they forget the basics: the level of pay in Europe. The second problem is an absolute no-road. A united territorial community has been formed, and there is no connection between them. And they're all out of line, they're all down to united territorial communities. Passenger transport is out of service, people are in absolute isolation. This is primarily true of rural areas. Usually, during the election, everyone runs to the people because they are disciplined in the polling stations. Another problem is scrapped gas. We don't have much gas stations. Today, a gas balloon costs 550 dollars and people tell us, go to gas stations for cars and buy gas there. Is it that a third of the gas costs pensions? All references to the government are zero. The next question is, the wages in the form of a subsidy for teachers and doctors are underfunded. The principle is simple: Use local reserves, and this requires OTG to shut down schools and release teachers, and we have a theme: huge reforms. Take a look at life, your respectable colleagues, open your eyes, and you'll see what's going on in the countryside. People are just catastrophically dying. And the last. I've had to talk about Ponnikovsky a hundred times. A Ponkin paper combination kills the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun, killing people. Answer: Zero, not correct, not responding. It turns out we have no authority in Ukraine. I demand that the authorities take effective action. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u31	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u32	Otherwise, people say they're going to meet the cowards who will travel from Poland to Ukraine on the Kiev-Chop route. If the authorities want this gift, please. Let one of the heads of the government go up and see what's going on there, everything's dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a statement from two factions from Fatherland and Self-Help. Our colleagues are ready to take a break for the performance and we grant our fellow national deputy, John Grigorovich Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the chorus of yesterday sounded like the echoes of the adoption of yesterday’s laws on agricultural reform. and again raised the issue of the earth’s market. Of course, the external influence is something obvious or governance, it is clear that in this room the Anti-Corruption Court Act will be passed in one way or another. And then the next fundamental requirement that we're going to be affected is going to be hit, of course, by the land market. So, from this rostrum, I want to officially say to those who insist on the land market, even though there hasn't been a land market in the world for a long time, there's a scientific notion of land circulation and capitalization, because 0.7 percent of the world's land is being sold, but 70 percent is a bank bond. Earth is not traded. Well, I'd like to make an official statement. Yesterday you and I made a completely epochial decision -- we've unlocked for all the opponents who are against it and who's behind it, we've unlocked the circulation of agricultural land. First reading of the Family Farm Act, we're amending the 31st article of the Earth Code, where blacks in white are written: 5 hectares of land for everyone who wants to create a family farm. Seven years later, 2 hectares free of charge, and another 3 hectares free of charge, a 20 - year - long ransom. The answer is clear from the world’s experience. Last night, there were 2.5 billion acres [2.5 billion ha] of land processing 500 million farm farms, five acres [5 ha] per brother. Poland created 2.6 million family farms as soon as it embarked on reforms in the early years. For Poland, agricultural activity is not much the same as for Ukraine. Up to 10 hectares. Count how much this is. How many might our peasants have been in the land? 4 million households that feed us are supportive: 82 percent of milk, over 90 percent of vegetables, fruit, potatoes, pork, and beef. Friends, that's the answer to the question, they can expand their farming. Yes, this law can. Not in 30 hours, 5 hectares. National Interest? National. Our peasants? Ours. All over the world? Yes. It's a common policy of the European Union agrarian, so it's called SAP. It provides support for family farming and environmental production. What did we do wrong? I call on this statement, to the government, to all the negotiators with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the EBRD, the European Union. We have complied with the requirement. Executed! Don't push us. Negotiator boys, come out of the trenches, it's time to demonstrate national interest and Ukrainian pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u35	Thank you. So, colleagues, the speeches by the deputies are finished. The first issue in the agenda is the draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Metric Convention (0181). And I'm voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:48:00]] For-93 Thank you. There is the will of the hall to consider the full procedure. And we're moving on to the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u36	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, a bill to join Ukraine in the Metric Convention is being submitted to your consideration. The bill envisions Ukraine’s accession to the Metric Convention, held in Paris on May 20, 1875. The Metric Convention is an international agreement aimed at developing and supporting the international benchmarks of the unit measurement system of the international unit system. To date, the Metric Convention has 58 member states, 41 countries have associated membership, including Ukraine in 2002. Taking 16 years as an associate member and the contributions that have been made, Ukraine will be exempt from the payment of an entrance fee to the Metric Convention of 50,000,306 euros. The adoption of the draft law will enable the national benchmarks of Ukraine to be verified with national benchmarks of 58 member states of the Metric Convention, to buy at cost a calibrated platinum-Iridium standard of kilograms. Today, Ukraine has a national standard of kilograms of stainless steel at a lower level. Obtaining services for calibration of Ukrainian benchmarks and accessing limited sections of the International Bureau of Peace and Weights website that contain scientific and strategic information that are unacceptable to associate members. Dear National Deputies! Considering that the adoption of the bill will allow Ukraine to fulfil its commitments under the EU Association Agreement on Participation in International Organisations and Legislative and Scientific Metrology and the recognition of the metrology system of Ukraine at international level, please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, three minutes of question to the reporter. Thank you. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u38	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Reporter, first of all, please state your position that the ratification of the convention and as a result of our international reputation, which is still there, is on Wednesday when there are no deputies. And maybe it's a call to the head of the Supreme Council to publish if we fail this convention. And the second is in a coalition agreement. We don't have the Ministry of Economics systematically implements the coalition agreement, or the Export Credit Agency, completely shut down the creation. Neither the creation of industrial parks, nor the dispossession and destruction of the corporate legal form of enterprises. Thus, 3,000 corruption reserves continue to exist. How do you feel about this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u39	Thank you. I'll give you my word. Mr. Victor, why don't you ask me a few questions on Wednesday? I have a question for you. To announce holidays or what to do on Wednesday? I have a question for you, you say, "Don't put it on Wednesday." What about Wednesday? Why even raise these questions? We accept most of the ratifications on Wednesday. I'll give you a chance to speak. You came to me. I'll give you an answer. Wednesday's a work day. We have to go to work and work on Wednesday, like any other day of work is my general position. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. As far as connection is concerned, I think it's important. First, this corresponds to the EU Association Agreement. And for today, the question is, in principle, it should have been solved much earlier. As for, you say, the failure of the Ministry of Economic Development. I can't agree, actually, yes, there are certain things that they are in the process of time, and a lot of legislative acts, let me be honest, if you take even intellectual property, you know, eight bills in the Council and, well, unfortunately, we can't always accept it quickly. But the process is going on, and I'm going to tell you frankly that we are setting the maximum deadline for this year to adopt as many bills as possible thanks to Parliament's unity this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u41	Thank you. Kishkar Paul conveys the word for the question of Guild Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u42	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to use it as a replica so I don't take your word for it. I support what you say. Maybe the international ratifications will put on Tuesday-four, taking this kind of discipline of our colleagues in the hall so that we don't embarrass ourselves in front of the world, so our internal discussions are our internal issues, we don't have to bring them on the outside. It's like an offer. And I totally support what you said. Nevertheless, the very situation in the Ministry of Economics. We would very much like the Minister of Economic Development and Trade, whom we respect for the Ukrainian central position, for publishing books and for much patriotic reasons, to take a clear position on the implementation of the coalition agreement so that his colleagues, the deputies, do not speak publicly and say that the ban on the exports of roundwood should be lifted when we have more than 50 new factories built to actually create jobs. So it's like a question and an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Mikola Ivanovich. Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u44	Thank you. I heard you. I don't think that's a question for me, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u45	Thank you. Question time is complete. Thank you for the report, Mikhail Ivanovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u46	Good afternoon, fellow citizens, speakers! On 16 May of this year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft be adopted on the basis and as a whole. I would like to remind you that Ukraine has been participating in the General Conference on Measurements and Weights since 2002 and is paying a contribution annually to the International Bureau of Measurement and Weight at the expense of the state budget. But the status of an associate has a number of limitations. In particular, regarding the inability to participate in national reference animals, the lack of voting rights at meetings of the General Conference of Peace and Weights, the inability to participate in the work of advisory committees, etc. That is why joining the convention will allow Ukraine to enjoy the rights granted to the member States of the International Bureau of Peace and Weight. And now there are 58 States that are members of the Metric Convention, and so Ukraine will be given the right to vote at the General Conference of Peace and Weights, to use the services of calibration of national benchmarks, to participate in key beliefs and beliefs with international prototypes held by the International Committee of Peace and Weights, to have access to limited sections of the website from the International Bureau of Measurement and Weights, which contain scientific and strategic information. Ukraine will also be able to involve experts from the scientific metrology centres of Ukraine in the development of qualifications programmes and, as a result, will increase the metrological impact and competitiveness of Ukraine in the Eurasian region. I would also like to point out that Ukraine's accession to the metric convention is due to Ukraine's implementation of the provisions of the Association Agreement with the EU, according to which Ukraine is to fully ensure the participation of relevant national authorities in European and international organisations with the standardization of legislative and fundamental metrology, conformity assessment. I would like to say right away that the committee recommends that we take this as a whole. Telling us immediately what is of great importance to us because it is the accession to this convention that will help Ukraine to implement the Association Agreement as well. We also have, already in the budget, those contributions that Ukraine will continue to pay. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to urge all deputies to return to the session room so that we can work productively today, because after the ratification, we also have a day-to-day start in the second reading of the anti-corruption court. I think one of our important responsibilities is to keep working. And so I urge my colleagues to come and vote for this important ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the interview, the head of the profile committee. Please. Please have a question from the national deputy of Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u48	Paul Kishkar, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." In fact, there will be more proposal to the head of parliament in order to support the idea of reviewing large bills and considering rights on Wednesday, and to move the conventions to Tuesday, Thursday, where these conventions will be supported immediately, almost without discussion, and quickly. And we will not be humiliated in an international environment. And to the chairman of the committee, a simple question. What exactly does the State have for us to join this convention? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u49	The answer, please, is dear Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u50	Thank you, Sir Paul Kishkar. Ukraine will be given the right to vote at the General Conference on Measurements and Weights, to use the services of calibration of national benchmarks, to participate in key beliefs and trusts with international prototypes held by the International Committee on Measurements and Weights. Access the limited sections of the website of the International Bureau of Measurement and Weights, which contain scientific and strategic information. It is extremely important, since we have been an associate member since 2002, we also pay our contributions. But full membership will expand our capabilities, especially by joining the Metric Convention. And the Metric Convention, it's been in operation since 1875, we can imagine. So I think it's very important that we finally have the opportunity to take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u51	Thank you. Next question from the national deputy Oleg Musia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u52	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Lviv. Please indicate, Madam Head of the Committee, of course, that there are no deputies who would not support the ratification of the Metric Convention. But you know there's another convention that's been considered a month ago, and it's been very serious. Could you now describe what the attitude of the committee is and what the chances of this calling for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, in a people called a gender convention, are actually going to be the veiled protection of women's rights, children's rights, there and everyone else's rights. What does the committee think about the ratification of this important Istanbul convention as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Oleg. We have a working group, led by Irina Stepanovna Lucenko, who is preparing after Parliament failed the ratification of the Istanbul Convention because there is no political will at present in the session hall for its ratification, there is agreement with representatives of various social groups, including lengthy discussions with the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and with many other representatives of the public. So I think that Ukraine has taken a big step forward, especially by adopting legislation that is important for the protection of women's rights, preventing domestic violence, making changes in law enforcement agencies, such as the police, creating hot lines that are supposed to function, teaching our police officers how to help when there are, among other things, beatings and violence against women. So we've taken this step forward to protect women from domestic violence, not by ratifying even the convention itself, but by adopting these important legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u54	Thank you. There are no further questions to the honourable account, and time has run out for questions. Please go to your place of work. Colleagues, I ask you to sign up from factions to discuss the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention. Please, everyone who wants to sign up for the factions, please. Please, Yuri Solovay, who represents the position of the Peter Dusty Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u55	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! Well, with all due respect to the Metric Convention that we're considering today, let's face it, is that one of the top economic laws that we should be considering today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? If we look at today's agenda and the issues that we're going to consider tomorrow or the next plenary week, that's the issue of the anti-corruption court, that's the issue of the CLTC, but we don't see any systemic strategic economic bills -- I'm first referring to the government -- that would define a strategy, an economic strategy for the development of the Ukrainian state. In four years, I've been addressing my fellow parliamentarians, and unfortunately we haven't been able to answer the question of state ownership. We have 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises left to feed political elites, and we don't see any legislative initiative to either privatize or transfer these state-owned enterprises to independent asset management companies. In four years, we have never approached the issue of tax reform. We talked about it, and we forgot about the U.K. Tax Act on the outstretched capital, which would be a huge locomotive for the development of the Ukrainian economy and the source of investment that everyone talks about, but unfortunately, they don't take any steps. We have not taken a step closer to implementing insurance medicine in our country in the last four years. We're talking, but we're talking about Ukraine being an agro-industry plant not only in Europe, but in the whole world, unfortunately, there's not a single bill in Parliament so far that would open up the market for land and unfortunately the position of government that would talk about it. The only reform that we've come closer to economically, which would allow us to invest heavily in the Ukrainian economy, is reform. Pension reform and the introduction of a mandatory accrual pension system Moreover, I want to say that more than 60 national MPs have co-sponsored this bill. But unfortunately, this bill is putting it in a deadlock, and, unfortunately, we still can't look at it today in the walls of Parliament, but it's time to consider metric conventions. That's why I'm addressing, first of all, the government and the leadership of Parliament. We have to form economics. The economic order of the day of serious structural strategic economic reforms and, above all, to begin with the mandatory accumulation of the pension system, which we talk about very much in the walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I invite you to the floor of the National MP Igor Mosiyczuk, who represents the position of the Radical Party faction on the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u57	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I'm ashamed of the Ukrainian Parliament for what's happening here. The absolute rightful leader of our Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, when he says that we have to halve the number of parliamentarians. After all, if only that amount comes to Parliament, perhaps Ukrainian taxpayers do not need to support people anymore. An important convention, but how is it viewed? No less important is what happens and will continue. The next is the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court project. Enough fooling people, telling people about the fight against corruption, and in fact, the Banking Authority of the President is fighting Tank Street, where the U.S. Embassy is influencing this court. Do any Ukrainians believe that those who have been accused of corruption in recent years will now pass judgment on a fair trial? Stop fooling people. It stands in one row from the creation of this led court in one row, with the price of gas rising, and most importantly, the attempt to sell our Ukrainian land to international glytes. Because whoever votes in favour of this court votes for the gas price increase at the same time for the sale of Ukrainian land. And Ukrainians will see it and will appreciate it. You, dear colleagues, have spit on the Constitution of Ukraine. You hanged her in a different place here in Parliament, because medicine was paid, you accept the courts as a violation of the Constitution and so on. And most importantly, you kill Ukrainians, you kill Ukrainian villages. Just in the village of Medina Galician district of Frankish province, agroholding poisoned the surrounding area: 16 cows were killed, a poisoned shepherd girl. I demand an investigation. Yesterday, in Borispol, six people were poisoned, today in Medina, in Frankish. You're killing Ukrainians. You're selling Ukrainians to international institutions. The war is now going on two fronts: against the Russian invader and the international swallows who want to buy the Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u58	Thank you. My colleagues, I must point out that we are now discussing, perhaps someone has forgotten, the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention. And I ask you to mention this not only in the last sentence but in the course of the discussion. Please welcome to the floor the Kodol People's Deputy, who represents the position of the People's Front faction. Please. We're going to have to get out of the place, and a colleague in front of him, we're asking him to give us a chance to see the Kodolu People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u59	Alexander Kodolah, Chernigovishte. 209 constituency, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the issues that are all important today in the agenda -- and the issue of ratification, and the issue of conventions, international agreements -- are precisely why this bill, which we are considering today, is about the possibility of our State joining the international Metric Convention, which will allow us to acquire membership of Ukraine and the International Bureau of Peace and Weight. That's why our faction will, of course, support this bill and vote in favour of Ukraine's accession to the International Metric Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u60	We thank the People's Front very much for the constructive position of the state. Colleagues, so we have three factions who have spoken and expressed their position as to how a single faction will vote for the Metric Convention. Whether there is a wish for representatives of other factions -- Self-help, Fatherland, Opposition Block, or groups -- to speak. I don't have the right to break the Rules. I asked if the factions all came out. I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Please. Please, Borislav Bereza, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u61	Mrs. Irina, with great respect to you and to all those who are in this room right now, I want to make it clear that although no one has any objection to this bill, there are no votes in this room because there are no national deputies. The question is simple and complex, at the same time, I want to say that we can continue to pretend that nothing is happening and try to vote, but it will be impossible. There are 100-120 people in the hall. Nevertheless, 344 deputies have been registered. The question to the factions' heads, the question to everyone else, there are no questions. The only thing you can do is take a vote right now, you know, to see how many people are now, and the ratings vote. And then close this session so that we don't embarrass ourselves before the society and people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. The chairman has no right to have the session closed without justification, that's the first. The other one. I hope we have the potential. And the national MPs who are now in the towers may be visiting the exhibition, giving interviews, in the dining room, maybe someone here likes to have breakfast more than at home, they'll be back to vote. We have two more speeches, even three. And I'm asking my colleagues to listen to the speech of the incendiary Borislav Bereza and to return to the session hall in eight minutes when the vote for the ratification of the convention takes place. Now, a word to the People's Deputy of Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I actually believe in the Ukrainian Parliament, and I think we will find voices and potential to adopt this international convention. Little wonder that it is now 18 years old, and since 2002, Ukraine has not yet acceded to this important international instrument. Because it's important to us, to our exporters, that we meet international standards on metrics, my colleagues tell me. And what will this document give us? I would like to remind you that Ukraine will first have the right to vote in the General Conference meetings with measurements and weights, to use the calibration services of national benchmarks, to participate in key beliefs and trusts with international prototypes held by the International Committee of Peace and Weights, will have access to limited sections of the International Bureau of Measurement and Weight, which contain scientific and strategic information. Ukraine will be able to involve scientific metrology experts in the development programs, and this will increase the international cooperation of our nation. So, my fellow Members, I would ask everyone, all the factions, all the MPs and MPs, to support this important document, to vote in favour. And I would like to say that Parliament is ratifying many agreements, including agreements with international financial institutions, but it is important that Parliament and the Ukrainian Government make effective use of all international capabilities and tools, including financial resources, to develop our state. In particular, I would like to remind you that for more than a year our Lithuanian friends have been promoting the European Investment Plan for Ukraine. And we want the Ukrainian government to have a more active position. In particular, a meeting took place yesterday with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Kubi from Ukraine's use of international financial assistance. It's worth noting that work is going in this direction to increase and improve the effectiveness of this aid, and there's an inventory of projects going on. And it's very important for us at the Copenhagen Investment Conference on June 27 to come forward with priority national projects that will be able to raise the costs of international financial institutions and show our ability to absorb these funds and to implement these projects effectively so that there is no abuse or delay. Therefore, honourable colleagues, parliamentary work in this direction is very important. After this convention, I ask the room to mobilize and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u64	Thank you. And I join your faith in the potential of the Ukrainian Parliament. I am also convinced that we will ratify this convention. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to introduce you to the People's Deputies of Krivenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u65	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Since there are 5 minutes in the Rules, I do not think everyone will give up the speeches and we will be able to go to the vote. So I want to believe in the Ukrainian Parliament, but still apologize to the Ukrainian people. Because 93 people voted in favour of the reduced procedure. Of course, we had, well, 10 to 15 minutes at the most. And all the money that's currently being spent on supporting the Supreme Council, this light, this broadcast, this really is a disgraceful situation. I'd like to ask the voters to see who voted in favour of the short-term procedure on this issue, which does not cause discussion in anyone's room. Everyone supports this convention. It's just that for some reason we didn't come to work or vote, and we're wasting your precious time ineffectively. And with regard to the situation, well, it's quite clear that, unfortunately, the government doesn't want to take care of the economy. On the one hand, there is a lack of funds for roads and hospitals. And on the other hand, 2.3 billion dollars are given to large agroholdings by simple government grant decisions, instead of setting clear limits, so that the farm gets help when it builds a calf, when there's a pig farmer building 10 million dollars in one hand, 5 million dollars, which is a huge boost and a huge incentive to give more than 400 companies support instead, are deliberately prescribed conditions that actually limit the possibility of small companies getting support and all the same goes back to agroholding. Last year, one company received 1.2 billion dollars of grants, we have nothing against big agroholdings. Then let's write that it's a big company support program and we're not going to fool people. We see further attacks on the ban on roundwood. We see the customs cover the smuggling, the forest leaves. Our one-party from Zakarpatja, from the Montenegrin region, we send videos, we turn to law enforcement authorities to show how the compositions go to the border, and then in the official report, the European Union shows half a million cubes of imports from Ukraine. This is because we have a total ban. They're taking wood out, they're taking it straight to the black. And, of course, the law enforcement authorities see it all, it sees customs, it's impossible without a direct connection with our tax, which is actually managed by Mr. Groissman. So all of these questions that are happening right now in the State Department, in the Dergeonadares, they show that economic policy, which is talking about big achievements in space, where there's no vision of the future, there's no vision of the future structure of the economy, and there's something that needs to be done about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Last performance, please, Mrs. Natal Wesselov. Colleagues, there's going to be a vote in three minutes, and we have to work together to prove the potential of the Ukrainian Parliament that we do go to work every Wednesday. I ask you to return to the session room. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Hanni Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u68	Please, Mrs. Hopko. I'd like to have a word with you. And I'll give you five minutes as a word from the national deputy and from. closing word from the faction. from the profile committee as a reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Good afternoon, all of our viewers, Ukrainians. I would very much like to see more deputies in the session room right now. Even here we were discussing what kind of bonus would be given to those colleagues who would come to work today, except that they would receive an official salary. How else can we stimulate presence in the hall? One option was to invite the village to see as soon as the potatoes sprouted so that the deputies would work with their hands and were a little closer to the people. Perhaps then they will have much more inspiration in the session room than if they were working in the garden. But as we return to our important bill today, submitted by the President of Ukraine, on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention. Once again, it is extremely important for Ukraine to take advantage of the rights of the member States of the International Bureau of Peace and Weights, because Ukraine, by joining in, will be given the right to vote at the General Conference on Measurements and Weights, to use the services of calibration of national benchmarks, to participate in key atrocities. I mean, I think it's a very progressive step since 2002, which we should have done by now. We also understand very well that Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention is due to Ukraine's implementation of the provisions of the Association Agreement with the European Union, where Ukraine is to fully ensure the participation of relevant national bodies of European and international organisations in standardisation, legislative and fundamental metrology, conformity assessments, including accreditation according to the scope and activities and status of membership in these organizations. Therefore, dear fellow believers, I will not place any emphasis on the importance. We have spoken on a number of occasions today, and the committee is asking for support on the basis and in general the accession of Ukraine to the Metric Convention, which took effect back in 1875. And, colleagues, on occasion, I would like to support my colleague, Ostap Ednak, and say that really the day before the big conference with the support of reforms to take place in Copenhagen, with the support of the Danish government, a similar conference last year was in Britain, and it is very important that the Ukrainian government finally present an investment plan in Ukraine that reflects our national interests and key spheres. It has also increased efficiency and transparency by using the funds that Ukraine has already received since the Dignity Revolution, by making some revisions, greatly improving the use of these funds because of an extremely low sample according to the report of the Court of Auditors. And also, dear colleagues, I hope that after the meeting of the working group, we can, together with our Lithuanian partners, implement the investment plan that we have. I immediately wanted to say that these days, Commissioner Han would be visiting Ukraine. And my personal opinion, and the proposal that was about 50 million euros in support of Ukraine, a contract in exchange for reform, is an extremely meagre proposal. I would like to see the European Union more ambitious with regard to Ukraine, and it is clear that the loans that Ukraine has received for macroeconomic stability do not meet the needs it has. And to urge, in particular, all the countries of the European Union to focus their help on those cities, villages, especially Donetsk and Lugansk areas that are at the front. Take a particular town or village and show from a specific repair of support, as there is an international humanitarian technology to make people feel the support that is there. And I would also like to say, colleagues, that I was on weekends, taking part in the days of Europe in Odessa, also in the megamarchas in Odessa. And so I felt that the central authorities should do more, given that in the Odessa region, one of the lowest levels of support for Ukraine's European and Euro-Atlantic courses. Instead, 52 percent of Odessa’s population is nostalgic because of the collapse of the Soviet Union. This is also the fault of the pro-Russian media, many MPs, unfortunately, are supporters of a certain "Russian world" that represents the Odessa region. And so I think that the issue of national security, Hersonish, Odessa, southern Ukraine, which is extremely sensitive, needs further effort. In particular, from our own, the National Security and Defence Council, taking into account the difficult situation and social sentiments. So I urge everyone to return and vote for the Metric Convention to be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u70	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall right now. Colleagues, please, I saw them leave the hall, take jobs, from the government's bed to return to the hall. My colleagues, I don't think anyone likes it when we go back to the law, so please, colleagues, all factions support. Go back to your seats and ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So, heads of factions, call back and invite MPs who are in the towers. Take up your jobs and return to the hall from your bed, prepare for the vote. So please prepare for the vote. Vladya, tell the boys we're getting there, all right? So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention (0181) as a whole. Colleagues, please vote and please support, this is our international commitment. Please support, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:26:09]] For 205 Not all of them made it. Let's invite you to the hall, I'll repeat it three times when it's necessary to enter the hall. And as I report, I see MPs holding consultations at different parts of the room. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, come into the hall. I'm asking you very much, factions, members of the committee to help the national MPs gather, enter the hall. All factions support, and I'll let you know, I'm asking you to show by factions: the Petra Prashenko Block - 62, the People's Front - 51, the Opposition Block - 17, the Self-Help - 17, the Radical Party - 15, the Fatherland - 9, the Will of the People - 2, the Rebirth Party - 11. So all factions are completely mobilized and supported by this law. I now ask everyone to take part in the vote carefully. I'll put it back on, and then I'll re-establish the law. I very much ask that during the vote everyone be in the workplace and have no consultations. Please prepare, please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention. Please vote carefully and please support the return. Vote. Each voice has a weight. I ask everyone to take part carefully in the vote. Vote for it, please. [[11:27:54]] For 221 They didn't make it, I see. Please take your seats. I can see that they've come to the hall. Please prepare. A few more deputies came along. So we vote, yes, we're ready. Five votes and more than five deputies took place, so I am sure that we will now make our decision. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm putting the vote back on draft Law 0181. Please vote, everyone, please take part in the vote. Let's vote, colleagues, every vote is settled. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Vote for it, please. Let's vote yes. [[11:29:01]] For 222 Four votes, I'll do it again. I see there's two deputies. I'll put them back up. Colleagues, four votes, don't leave the hall. Mr. Anton, don't leave the hall, take part in the vote. Do not leave the hall, fellow workers, and be in the workplace. I see Vadatursky's here. So I'd like you to prepare. I see, yes, Mrs. Mary went to call. So, please prepare, and I'm voting the proposal to return to the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention (0181). I'm asking you to come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Uh-oh! And I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote for the return. Careful, every voice. We're voting for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! Vote. [[11:30:19]] For 218. What's going on? Once again, these are our international obligations. Please come in. I'll put it again, colleagues, and I'm asking for your support. I see who's not voting. Keep it up, fellows. All factions support it. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support it. And I want to remind you, colleagues, I want to remind you: we agreed, we all support ratifications together. We agreed, I'm talking to all colleagues that ratification is the common position of the whole state, the entire parliament. So I ask you to prepare and take part in the vote. I'm proposing to go back to the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Metric Convention (0181), and I'm asking everyone to support it. And please, I remind you, that's what we agreed on. Please vote, please support. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:31:33]] For 225 One voice. We didn't make it, I see. The factions. Everyone sees the factions of the situation. I see, so I'm asking you to go back to 0181. We lacked one vote, and I ask everyone to be there during the vote, so that we don't lose that vote, and I ask you to support the proposal to go back to the draft Law, 0181 and ask everyone to participate in the vote. Please vote and please support. Please support me. Please vote, we'll support. Please vote. We vote for the return, for the return. [[11:32:31]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 0181 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice, don't come out, vote in total 0181. Vote, please. I'd like your support, colleagues. Support me. [[11:33:00]] For 232 The law is passed. Colleagues, after the next draft law, unfortunately, we don't have a decision to make to date by GNEU, so we can't put it to a vote. And then there's the bill of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Medical Education in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] So the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I'm asking you to vote. [[11:34:14]] For 114 The decision is not taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Chief of Security Committee Sisoyenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, we are now in line with the day-to-day approval of parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Medical education in Ukraine: a view to the future." Parliamentary hearings were held in this Parliamentary Hall with 450 representatives from all over Ukraine: experts, directors of higher education institutions in Ukraine. And this happened on March 22, 2017. That is, almost a year after the parliamentary hearings took place and, unfortunately, only now do we approve them. At the same time, however, it is very important that Parliament should determine the main orientations of public policy in the further development of health education. We all know that Parliament has recently passed an important law on higher education in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament has also adopted a number of new laws that are to build a new system, a health system, and a health education issue in the area of health reform are now of vital importance in our country. So on March 22, 2017, the parliamentary hearings held in the Parliamentary Hall set the main priorities for the development of medical education. First. The strategy for reforming the health education system should be clearly established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There should also be a clear definition of human health policy in our country, the creation of a new system of continuous medical education, and the continuous professional development of health professionals. And that's where I'd like to stop. With the beginning of the reform of the health system, with the development of the primary medical care chain, Ukraine must move on to a new philosophy of medical care. 80 percent of the patient’s referrals to medical facilities should take place at the very first level of medical care. So in the area of health education, the state has to primarily ensure a high level of professionals working on the primary chain, namely, family doctors, therapists, pediatricians, and those directly medical workers who participate in the first level of health care. I would also like to point out that there is Bill 6634 in Parliament, which should be voted as soon as possible in this Supreme Council, which should form the work of the first level of health care on the basis of family medicine. Thus, the role and significance of family medicine are becoming increasingly important in our country. The questions of health education, continuous professional development, should ensure a high level of expertise. Since July 1st, we all know what is coming together and will be paid by the State of the Declaration to medical personnel of the first level. And now, directly on first - level doctors, there will be new responsibilities. This is accompanied by pregnancy, much that family doctors have not yet done enough. So the issue of education, continuous professional development, is a new test for our nation. And I think it is up to the government to ensure that this is done at a high level in order for the health reform to really take place in full form, as has been the case in all European and developed nations. I also want to point out that it's very important to have university clinics designed and developed. In the new Higher Education Act, there is a clear definition that medical clinics should be developed in Ukraine, but unfortunately their development is very slow. So, according to the parliamentary hearings, we've defined the government's work as one that needs to be strengthened directly in this direction. Because we all know at what high technological level of new medical technologies new medical advances there are medical clinics all over Europe. The same should happen to us. And once again, it's all about increasing vocational health education. All the suggestions made by those who participated in parliamentary hearings are very clear in the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. Parliamentary hearing recommendations contain a number of requirements for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the adoption of regulations for the implementation of Ukraine's new laws: both the Education Act and the Law on State Financial Guarantees of Medical Services, and the Law on the Autonomization of Medical Institutions. Also, including members of Parliament’s hearings, it is emphasized that the issue of medical education should now include a new, very important and systemic block of work. In fact, our country is completely without understanding the management of the health system. And when medical institutions all over Ukraine are to become non-profit, non-profit, but enterprises, managers of these medical facilities have to play an extremely important role. All this time in Ukraine, the issue of medical management has unfortunately been followed by the principles of medical education alone. And very often the positions of the chief physicians were shaped by the principle of simply being useful representatives of the authorities who appoint the chief physicians and no relation to their competence, they have no professionalism. Thus, under new laws, the issue of health - care providers will be resolved under different conditions. First of all, the new legislation provides for competitions to be held in the positions of health officials and, accordingly, that the new qualifications are to be approved by a decree of the Ministry of Health’s Office. And this is also a requirement included in a parliamentary hearing decision so that not only doctors can lead and manage medical institutions, but primarily economists who have to develop economic instruments, allow medical institutions to compete with each other, improve the quality of medical care, purchase high-tech medical equipment, use each copy of the medical facility effectively. And now economists can do that, and it's very important. Other individuals with a different education may also be in charge of medical institutions. And this is exactly what needs to be formed very clearly in terms of the criteria, in terms of the requirements for health-care managers. It is therefore extremely important that Parliament is finally after a year of parliamentary hearings, but we have come to the approval of the relevant recommendations, but this is only a recommendation from the Supreme Council. Nevertheless, the implementation of the laws adopted by Parliament and the work directly by the Government for the effective implementation of these laws, whether the parliamentary hearings are approved or not approved, is of paramount importance. But the important role of the parliamentary hearing recommendations is that directly a new strategy for the development of health education is being developed directly by professionals, representatives from all over Ukraine, and not just in those government offices, as always. Therefore, we fully support, as the Health Committee, all the suggestions made in this room by 450 members of Parliament’s hearings, and we ask the Hall to vote in favour of these recommendations to become a road map for further work and government, and local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, please stay in the rostrum. I ask my colleagues to sign up for a question to Mrs. Sisoyenko, who presented the draft Ordinance on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the medical subject. Please. Please, Your Honor. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u74	Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Cremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u75	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would very much like to thank the committee and Irina Volodymyrenko directly for the huge number of initiatives that are aimed at promoting and professionalizing higher health education. But as a minimum, it seems to me that we should work more closely with our committees, with the Committee on Education and Science, and as a maximum, we should have a clear and long-term strategy, the interaction of our committees and the direct direction of our activities. It seems to me that in the context of internationalization and education and the increase in the number of foreign students receiving higher medical education in Ukraine, the Ukrainian government should pay the utmost attention to financing, modernization, autonomy of higher education institutions in Ukraine. I have a very simple question for you. Please tell me, is the committee ready today to pay the utmost attention to ensuring that the new academic year in the higher health education system is as good and effective as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the work of the Health Committee with education and the Education Committee is very important. I also want to thank all of the committees and personally to you for the work you're doing to make this work effective. And I'm going to confirm our readiness for further work together. And what I want to point out is that last year, there were new medical specialties that needed to develop effective and quality new educational programs. It's a question of ergotherapists, physical rehabilitation specialists. There is also a government initiative to develop new educational standards and programs for training paramedics. And this is all going to be our next job together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u77	Thank you for your answer. And please, the question of our distinguished colleague, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u78	I'll have a few questions. First. Would you please say, as a percentage, how many graduates are sent directly to medical facilities? I mean those who were educated in universities and separately in technical schools, specifically in colleges. The second question. Please tell me, how much of the needs are funded by medical education? And finally, the third question. How did the history of the struggle between the MOH and the Rector of the Kyiv Medical University end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u79	You know, my dear colleague, I think you may have confused me with a representative of the Ministry of Health. Because both the issue of numbers and financial security are directly within their jurisdiction. I think they'll give you more information. As a Health Committee, we have information that there are 17 higher public institutions in Ukraine for higher health education. It's 12 medical universities, it's an academy, it's a pharmaceutical university, it's one dental academy, it's three postgraduate schools. And each time, every medical facility, when it comes to the Health Committee, forms its own immediate security problems. We do not receive regular reports from the Ministry of Health on financial security. So, I think that if there's such a direct initiative, we can, as national MPs, form a direct request to government representatives on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Please pass the word to the national deputy Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u82	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u83	Dear reporter. Regrettably, we must note that the Cabinet of Ministers generally ignores the Supreme Council's rulings, which approve the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. An analysis of a series of similar recommendations shows that 90 percent are simply not implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers. When we speak of the decree, the parliamentary hearings have been held long enough, and the ruling has been under consideration in the Supreme Council for more than a year. My question. In view of the many changes that have been made to the so - called health reform in this room, do you think that the ruling and the recommendations that are now being made to the Supreme Council are relevant at all, and is the MOH, which ignores the decisions of the Supreme Council, capable of implementing them at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. Questions of relevance. Yes, the Health Committee fully confirms the relevance of those recommendations that were actually made a year ago. But unfortunately, it's just now. Now this decision has come into order in the daytime, and you and I are considering it. That is, Parliament is doing everything possible to do its work of quality and efficiency. But I can also agree that the work of the government and the adoption of new regulations, especially in the form of implementing Ukraine's adopted laws, should take place at the highest and most systematic level.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u85	Thank you. We're done with the interview. Please go to your workplace. And according to the Rules, we don't have a co-rapporteur with regard to the draft regulation, so let's move on to the discussion. I ask the representatives of the MP factions to sign up and express on this block the position of the MP factions regarding our decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the subject of medicine. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich will speak and represent the self-help position. Please. He conveys the same word to Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please turn on Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u86	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. We will fully support and vote in favour of the decree. I would like to point out once again that in the format of the first-level health reform, it is very important to get the government to work as quickly as possible to improve the skills of first-level doctors, family doctors, therapists, pediatricians. It is also very important to pay attention to the education of health - care workers working in rural areas. And we ask the government, in the form of how a network of rural health facilities is now being formed, the family medicine clinics across Ukraine, which are to be built in the format of the Rural Medicine Act, to also point out that not only buildings and walls and new medical equipment are important in terms of improving efficiency and quality of medical care. It is extremely important to learn, to increase the qualifications of those who will work in those new conditions each day, those outpatients, FAPah, PMSD centres, because, as the practice shows, there is still insufficient level of education in order to ensure that the huge workload that will now take place at first-level health workers is indeed at a high level with the safety and quality of the health care provided. So the Self-Help faction supports the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. We also demand the adoption of new laws that are in Parliament -- this is Bill 6634 -- on the first level of family medicine health care, which is to build a direct relationship between first-level and second-level health workers, to provide answers to the patient, how he will then in the form of first-level referrals, how he will further form his relationships with second-level, third-level medical institutions, and with narrow-profile professionals. The issue of the protection of the rights of health workers and the protection of the rights of patients is also shaped by this legislative initiative. So the government must do its work effectively and at the right time, stressing this, and Parliament must continue to adopt a series of important legislative changes aimed at developing an effective health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u87	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to continue our session for 15 minutes so that we can make a decision on the draft decision before the break, because, as our experience at work shows, it's a little more difficult to get together after the break. And now, if you'll excuse me, please give the floor to the national deputy Taras Kremen, who will present the position of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u88	Taras Kremen, People's Front. On the other hand, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Health Committee, not only for the parliamentary hearings and support of medical reform, but also for the systematic work and implementation of new initiatives that greatly expand the development of the Ukrainian medical field. But I would like to highlight the important parameters that have been discussed at parliamentary hearings and those that are most interested in Ukrainian society and our international partners today. The Ministry of Health should, of course, give maximum attention to health education issues in the light of the fact that this is part of their sphere of competence. Unfortunately, there is no close dialogue between our committee, education and science, but I hope that the right conclusions will be drawn. This is also true of the financing model for health education. And this is not just about higher education, but I would like to remind you that the committee is now discussing the issue of vocational higher education, and this is about colleges and technical schools in the health education system, this is about the quality of higher health education, which should be a measure of the effectiveness of financing, investment and administration of state health education. This is a question of internalization of education and, statistically, of 68 foreign students who are now studying left-hand parts in Ukraine are students who are studying in medical specialties. And so it's not just a matter of priority for us, it's not just the importance of our reputation, it's also an international image. The vast number of graduates of Ukrainian Medical Universities from abroad are our ambassadors of the world who promote our medical education. An important fourth ingredient is to improve the qualifications and train specialists. And you can't stop here because this lack of attention can be compensated by a separate whole program that can be approved by the government. An important element is the existence of such important laws as Science and Science and Technology, and the Higher Education Act, which will soon be discussed at our committee meeting. And here, of course, there's no need for medical education. I invite a colleague to discuss it. Military medicine has become important in our country. And so without clear cooperation and interaction with military higher education institutions here, of course, there is no need. An important issue in the context of inclusive learning is the health care and rehabilitation of children with special educational needs. That is why I hope that parliamentary hearings will not only be supported by our Parliament but will also be a good starting point for real educational reform in Ukraine. Thank you to the committee and to Irina Sisoyenko for taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland to present this faction's position on the draft decision under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the question is very important. But in my opinion, there is one question that has been addressed by committee representatives. And here I would like to compare how clearly the Ministry of Education is working on this issue, unlike the Ministry of Health. In fact, we were created in the state during the last 25 years, and if we are brothers and Soviet times, we are almost 60 years old, a monopoly on the preparation of postgraduate medical education. That's what it's called. This monopoly was not simply formed in this way, in fact, by the best institutions, the Academy of Medical Sciences, the professionals who teach at the higher medical institutions are involved in teaching at the Academy of Postgraduate Education for Coins, and this academy rents real money (I can give examples of: the bracelet, the square meter) of the area in the best medical institutions and thus secures a monopoly on this market, virtually eliminated all the possibilities for merging science and education, medical institutions and education that operate around the world. Look at what are universities in the United States that train professionals in the medical field -- really whole hospitals, research institutes. The same story in the countries of the European Union, as well as in many other countries of the world. I believe that the key issue that the committee should ask, without which our faction will not vote in favour of this decision, is to break down this monopoly, which I believe is designed to violate Ukrainian legislation, and to enable the best medical institutions, including the medical institutions of the Academy of Medical Sciences, to train professionals after obtaining a diploma. This will make it legal not only for one institution to make money on this, but it will enable professionals to prepare with practical experience and to create a vertical integrated structure of the medical institution and the postgraduate education facility. I do not believe that this decree has the right to exist without it. Such letters are addressed to the Supreme Council by such important institutions as the Amosova Institute, the Shalimov Institute, and dozens of others who have such a base in which, for a bracelet, think about it, within a square metre, the monopolistic structure of the Academy of Postgraduate Education rents and takes away the premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u91	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u92	I would ask the author who presented this decision to clearly write down the rule on the possibility of licensing, as the Ministry of Education does, the institution for postgraduate education of all institutions that have an appropriate basis and a teaching base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, Mr. Igoru, don't go out to the rostrum. We have been approached by the leaders of several factions that are now to take place and are already agreed upon by the factions. And that's why we're taking a break. I'm sorry, yes, I'm sorry. Yes, two more speakers. And then we'll sign up from the deputies for a discussion that will be after the break. I'm sorry, Mr. Igor. Please come to the rostrum. National MP Igor Mosiychuk is now presenting the radical party's position on the ruling under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u94	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We certainly support the decision that is being discussed because we believe that medical education is necessary as our country for the preparation of appropriate personnel. But speaking of medicine as a whole, I would like to draw attention to at least two conceptual things that are currently bothering our faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. First. There have been several cases in Ukrainian schools of child poisoning with unknown substances. And so far, no one can tell society what these substances are and what was happening. In this regard, our faction insists that Uljana Suprun, the executive minister of health, come to Parliament and explain. Because prescriptions for whom to sit and what to eat can be distributed, and its experts cannot determine what poisons Ukrainian children. And the second. Our faction of the Radical Party and our leader, Oleg Lazko, have drafted a bill to increase criminal responsibility for producing, selling, importing advanced or falsified drugs. The position is very simple: if you commit such a crime and there are no victims -- attempted murder if there are fatalities -- willful murder. And appropriate punishment. And finally, now there's a lot of talk about consultation, about the next being the law on the so-called Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. I've given myself a lot of licenses. I propose that they all be removed and brought in one: to rename the bill from the bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court into a bill on the transfer of Ukraine to external administration. At least it'll be very fair and fair. And in the event of such an adoption, it is suggested that our faction will certainly refer to the Constitutional Court. And finally, the honourable colleagues who were going to vote while they were giving us money, the weapons of the Western partners, I'm going to bring in the words of the great Israelite, Israel's Defense Minister Moshe Diane, who said the following thing: "Our American friends are giving us weapons, money and advice. We take arms and money, and we refuse advice." Let us be guided by the words of wise men who won the wars for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u95	Thank you. And the last statement on this block from the MP factions, please, Igor Shurma will be speaking. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I'm talking to all of the few deputies here who are probably no more than 150. What do you think you're voting for, whether you respect yourself or not? I'm calling on the Supreme Council's leadership. When were the parliamentary hearings? The people of the good people, since April of last year, are in line to consider it in the session room, and its relevance has been lost. And now that it's been introduced, we see that the Presidium has allowed itself to be rudely violated once again by the Ukrainian Rules Act. I want to remind you that on question number two it was 0185 the draft law on denunciation under the authority of the President of Ukraine. What kind of ignorance is that? Why did GNEU not conclude? Why are we jumping? But I'm going back to education now. So there's going to be two big pucks today. The first puck, this is going to be the result of your vote, you see how strong it is. And the second regiment will be the attitude of the Ministry of Health to the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. Do you know why? Look in the government's bed. Who is this from the Ministry of Health? Well? Uh, where are you? The Ministry of Health, which wants to implement recommendations on reforming the medical education system in Ukraine. That's the first one. And the others. And who will reform it if there is virtually no one there? We have a postgraduate minister, no higher education. We have deputy ministers with linguists. Before that, there were historians, lawyers, whatever you want. And counselors today with accounting education. Who is there to talk about reform today? As for those who work in prisons, the same medical authorities have completed the same bonds and have given them education, and they consider themselves to be good professionals. So they should probably think they're reforming. The parliamentary decree states: Let us prepare a strategy, a concept, and a human resources policy strategy. Is it? She's gone. There's someone here, I'm sorry for the rude expression, the spit about the primary line. Rather, we would say how many family doctors we have today rather than 26 - 17,000. What time would that be? And for two years, the decision lies under the dress. Is she going to work? It won't. They're talking online. We're talking about education, and we need to fill out the network. So I'm going to remind you that no one is forming the network today, it's formed. And in article 49 of the Constitution, it can neither be reduced nor eliminated. So what's going on is the ratio of you, the coalition, the power, health reform, to education. As you consider the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, so will the outcome. Instead of being here, the minister threw himself into Geneva. The topic is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of a draft decision that is, in any case, relevant. Because these are parliamentary hearings and according to the Rules there should be recommendations to be voted on in the Hall. Medical reform and the medical situation are more relevant than ever. Therefore, these recommendations are important. I join in the position of those national MPs who require the presence of representatives of the Parliament's Ministry of Profiles during the debate, whether it's the drafts or the rulings on the subject of these ministries. And we call on the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide information on why there are currently no representatives of the Ministry of Public Health in Parliament during the discussion. What's more, these recommendations really have to be implemented by both parliament and ministries. And we very much ask the honourable government, considering that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, not to forget this, to be in constant contact with Parliament, and to cooperate very closely, both in the drafting of the bills and in their deliberations. We are confident that we will have a successful vote on these draft rulings, but after the break. I'm asking the MPs to sign up for a discussion by the deputies. But to this block we'll be with you in 30 minutes, after the break. Please sign up. So I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And after the break, I ask all the deputies responsible to meet in the hall. We will also have Mr. Igor Shurma, and the national deputy Martovicki, Medunica, Borislav Bereza. And then we're going to go to the vote. Thank you, colleagues. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the time is up for recess. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for further discussion. Please take your seats, come into the hall. So we're moving on to the final stage of the decision-making process -- these are speeches from the national MPs. Nine minutes is available for speeches by national deputies, and I now invite you to the words of Shurma Igor Mihajlovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u99	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'll do it first. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you know that there is no greater lobbyist in Parliament, like Igor Shurma. But I have to tell you under the transcript. I would like to say to you that just now, the National MP Papiev has personally given you a request for an end to the violations of Ukraine's Pro-Rule Act, which requires immediate correction of the violations found, namely to return to the 0185 bill. Otherwise, we have no choice but to view it as an abuse of duty. Please understand that we are acting exclusively by law and nothing personal. And now, in fact, it's a matter of fact. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank Irina Heratchenko for her ability to mobilize the Ministry of Health, and today there is a deputy minister present. That's how little hope I have for that deputy's presence, because I was a direct participant in parliamentary hearings, and three hours, three hours, this person who took part in the hearing didn't get away from the smartphone. He's doing the same thing now. Therefore, there is no hope that there will be a reaction. But I'll tell you one more thing. When a law was passed in this session hall that liberated graduates of higher education institutions from three years of government education, we then raised questions, the state is actually blowing up tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars to train young professionals, and later those young professionals are not going in the direction. In fact, we prepare footage, there to work in district centers, in district centres at least, or abroad. Under such circumstances, the reform of health education would not be solely for the Ministry of Health but for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a system of crediting students to higher education institutions. If a student has the right to choose a profession and find a place to work, he has to pay the money for it, the Ministry won't. Moreover, there were a number of arrangements. You know, I'm very jealous of the doctors that they don't have their own minister of health like Greenevich, and they don't have the same synchronous work as the committee and the Ministry of Education. Because today, in order to introduce even the decision of this bill on free choice of professions, the Ministry has done nothing to implement this law. And so today, the ministry can easily understand that they will not have to follow through on their recommendations. Look in the hall, how many people. This is a disgrace to Parliament and this is your attitude toward health. And in order to vote needlessly, it is simply irrelevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u100	Thank you. Martovic Arthur Volodymyrovich conveys the word Yuri Pavlenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! First of all, despite the fact that a representative of the Ministry of Health has appeared, I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Paruba, to contact the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, to comment on the leadership of the Ministry of Health on ignoring the work of the Parliament of the higher legislative body and the systematic disregard of the leadership of the MoH to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that the Cabinet of Ministers should respond to such actions by the heads of the Ministry. Secondly, the issue of the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of parliamentary decisions on parliamentary hearing recommendations remains extremely relevant. Recently, on the Family, Youth, and Sports Committee, we analyze one of the decisions that has been made to recommend hearings about the protection and protection of children’s rights. The analysis showed that 90 percent of this ruling was not implemented by specific ministries in a year, starting with the Ministry of Social Policy, which is the central executive body for the protection and protection of children’s rights, and including other ministries attached to this decision. That is why I would ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to give the mandate and to examine in detail every decision that has been adopted on parliamentary hearings, because this is how the concept of parliamentary hearings and of those interventions, particularly those of public organisations, and the public about the current problems that are in this area. With regard to the subject matter of the decision, it is no doubt vital. In particular, my meetings in the Gitomir region in various areas show a serious shortage of doctors in the rural area, with about 5,000 doctors for over 13 million rural people. If you even count the standard of 2,000 people offered by the Ministry of Health, here you are. And there's not enough for one and a half thousand doctors. In the Gitomir region, this situation is much worse, there are a huge number of settlements that are now simply deprived of basic medical care. In addition, a large part are people of retirement age. Another topic that is relevant and important is the training of rehabilitators, including to rehabilitate children who have been affected by military action and armed conflict. In two years the Ministry of Health has not done anything in terms of assistance to children who have suffered from war. Moreover, all working group meetings initiated by the Ministry of Social Policy have been ignored during these two years by the Ministry of Health. That's why I don't think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u102	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u103	I believe that this is not the decision that needs to be considered and voted today, but the decision on responsibility for the management of the Ministry of Health and the discharge of the executives concerned. Pseud chiefs from the post.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u104	Colleagues and closing remarks. Oleg's Medina. And I ask you all to come into the hall, and in three minutes, there will be a vote. Final statement, and after that we're going to the vote, please all come into the hall. Please, Oleg. Turn on Oleg's Medphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Oksani Korczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u106	From the rostrum, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u107	Praise Jesus Christ! The national MP, Mr. Medunice, is very grateful for the word delivered. We have a lot of white spots with you in medical education, which we need to overcome with real reform, including the mismatches now or the different tracts of education that we have in the Ministry of Defence and in our common system. Bachelor, according to our new laws, this is higher education. Sadly, however, until the Ministry of Defence decrees of 2008, this education is still considered to be completed. In this regard, our schedules — the boys who went on duty — serve not one year as bachelors, but 1.5 years. And I'm asking the Ministry of Health, now the deputy minister and deputy. The prime minister's deputy ministers are present at both ministries, bringing exactly one match. Because it can't be that in the civilian sector, we have a bachelor's degree, and in the Ministry of Defence, in the military, it's incomplete, and boys have to learn and serve on the only algorithm. Dear colleagues, we have a war going on, and all of us frontalists have a dream that every session we meet with you will honor the memory of our fighters, our heroes who gave their lives for our Ukraine. This month, we lost our brother, Bokach Oleg, on the front line in Audiowka. He was only 23 years old. We lost our brother, who was badly injured in his time, from the 93rd Brigade of Sergio Gunder. We lost the Special Intelligence Commander of the Donbas battalion, then the intelligence commander of the 16th Battalion of the 58th Brigade, the 24th Brigade, this is the great man of Vladimir Maybeard, everyone on the front known as the May. And unfortunately, two other outstanding heroes died two days ago. The intelligence commander who turned Vladimir "Maya" into Andrew Maslov. Before the war, he was a professional football player, his invited football player. He played in the league, but when the enemy attacked our Motherland, he left everything, he left the little child, he left for 10 days. The last time he saw his family for a moment, he went to the front and died on the most dangerous area. He died, and also died our wounded in Audiewka Kutzmay Slava, who was still in the hospital seven months ago, returned to his brothers and died together. I ask you to honor the moment of silence, a moment of respect for the true heroes of our country who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, one minute, the final word from the committee, Irina Sisoyenko. And please invite everyone into the hall. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, medical personnel are the main strategic capital of the entire health system. So the issue of education, continuous professional medical education, is a guarantee of high quality medical care. I ask you to support the Supreme Council's decision; it is a coworker with representatives of the Ministry of Health. And I would also like to support the initiative that our colleague has outlined, and that we should vote to add to the parliamentary hearing the proposal of Sergio Soboljeva of the "Fatherland" faction to that, too, that this amendment enters into the final text of the parliamentary hearing recommendations. And I ask you all to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll put up with this paper. And I'd like to pay attention to everyone, colleagues. Draft Parliamentary Hearing Orders can be postponed. If we don't have a compromise right now and there are no votes, we can move through the Rules any day of the next week. So if we don't find a compromise even now, the Rules will allow us to consider it soon. Do you have a deal, colleagues? So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on Medical Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future (6467). And I'm voting on the committee's proposal to accept as a whole the amendment that Sergio Sobolev made under the transcript. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[12:58:04]] For 116 The decision is not taken. We'll be looking for compromise. You'll pass the verdict, I think it'll be easy for you, for the committee. And we'll be able to look at it at a time when we find compromise in all positions. But we were able to talk today about the state of medicine. I think this is the right contribution to the development of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. What question is the next order of the day? The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine (7440). And we're going to look at this bill. And I invite the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. But, colleagues, before I give the floor to the committee head, I will inform you of the progress of the debate. So in our consultation with the experts of the Venice Commission, we were able to reconcile 13 of the 14 recommendations. This is an important step forward, but unfortunately we haven't been able to fix all the adjustments. What formula we agreed with the committee head. Attention! That, in a position where there is no reconciliation today, the committee has made a decision for the court’s judgment, for the judgment of the hall. And I have a proposal for all the national MPs that we should consider these positions, which are at the discretion of the Chamber, before the vote. So that we can get through all the agreed positions first and have the opportunity and the time to agree on the bill. I remind you, 1925, and after I was corrected by the head of the committee, 27 rights. Obviously, today we will only be able to begin the discussion. We'll have the main job tomorrow. And obviously, we're going to have a difficult discussion. We will be able to have discussions with our colleagues from the Venice Commission and today, during the consideration of this law. But the main position is to leave those who are unagreed at the last stage of the discussion. I would also like to remind you that the entire apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked. This morning, tables were produced and distributed to the national deputies. Now you have the ability to track these tables and work on them. I'm just going to ask the head of the committee to call the papers, call those amendments that are agreed upon. And where there is a conclusion, for the consideration of the Supreme Council, leave it to the final stage. In fact, all of these are related to one topic: the mandate of the Public Council of International Experts. It's going to be a separate topic. And I think we can find consensus on it. Dear fellow national MPs, we are being watched by all of Ukraine. And for many Ukrainian citizens, this question has become a symbolic and important question. Today, the Supreme Council is in the spotlight of both Ukraine and many of our international partners. And I believe, I'm sure we can find an understanding. We can make a positive decision, but we need to have a professional, professional discussion in the hall. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I, in principle, fully support what you said. I don't think there's any point in retelling him in the absence of time. I'm just going to say that those rights that are considered by the committee are the common position of the committee and the Venice Commission. We've done multiple rounds of negotiations with them, and we've agreed that this is the position of our committee that we only take into account those adjustments and only those positions that are agreed upon jointly with the Venice Commission. So I ask my colleagues not to take offense to those whose rights are unaccounted for or partially accounted for, because any of their accounting means that we bring into the body of the law a norm that is not agreed upon, but, therefore, we need to start a renegotiation round of these norms in order to avoid this discussion, we are only proposing a way out of the situation. And I'm going to continue by the body of the law to inform you what exactly is, what is the specific norm in which the formulation of the agreed position is reflected in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u112	Thank you. So let's move on to the right-hand side. Please prepare yourself for the discussion. And I want to remind you that a lot of the lines are rejected just because we found the agreed position. And I also want to remind you, the law itself is not that big -- on 19 pages. And so I ask that during the discussion take into account the agreed position that the committee found as a result of the hard work. During the committee, the secretary of the Venice Commission was present so that we could support the hall as a generally agreed position. So number one is negative. Solovay, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u113	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. You know, in Ukraine they say the ship's name, so it's going to swim. The law is called the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, but it is stipulated by law that only the first appeal institution is created. The case will be conducted by the Supreme Court, I understand, within the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. Accordingly, the Supreme Administrative Court Act does not have a higher office. So it would be logical to call this law, as proposed by the 1st Amendment, the Anti-Corruption Court Act, because this law does not provide for the creation of a higher institution. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, this is the 1st amendment. Actually, it's over there. Yes. I'm explaining this room. Dear colleagues, indeed, I very much ask the people's deputies to go according to the rules. And either this should be your amendment, or if you put it on confirmation, then you can make any amendment. The first amendment was rejected. This is the national deputy of Vlasenko and Timoshenko. It was rejected and it refers to the title of the bill. Mr. Solovay took the floor, and he sounded that position, although he was not the author. I'm going to put this to a vote. And I also want to point out that a lot of amendments, they're identical and they apply to the name, the name itself. Dear Mr. Knazevitch, as chairman of the committee, you will give your position by 1 amendment and another by this block regarding the name. Because, as you know, and I'm informing my colleagues, there's a dozen amendments to the name. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u115	I'd like to ask your colleagues, if you don't mind, not to touch the title of the bill, because, first of all, it comes out of the constitutional changes that were adopted in 16 years and the Suicidal Act, and second of all, it's clearly agreed. And accordingly, if we're going to change even in this part now, if we're going to change some basic minor changes, I wouldn't want to say that, even starting with the name, we had to renegotiate these things. It doesn't matter. The point is that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in a title that is reflected in those legislative acts that we have already adopted should be accepted. If we don't, we need to change those laws first, starting with the changes to the Constitution when we started, in order to change the name of the law now. Let's make these adjustments, I know, I don't even know how to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u116	Thus, the committee chairman explained why the amendments to the law’s name were rejected. Mr. Jury, you don't insist, you've expressed your position, which you think would describe more precisely the name of the court. But after clarification, you do not insist. All changes concerning names have been rejected. I'm just asking the deputies who are present and who are the authors, to raise their hand, someone has an insistence? Yes, there is, that's all. All right, then. Then we have an amendment for the name, the 9th. This is the amendment of the national deputy Lewchenk, Illenka, Osuhovsky. To whom shall I give my word, fellow workers? Andrew Illenka. Please, Mr. Andrey. Guys, we're on the 9th. If there's any other comments before 9:00, then you'll know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u117	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. We propose this amendment in the text of the bill to replace the word "superqualification commission" with the word "competition commission." This amendment, it's technical, but it basically reflects our vision that it's necessary to use and create an appropriate commission instead of the CDC, which would be, in fact, independent, which would involve maximum public participation. Because, as we've seen in the corresponding contests that we've seen before, the CDC shows itself not on the best of terms, and very many of the odous figures that had, for example, judged the courtmen, who were questions about their virtues and so on, they held appropriate competitions. To avoid the same situation, we suggest that we support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u118	Please comment to the committee head. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u119	I think, Mr. Andrey, it's even worse if we immediately face the unconstitutionality of this law. Because you know that there is a special constitutional body that, according to the Law on the Judiciary, makes qualified assessments of judges. So another way to make qualified assessments is to immediately kick the law itself. I don't think it's even necessary to discuss it where it's obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u120	Mr. Andrew, have you been satisfied with your explanation? No, it's not. Both Andrew Illenko and Yuri Lewchenko, as the authors of the 9 amendments, insist on voting. Colleagues, please report for 9 corrections. The committee rejected it, the authors insisted. [[13:08:31]] For-28 Your amendment is being rejected. The 11th Amendment of Natalia Agaphony is taken into account in an editorial way. Don't you insist, Mrs. Natalia? Okay. I'm looking who's here with the amendment authors in the room, and I'm going to call you. 25 Amendment, Sobolev Yegor. 13th? Now. Yes. If I haven't seen anyone, I'm very sorry. 13th Amendment, People's Deputy Lazko and Kuprienko. Please turn on Mr. Cooper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine, who are now watching and listening. Shame and shame. Shame and shame. These two feelings are overwhelming me right now. When a person who, in the absence of the President, is to rule the state, I mean the Head of the Supreme Council, he says that we agreed there with the Venice Commission, there's someone else there, so please don't do anything here, because it won't work. So maybe let's dissolve the Supreme Council or close the castle and let's say the Venice Commission, the IMF is writing laws, and they're going to work, and we don't need you here. And my amendment is about that, and let me finish for 30 seconds, this is the law, the attention, the anti-corruption court, not the creation of it. And a vivid example of this is the last sentence of this law, which says the presidential law, where it is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u122	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u123	It says here that the President himself advises to submit another bill on the establishment of this court. So my amendment is that we don't bother people's heads, if we want to create, let's write the word in this law to create, to create this court, and we're not going to take and pass the procedure again, to adopt the Law on the Establishment of this Court once more. I insist on correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u124	Please take the position of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, this is just like the previous amendment, which clearly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. You know, there's a special order defined by the Constitution about the creation of courts. Now, according to the Constitution, such a creation is possible by a separate law, which the President of Ukraine is required to introduce in a prior agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice. It's a special autonomous process that should be after we adopt the law. Now, if we deliberately, let's say, immediately on the march, question the constitutionality of the adoption of this law, it seems to me that there is no further point in considering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u126	Thank you for your clarification. Mr. Kuprienka, are you insisting on your correction? Okay. I put to the vote the amendment of 13 people's deputies Kuprienka and Lašek. The committee clarified the position that another law would be needed to ensure that this procedure did not conflict with the Constitution. Please make up your mind about the amendment. The committee turned her down. [[13:11:59]] For-30 30 votes in favour of the amendment, she declines. Again, colleagues, if I haven't named someone, it's not my bad intentions, it means I might not have noticed and I'm just asking you to raise your hand, we'll go back and move on. The next 25 amendments, and it's going to represent, this is a self-help team, represented by a respected colleague of Semimenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u127	Semenha Roman. It's the Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, our bill relates to the terms and acceleration of the launch of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Obviously, this needs to be done as quickly as possible, including from an economic point of view, in order to avoid a potential financial and economic crisis. By the way, even a memorandum from the IMF signed by the government in the 17th year suggests that such a court should be launched no later than March 2018. However, the draft law provides for unwarranted long deadlines for running it and overloading it with additional procedures. In addition, it will be formed within 12 months of the date on which the law takes effect, in addition to determining the decision of the congregations of that court if at least 35 judges are appointed. It does not set any deadlines during which it will be introduced, and the standard is actually a declaratory recommendation, nor does it oblige the President as the initiator to draft a bill on the creation of a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And so the question of his beginning of work also depends on the will of one person. We're proposing that our rights should speed up the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u128	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u129	Therefore, the Self-Help faction suggests that the launch process of the High Anti-Corruption Court be substantially accelerated to minimize the delay, particularly the President of the country, and to create a Higher Anti-Corruption Court by this very law. We are convinced that this will actually enable such a court to be brought up in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u130	Please explain the identity committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u131	Well, the same explanations I just made. Previous amendment. In fact, they are similar. If possible, requests for unconstitutional things in the law do not support this in order not to deliberately lay mines there, which will then challenge the creation of the court itself. That would be a huge mistake. I would ask to refrain from making such amendments to the people’s deputies, and they realize that they are causing a major problem. I don't know what it's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u132	Thank you for your clarification. Of course, our voting with you in favour of the bill will speed up the establishment of an anti-corruption court. And that's why it's important that we all get to work. We're moving on to 25 of the copyright team. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we are now voting on the amendment we have announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Mikhailo, can you hear me as presiding? Now we're looking at a specific amendment to the 25th. We vote it, then we go to yours for confirmation. I can't stop the discussion. There's an insistence on the copyright team that we're voting on Amendment 25 right now, and it's rejected. I'm asking you to identify a 25-seat session room as a group amendment. From the Self-Help faction. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:15:31]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. Mr. Papiev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I have a request, because I raise my hand, yes, when you have passed the 11th amendment, which is edited, I would still ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to pay attention in general to the essence of this law. It's a law that violates the Constitution of Ukraine, it's a law that introduces the external administration of our state. And I would like to remind all the Ukrainian national MPs that we've all taken an oath to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, don't violate the oath of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and let's still mention the 1st article of the Constitution, which clearly states that Ukraine is a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, legal state, to abide by the law and ask for 11 amendments to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u134	It's taken into account editorially, this amendment. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u135	Well, I realize that there's a desire to review now all the arrangements that were with the Venice Commission, that's one of the arrangements, because really, they've turned our attention to the relevance and foresight in the preamble of the law right now about the specifics of the competition, including our colleague's making a similar amendment that we've taken into account. If you put it now and it won't be confirmed, the first reading will remain. Well, that's what it's going to be like, so we're going to have to have another discussion with the Venice Commission on this part. Why is this being done? Well, here's the political question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u136	Mr. Mikhailo, are you recording your request? No, it's not. I'm asking Michael Papiev to confirm the 11th amendment, which was taken into account editorially. I remind you that the committee has taken it into account, and the committee is asking us to support the committee's decision. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u137	Please be supportive. [[13:17:46]] Z-71
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u138	The amendment is not counted. We've been to Amendment 25 before, and now I'm looking for where we're going. Mrs. Yuzkova, 30 corrections. Don't you insist? 27th, please, Fish. Please, microphone to the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, when we voted, our faction, in the first reading of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, we hoped that the rights and positions of the Radical Party faction would be taken into account. Unfortunately, on the basis of the committee we were unable to protect our rights, I, as a national MP, am personal. And it's a shame that we don't have a discussion about that today. If it comes to the 27th trial, then I suggested that the anti-corruption court be set up for exactly five years, so that in five years we could take the risk that this court did well and that it did a push to fight corruption, and Parliament decided whether to continue the term, whether we all have anti-corruption and all fair and transparent courts in our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u140	I understand the correction. Please proceed to the 27th Amendment of the People's Deputy's Fishery. The committee turned her down. [[13:19:19:19]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. Next 30. Mrs. Yusak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u141	Thank you. Tetjana Yuzkov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. My amendment is to exclude from article 1 of the law a part of the second which defines that "the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is a legal person and has a separate seal with the image of the State Herb and its appointment," what is it about? The bill stipulated that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court would deal with cases at the first instance and have an appeal chamber, which would seem to be separate and independent. We suggested that there should be two courts in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court: the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal. So I ask my colleagues to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u142	Thank you for your clarification. Please proceed to the 30th amendment of the Southern People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. [[13:20:41]] For-34 34 votes in favour, the amendment is rejected. The next 50th amendment, if I'm not mistaken. Among the authors present is a team of self-help deputies, and I understand there will also be a national MP. Ah, 50th counted. And you told me so, that's all. We made a mistake, all right? It was our lack of work together. I'd like to emphasize that 50 revisions have been taken into account. I'm sorry, colleagues. We're moving on. 69 amendments are also included. Sixty what? 61st. Now, I'll get back to her. 61st National Deputy Savrasov. She did. Mr. Yuri, this is the national deputy of Saurasov, and you're confirmed. This is the amendment of the national MP Saurasov, which is considered partly by the committee. People's MP Lewchenko requires a word of confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u143	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I wanted to put two on confirmation -- 61st and 62nd. They're both partially accounted for, and they're proposing to add, in the end, to the function of the court of enforcement of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in criminal conduct. I think the court should do it anyway, actually, and so clearly, these are the constitutional functions of the court. I don't think the description of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should be separate, but that it has a very strong need to protect the rights of corrupters, which it will, in fact, judge. But in addition, I would like to point out by procedure what is an absurd situation when we are considering the Anti-Corruption Act, the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, and it is being considered as a violation of Ukrainian legislation. That is, in violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which clearly states, article 117 of the Rules that this second reading table should be distributed to the deputies 10 days before due consideration. Thus, it is very interesting that the Supreme Council, when considering the issue of an anti-corruption court, violates the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's very much what we're dealing with very much with corruption, ourselves, in fact, by dealing with corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u144	Please, I give the floor now to the head of the profiling committee, which will give the position of 72, by 71 amendments. 71 and a half. I'm sorry, colleagues, I made a mistake. 61 and 62 amendments, which were partially taken into account. And now their MP Lewchenko is asking for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u145	If possible, on behalf of the committee, I would like to contact our colleague Yuri Lewchenk not to insist. Since this formulation for the protection of human rights and the citizen required the Venice Commission, it brought this law into line with the Statute of the Council of Europe and the Statute of the European Court of Human Rights. To ensure that there is no problem for those who, let us say, feel that this court has wrongly condemned them, they will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. And it's only because of this formal sign that you're opening a lasagna for many corrupts. So I'm asking you, you probably don't get the point of this amendment, but it's too important. If you're doing this knowingly, it's your position, it's just to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u146	Mr. Yuri, you've heard the explanation. Are you insisting? No, it's a discussion. Well, you just blamed the committee, too. You'll answer in the towers. I'm asking you to make a request, then yours, then yours, and I'm asking you to make an amendment to the 61st amendment upon the request of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee counted it, and now the committee is asking for support. Because the collapse of this amendment balances Ukrainian legislation with international law. Please make up your mind. The committee's asking for support. [[13:24:53]] For-65 65 votes, amendment not yet supported. But I think when we get to the final discussion, we'll discuss it. 62 amendment, this is the authorship of Mrs. Agafone, the deputy of Natalia Agaphonova. It was partially accounted for. Mrs. Natalia, I now give my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u147	Colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. In fact, the head of the committee pointed to the basic position, which was the subject of the amendment. But I want to speak to Mr. Lewchenk. Before we leave. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, no person is found guilty under the presumption of innocence. So it's unconstitutional to blame a person and to reject the status of protection of his rights and freedoms. So I'm asking you to support this amendment and not make similar anti-constitutional amendments for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u148	Thank you. Your name was mentioned in the context of the author’s request for confirmation. And now it's not about the name, Mr. Jury, but it's about to be discussed with the amendment. I'm going by the book. Thus, the national deputy Levchenko, who is not the author of this amendment, asked 62 amendments to be made for confirmation. The committee counted it in part. The chairman of the committee and the author of the amendment request that the position of the committee be taken into account and supported, voted in favour of the amendment. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:26:31]] For-64 64 votes for. The amendment is rejected in such a way that it is still an option. Next 73, if I'm not mistaken. National MP Kuprienko. And then he raises his hand, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. I'll give you my word. Please, 73 revisions, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u149	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. My amendment refers to article 3, where the tasks of the anticorruption court are defined. The proposal instead of the word "law" is to write "legislative," because it's not only by law, but also by the Criminal Procedure Code. This is going to be a more correct formulation. Keep going. It says, "and the crimes associated with them." I mean, if a person is killed and told that she probably wanted to bribe someone. Is this a related crime? And in order for there to be no double reading, I propose that the words "and related to them" be deleted from the text. And then everything will be right. The jurisdiction is governed by legislation and there is no related crime, no room for any manipulation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u150	Thank you. So the National MP, Kuprienko, is asking for support for amendment 73. It was rejected by the committee, and the authors believe that this formulation will be more lexically defined with regard to legislation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:08]] For-31 The 31st National MP supported your amendment. It's deflecting. Please turn on the microphone to the Lithuanian national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u151	Dear Chairman, I am formally referring to Amendment 70. But I will ask you not to put her to the vote. I'm talking about the fact that this law is principled and important. And here the MPs rightly pointed out that it would take time to get to know him. So let us not show loyalty to one another; at least by tomorrow let the deputies wrap up this document and see what we are going through. Otherwise, out of formal circumstances, 45 deputies will address the Constitutional Court, and he will make the appropriate decision, all the more so as the precedent has already been created. Why are there 50-70 deputies here, and we're playing games in front of each other about what we're looking at here? Well, let's read it, at least see what we're getting out of, what's the position of the MP Corps. Otherwise it's obviously unnecessary. So I suggest, let's stop the formal process now. Let the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u152	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u153	In order for deputies who are interested in this document to have an appropriate level of condition to be able to get to know it. I can't take a look at all the corrections during this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u154	The position is clear. First of all, I thank you very much for your comments on our work. I want to point out that the opposite is what we do in terms of amendments. I accept your comments and appeal to the secretariat. No, it's not. Colleagues, I take the view that all deputies should have on their hands the amendments they are interested in. I'm going to the secretariat, now I'm going to hand out the amendments to the MPs who want them, and they're on the site. Well, who's comfortable with paper work, please. They're on the Supreme Council site, they've been up there a long time. So please also use electronic media. And this part, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, of your remarks and Mr. Levchenk, I take it. And I don't think that we have a sub-item, and we're going to go to the repairs, and I'm just saying that as a result of these discussions, sometimes there's a last name. But these are not offensive stories, only in the context of discussion. We're still moving in with you. 70th Litwin just put it on the stand and said we weren't voting. We're moving on. All right, Yuri Lewchenko insists that he wants to put her on the stand. Please, colleagues, I ask you to be determined and upon the request of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and upon the request of Mr. Levchenk Yuri, on the confirmation of the 70 amendments, her committee has taken an editorial opinion. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:27]] For-51 51 votes for as long as this amendment is rejected. We're moving on. Borislav Bereza does not insist. Is he insisting? 89 amendment, Bereza People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court has to deal with cases of purely top-corruption. If we want to bring this court down, let him deal with any corruption: corruption in hospitals, corruption in Jacks, petty corruption, it's also corruption. So I propose to add to the first part of article 4 the words "crimes attributed to its jurisdiction (subordination) by procedural law" to "corruption crimes attributed by law to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau." And that's why this court should be dismantled so that other cases can't block his work. Thank you. And I will be grateful for the support of this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u156	Please, the position of the committee will be commented on by the head. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u157	I want to say that this position is taken into account where it should be included, in the changes in the Criminal Procedure Code and in the Criminal Code. And now, really, after that, if we support this position, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will continue to be his defendant, only those cases that are being investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. To prescribe it where it's not necessary, in order for someone, let's say so, to start criticizing us or to accuse us of this position, I think it's unnecessary. It is correctly spelled out in the changes in criminal law and the Criminal Code. Please, let's not break deals in this part. They're reached, finally reached with the Venice Commission, all the sides of it. There is agreement on its support. And now any change will balance the deal. Come on. In this law it is further included in the Transitional Positions, where it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Borislav! Dear Mr. Borislave, the committee explained that your amendment was simply included in another part. You insist on voting. Are you insisting or not? He insists. Please, Mr. Borislav requires that his amendment be taken into account in this part of the law. Please vote for the 89th amendment. The committee turned her down. I refused to explain that this novel was included in the Final Positions. [[13:34:12]] For-27 27 votes were in favour of your amendment. It's deflecting. The next 100 amendments are the authors of many self-help deputies. Please turn on Mrs. Ostrick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u159	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. This amendment also suggests that it be defined at the level of the law, right in the body of the law, to point out in which cases the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court executes justice as the court of the first and appeal institutions in criminal conduct. These are just the crimes that the practical investigation of article 216 of KPC is carried out by NABU, which is a requirement of the Venice Commission. And these are also crimes committed by NABA officials, SAP prosecutors, and which are referred to by 216 articles as being the subject of the DBR. This amendment is made for the purpose of making it very clear, right in the body of the law, to prescribe and comply with the requirement of the Venice Commission. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u160	Please determine the substance of the amendment. The committee turned her down. [[13:35:24]] For-46 This amendment of MPs is being rejected from Self-Help, because it only gets 46 votes. Next: 101, Yuzkov People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? Please, it's Mrs. Aunty Yuzkowa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u161	I'm asking you, I want to go back and talk to my colleagues, and support my position that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court cannot exist as a court of first instance that has an appeal chamber in its composition. There is no such practice in any country of the world, and there seems to be some experience in Ukraine. So I propose and ask my colleagues to exclude in the first part of article 4 after the word "justice" of the term "as the court of the first and appeal." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u162	So, colleagues, we define 101 amendments. According to the author, it is of a technical nature. The committee rejected it, and I'm asking you to make 101 adjustments. What? Okay. I'm sorry, we'll do it next time. The committee, when it raises its hand that they want to express their position, we always give our word. Mr. Kuprienka, I heard you too. Don't worry. We'll go with the committee, too. [[13:36:41]] For-25 25 votes in favour, the amendment is rejected. The next 141 amendments, this is also the National Deputy of the South. Mrs. Tetjana Yuzkov, 141. Now. If we've missed one of the authors who's in the room to 141 revisions, of course, I'll see you right away, count, and we'll listen. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u163	Unfortunately, I understand that these amendments are now strictly technical in nature, because the number of deputies in the room does not allow them to prove their position. And 141 amendments, and 142 amendments, are about bringing this law to the principles that exist in our Ukrainian justice system. When the first instance of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is separate, and the separate Court of Appeal of the High Anti-Corruption Court. So I insist and I ask my colleagues, I know that many of them will support this principled position, to support my amendment 141. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u164	It was a request for a colleague of Mrs. Yuszkowa and Mr. Kuprienka to hear the committee's position. Mr. Knazevitch, please comment. And, if I may, it's 141th and 142nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u165	I'm going to try to make a general comment because Mrs. Tetjana, she's taking away such a conceptual problem that I think she's just solved in the first-reading vote. And that's why the committee has not been able to somehow change the concept of the law. What is it? The point is that it proposes to create not one, but two courts are an anti-corruption court and an appeal anti-corruption court. You understand what this means that we would actually have to start this process from the very beginning and re-write the law. We left the position, including the Venice Commission, which was very critical of the idea of any institution during the anti-corruption court, and that's why they took out the institution inside the court, and creating any chambers or general courts, or specialized courts. So this concept, which was in the first reading, is supported by us and supported by the Venice Commission. If the session room now fits into a different concept, well, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u166	An explanation has been received. Please, colleagues, we are voting on Mrs. Yuskov 141's request for an amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. I remind you that the committee rejected her. This is Mrs. Yuskov's 141th amendment, and the committee rejected it. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:43]] For-28 28 votes in favour of your amendment, she declines. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, just a minute. 142 revisions. Mrs. Yuzkova had already shut her down during the discussion. Are you coming back? Do you want to give the microphone now or do you want to vote now? Microphone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u167	I don't think we can agree with the committee's view in that part that Parliament has already voted in favour of this concept in the first reading, because the rights do not change the fact that the Higher Anti-Corruption Court is created, which functions in the composition of the Court of First Instance of the High Anti-Corruption Court, as well as the Court of Appeal of the High Anti-Corruption Court. This is more understandable, and this structure that I think will create the greatest confidence in society. So I ask my colleagues to support my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u168	Thank you. I would like to point out that the chairman of the committee gave clarification and vision and 142 amendments, for Mr. Kuprienka, to his comments. Please vote 142, please. No, I'm just saying what happened. We're just discussing, we don't have any replicas yet, dear colleagues. I noticed that you were now demanding words. [[13:41:04]] For-34 The correction is being rejected. 108 amendments, at the request of the Levchenk People's Deputy, I emphasize that this is an amendment to Natalia Agafonova. Mrs. Natalie, notice, your 108 amendment, it's taken into account editorially. Lechenko demands a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u169	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I am now using the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubay, has joined us, yes, I am still addressing him and Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. I ask you, however, to comply with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, namely, article 117 of the Ukrainian Rules, which clearly states that it takes 10 days to hand over this table to the people's deputies in 10 days. You don't follow that, and the result might be that normal corrections, normal adjustments really, which are taken into account or partially counted, will be put on confirmation and, in fact, will not then be the hall, yes. You're deliberately creating a situation where the law is going to be in very bad shape. So either follow the Rules and move it, or I will. Unfortunately, neither does the Head of the Supreme Council listen to me, nor does Mrs. Irina listen to me. You either follow the Rules and postpone consideration so that you do not adopt an important anti-corruption law in a corrupt way, or, I very much ask you to publicly declare that if any national MP tomorrow, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u170	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u171	What if some national MP comes back tomorrow to ask some amendments for confirmation -- you won't say that you had the opportunity yesterday, you didn't take advantage of yesterday, and now it's too late. Because, for example, as a member of parliament who wants to work professionally, I'm not going to insist on some amendments that I'm not sure of, to confirm, yes, I'm going to take until tomorrow and tomorrow I'm going to insist. So please guarantee this opportunity to work on the bill in a professional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u172	Thank you. I want to report that the table is in everyone's hands, so it's possible to work fully with the tables. And you have the opportunity to have a full discussion right now. And, colleagues, I urge everyone to do systemic work. Obviously, we are not going to make a decision today, we are now in the process of being reformed. We will continue tomorrow, and it would be better if we were able to make a decision tomorrow. But you will really be able to get to know today’s revisions. You will be able to work today during the committee and in the evening with the amendments, and tomorrow we will continue the discussion. Obviously, we are not going to make a decision today. You took the word for it. Mr. Ruslan, will you comment? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't insist. Then let's move on. 142nd. [[B in m in s a l in]] 142 revisions have been made. And I would ask the right-wing authors, especially the members of the committee, where the position is understood, not always insist on the word if it's understood that we can get through faster so that we can get through most of the rights today. I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes. So 146th. Wojciecian. I appeal to the deputies. 146th. Wojciecian. 150th, Roman Semenha. [[B in m in s a l in]] 149, Igor Šurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u173	I ask the speaker to clarify the standard of part one of article 5, which suggested that there should be at least 50 judges in the Supreme Anticorruption Court. The limited number of judges of the anti-corruption court is determined according to the expenditure foreseen in the Ukrainian State Budget for the maintenance of the court. Why Is Part of the Account? At the same time, I am addressing today’s meeting. Andrew Volodymyrovich, look, a law that is archiving for Ukraine. Well, that's a joke! Well, there's always a "yes" vote in the room, and there's no more than 100 people against it. Well, we're taking a formal path to a law that is vital to our state. Well, let's do a rating vote, we're not going to let the speaker down. Considering there's not even one third in the room, let's close it. Well, it all turns into a hat. Tomorrow everyone will be devoured like a flock and will be forced to button. Let us not do this, though we may have respect for ourselves, for those in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u174	Thank you. I'll give you an answer right away to make a general understanding of the situation. There are 1,900 rights. We had one of the laws discussed for three weeks. And it's the MP's right to point out his or her rights. Of course, we looked at the various days — Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. And in this case, Mr. Igor, I should not be asked about the number of deputies, but also about the colleagues of my faction, including. And to the colleagues of your faction, including, look to the left and right. And that's why we need discipline in our faction. The MPs are now using their right to discuss rights. And my request is to pass them as quickly as possible. That's my request. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u175	As I understand it, Mr. Igor does not insist on asking for confirmation. Is he insisting? Then I'll explain the point. The point is that this amendment clearly sets the lower and upper bounds, and it provides that the marginality can be extended accordingly, including by means of the funds to be foreseen in the State Budget of Ukraine. This part of the fact that it can be expanded further, we're just going to consider. Why? Because together with the Venice Commission, we agreed that there would be a minimum number for which the court would start its work. And if the court deems it appropriate to extend this possibility in the course of the proceedings, then the funds that will immediately be budgeted can be done if necessary. If that is not necessary, they will not do so, but the need to take into account the immediate cost of the budget must be laid down immediately in the law. That's the whole point of this amendment. If you knock it down right now, we will not put it into law right now. And then they will say that there is no money, which means no expansion. Let us, if we may, not bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u176	He insists on confirmation. So I'm putting 149 amendments, which are partially accounted for, and they insist on taking it fully into account. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:47:50]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Now it's 114? We passed 114. I called all the repairs, Mr. Yuri. 150th. Please, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u177	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, our self-help bill refers to the number of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The draft law provides that a specific number of judges shall be determined within the limits of the expenditure foreseen in the Ukrainian State budget for the maintenance of this court by the Ukrainian State Court of Justice, in agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice. In doing so, according to the draft law, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is to begin its work under the appointment of at least 35 judges, including at least 10 of whom are to be judges of the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption. Such a standard, indeed, even though it partially addresses the beginning of the work of the High Court of Anticorruption, leaves the possibility of having an impact on the work of VAS by establishing an objectively inadequate number of such judges. So our proposal is to define a fixed minimum number of judges -- the 60s, of which 15 are in the Appeals Chamber. And if the amount available is not sufficient due to the court's workload, more judicial positions may be determined in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This amendment is a guarantee against what is lacking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u178	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u179	This amendment guarantees that due to the lack of judges, the work of such a newly created court will not be effective enough. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u180	Thank you. Just now, the chairman of the committee has already commented on this position. That's why I'm putting the 150th amendment to the vote. The committee is rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:49:51]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 114th, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u181	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd still like to turn around. Because unfortunately, the head of the Supreme Council just can't hear me. That's why I'm quoting the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, article 117, "Passes for the National Deputies of Bills Prepared for Second Reading." Part one: "The bill prepared for the second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be submitted to the People's Deputies no later than ten days before the day of its consideration in plenary session." It's clearly written in the Law, in the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yes. You're now discussing the issue of an anti-corruption court, a matter that must be fought against corruption in Ukraine. And you're doing it in an illegal way. You're not leaving. This is going to end because, for example, you're not going to leave me with any other way to confirm all the adjustments you've taken into account, whether they're normal or not, because I don't have the ability to assess whether they're normal or not. So I'm still asking you to give the MPs a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u182	Do you insist on voting? No, they don't. Very good. Next, I'll go, call each. 51st. 52nd. 53rd. 57th. 59th. 60th. And I won't go back to them again. What's that? Number? 160th. Please, Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u183	My esteemed colleagues, rejected by my amendment, suggested that the composition of the court should be at least 70 judges from all its composition. The other section determines when the court starts working that 35 judges, there, the committee considered that 35 first instance, 10 second. But this is actually about the composition of the court. And the amendment was caused by the very discussion and dialogue with the law enforcement authorities, with the same NAB and SAP, their wish to have such a number of judges, otherwise they would not deal with the amount of cases that are now and will be coming. It's a separate wish, it'll be in the other direction. It was the law enforcement authorities who asked for a raise. Well, I'll pick this up separately. Therefore, the request to take into account the amendment, and it is the wish of the NABA itself and the SAP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u184	Thank you. 160 amendments were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:52:36]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 161. 162nd. 161 Igor Lapin, right? Lapin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the first part of article 5: "The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court consists of at least 60 judges, at least 15 of whom are members of the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court." Because in the very body of the law it is written that the number will be formed according to the Law on the Judiciary and, thesisally, within the expenditure provided for in the State Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of this court. So we have a minimum fixed number of judges, and we can't form a court and look at the number of judges we have a budget. So I propose to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u186	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u187	I'd like to ask the members of the committee who participated and supported this position, let's not put our position into effect by ourselves right now in the High Council meeting. Logic is very simple, and, to me, it absolutely is. Because it's going to be 35 of them, 10 of them, 25 of them actually, the lower room and 10 of them the appeal room to get the court started. Believe me, it's not like that. There are dozens of cases here, not thousands, dozens of cases. And that's not exactly what law enforcement restrictions insist upon. They insist that all those who have been accused, such as the NABU, be taken away but investigated so that they are not handed down, taken out of court or brought before that court. And this amendment is also taken into account, including the Venice Commission has insisted on this. Therefore, there will be no problem in overloading the court. We've settled that question. There will be a problem, perhaps, in the underutilization of these courts. Because I'll tell you, we have tens of thousands of cases for 20 people in individual court of cassation. And this is about 35 people and dozens of things. I think tens of thousands and tens are different parameters. Let's not talk about it right now. Life will show.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u188	You don't insist on voting, do you? You insist, don't you? So 161 was rejected. Who's on it? Lapin insists on a vote that supports the vote, please. [[13:55:03]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 163. 164th. 167th. 171. 173th. 176th. 170th. Lapin, 170. And then I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u189	Dear friends, I suggest in the second part of article 5, the words "one year without the right to be re-elected by a investigating judge for two years in a row" are replaced by the words "two years without the right to be re-elected by a investigating judge twice in a row." I'll be honest, being a lawyer and having some experience at work, the investigating judge sometimes had one year to even get to know and appreciate his work and gain, as they say, that experience. Therefore, I propose that one year should be replaced by two years and that it be possible for both the investigating judges and the court as a whole to work fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u190	Thank you. So 170 amendments were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:56:19]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 171, Yuzkova. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u191	I want to go back again. Nevertheless, in order to try to prove to the MP that it is impossible to form a court that deals with cases at the first instance and in which he himself forms an Appeals Chamber, that is, a Chamber that will review his decision. So I'm asking you to support my application, which determines that at the first instance, the above-mentioned category of cases is being examined by the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of First Instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u192	Thank you. 171 revisions were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:57:24]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 173rd. 174th. 179th. 179th Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u193	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Our amendment is called to some extent, but in another way, with the amendment of the Lapin deputy. What are we talking about? Part two of article 5 defines how and by how long the investigating judges are chosen. When we're talking about top-corruption, let's get this over with. What does the investigating judge do? The investigating judge gives permission to listen, gives permission to arrest, gives permission to carry out other investigations. It is impossible to complete a complex, large, criminal case within one year. The judge, when conducting the investigation, has more access to the case and is more likely to understand where permission should be given to the investigation and where it is unnecessary to grant it. So we're proposing in our 179th amendment that we have the opportunity to re-elect two lines in a row, no more. But so that, theoretically, the investigating judge can work on one case for two years. In one year, there will be few cases that will be brought before this court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u194	Thank you. So the committee rejected 179 revisions. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:59:01]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 180th. 183rd. 185th. 191st. 194th. 199th. 200th. You insist, don't you? 200th, Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as it defines the procedure for the selection of investigating judges. The edition, which was proposed in the first reading, sends us to the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act and does not settle this issue in any way for the judges of a special court who is anti-corruption. So I ask you to make a fourth sentence in the paper: "The following judges are elected by the courts of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court at the suggestion of the head of the court or at the suggestion of any judge of this court, if the proposal of the head of the court has not been supported. The judges of the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court are not taking part in the selection of the investigating judges." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u196	So 200 revisions were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[14:00:19]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Yuzkova, 196. Or call it what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u197	188th, unfortunately, the chairman missed this amendment. I'm asking you to support my application, according to which part of the third part of article 5 of the draft excludes it as a surplus, is more technical because it's clear that the judge of the Appeals Chamber cannot be elected as an investigating judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u198	Thank you. It was rejected. If you support 188 people's deputies' rights, please vote. Please. [[14:01:06]] For-24 The decision is not taken. My colleagues, I remind you, I've continued this meeting for 15 minutes, and that's the right thing to do. We need to make the most of today's amendments, why I specifically asked the committee members to finish the discussion on the committee and find mutual understanding. Edit, if I haven't named one, you can point it out to me, and I'll go back to her. But we're not going to go back after the whole shaft of the right then to the first right, because it's just going to ruin our work. I'll keep calling all the revisions, and when I miss, you just give me a sign, a signal by raising your hand. So we stopped at 200, yeah. 196 Yuzkova, probably. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u199	Also, I didn't hear something, I'm sorry. The point is that in determining the number of investigating judges in part four of article 5, the term "in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court" is deleted. Because I think it should be decided in the court of first instance of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u200	Please tell me, can I put both of you to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u201	No, it's a little bit. I'll be short, I'll be very stylish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u202	Okay. Then I'm going to put 124 first and give you my word again. So 194 is correct. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[2:02:39]] For-19 The decision is not taken. And in 195 Yuskov, turn on the microphone again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u203	I'm asking in part four of article 5 after the words "doing the duty" to exclude the term "first-instance judge in the Supreme." and replace "the first-instance judge in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u204	Thank you. So I'm separately putting 195 votes. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:03:22]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Are you insisting on the sixth? Please, 196.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u205	I go back to the point that I don't think there can be a court in which there's an appellate chamber that's going to consider or review the legality and soundness of its own decisions. Therefore, I insist that the number 196, in section 4 of article 5, be filled in with the following sentence: "but not more than one third of the judges of the anti-corruption court of the First Instance of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u206	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 196, and the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:04:29]] For-19 The decision is not taken. So 202's, 203's, 206's. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! 206, Igor Lapin. Thank you for your support, Mr. Igor, and for your response to my request. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u207	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I believe that this amendment is more technical, that we need to complement part five of Article 5, considering that the right to part four is proposed, which specifies the procedure for the selection of the judges, and part five points out that, in addition, the investigating judge carries out his duties in the order provided for in the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u208	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 206 of Lapin. She was rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:05:34]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 209. 211. 213. 214. 215. I'm asking you to pay attention, I call each one, I call every edit. I'm not coming back tomorrow without chaos. I call every turn. 215th, Derevyanka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u209	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues, I want us to understand clearly how, in accordance with the Law on the National Budget of Ukraine, funding for the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will be provided if we just indicate the smallest number of judges when it works. It is because, as my colleagues have said once before, my ruling suggests that at least 60 persons be installed who are part of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and at least 15 persons who are members of the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court. Why? In order for Minfin to make the budget, he can calculate the necessary amount of money, putting it into the budget. The court will work with a minimum number of judges and it is very good that this position is agreed upon. But we'll understand that there's a lot of planned expenses and more judges, if that's what it takes. So please support my amendment in order for the court to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u210	Thank you. Sadly, the committee did not support her. Who supports Amendment 215, please vote. [[14:07:12]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 217th. 218th. 18th Lechenko. Lechenko or Kuprienko? Please, 218th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u211	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I point out that we have now, if we speak by the spirit of the law, not by the letter of the law, we have now an unauthorized session of the Supreme Council, we have about 111 deputies counted just now. I understand that you have electronic registration there, and so on, but if you're speaking in the spirit of law, we have an inappropriate Supreme Council, well, that's the protocol. Considering that, unfortunately, my constant remarks regarding violations of the Rules are ignored, I ask that I act as follows. I ask the chairman of the committee to comment on what he is proposing to change this included amendment, which is what she is proposing to change. In order for me as a national deputy to be able to assess at least roughly whether I should place it on confirmation or not to place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u213	It's purely editorial. Because the first reading, if you see it, says what. The article is entitled “Head of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, Head of the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court, their deputies”. But there is no substitute in the head of the Appeals Chamber, there is no mention of him in this article, nor in the body of the law, nor is he defined. There's only a deputy head of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So it's just technically clear here that we're just transferring that the Head of the High Anti-Corruption Court, his deputy and the Head of the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court. It's just a change of words in one sentence. It's a technical thing, it was a first-order print, it was corrected by the committee. If you think that's what you need to bet on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u214	Don't insist. Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u215	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. We all remember and saw this paphos bill signed, as we thanked the working group that wrote it. And everyone told me that this is a bill, this is a bill, it's simple. Perfect. I demand that this right be approved in order for this inadequacy that was written in the law to be seen by people. I completely understand that there's not enough votes right now, and I demand that it be confirmed that it doesn't go through and that everyone sees how we're literately writing bills, and in fact, we're in a hurry and we're in a hurry. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u216	I'm betting on confirmation of the 218th. The committee's asking for support. Please vote. [[2:10:08]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 220th. 222th. 225th. What's that? 223, Yuzkova. 220th. Turn on Cooper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u217	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The position doesn't change: if the law is written and it's perfect, so let's vote it completely in the text given by the President, and we won't change anything there. And we'll see how it works. It's also an amendment that. National MPs have found the disadvantage and corrected it. Let's not correct anything, because the MPs who are actually correcting this law are really in line with the legal field, with common sense, the committee has declined, no one is voting for it. So let's put it to confirmation, we vote, and let it go to the text in which it was submitted to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u218	Thank you. I'll tell you what, one minute. We go straight to the Rules, and everyone has the right to confirm, but I also call for mutual respect in the Hall all the time. When there's a technical amendment, a completely technical amendment, and now we're going to fail it, and then we're going to go out on a decision-making basis, we're just going to have a problem with legislation. And I think that this respect that I think I show to all factions, to all MPs, should be shown for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If it were a principle thing, I'd understand it. When it comes to putting things in the hands of a technical person, it seems to me, it just seems to me, it doesn't support the spirit that is in this room. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 220 for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. [[14:12:16]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 223, Yuzkova. Turn on the microphone. First 221st, then 223th will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u219	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. I have to answer, Andry Volodymyrovich, about respect for MPs. I'll report to you: the committee, when holding the meetings, although I don't know what the meeting was about, didn't invite the drafters to the bill for their sitting and didn't even report on the time and place of the draft. That's a word. I am the author of many amendments. I wasn't even notified. And now you're talking about mutual respect, respect for each other, respect for Parliament, respect for the Ukrainian people who chose us. And they said just before the hearing, the Venice Commission agreed, the IMF agreed, so you don't push too hard for your amendments, let's vote as they require. Because they probably said they wouldn't give money to the government, another tranche. So let's, if we're talking about respect, let's start with the head. I don't mean you. I mean, it's a Ukrainian saying that spoils the fish. And please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u220	I want to report to all of Ukraine. I've announced several times when the committee will be on Monday at 3 p.m. across the country. If anyone has not heard from the deputies, I have reported several times in this room, and I have not come to the committee, it is a sign of total indifference to the lines he has submitted. If he was unable to attend such a serious meeting, it means that he does not care about the fate of his rights and the bill. So 223 revisions, Yuzkova, please. I'm betting 221 revisions on confirmation. Please vote. Please confirm. [[14:14:25]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Now 223. After this amendment, we will determine where we begin tomorrow. Please, 223rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u221	Aunt Yuzkov. The previous discussion only confirms the fact that at this stage in the bill we have the head of the High Anti-Corruption Court and its deputy. This court sees matters as a court of first instance. And the Head of the Appeals Chamber of this same court, without an alternate, who in the next instance is going to check the legality and validity of the rulings of the entire court. Therefore, I would like to take my ruling into account, by voting in her favour, by determining that she is the Head of the Court of First Instance of the High Anti-Corruption Court, is the Head of the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Anti-Corruption Court and their deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-23-m0.u222	I'm betting on the vote 223, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:15:49]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now we're going to figure out which one we're going to start with. You'll point me in. 226th. 227th. 228th. 230th. 233rd. 237th. 239th. 240th. 241. 242nd. 244th. 246. What's that? I'm looking. The job is gone. I'm looking for an amendment that we're going to stop at. What's that? 236. So 236 right. It's 236 Yuslim's. We're stopping at it. So tomorrow we're going to start work with 236 revisions. And Juskov will be given the floor, I ask you to be in the room on time, and we'll get to work without discussion tomorrow. I also want to thank the head of the committee for the discussion, all right-wing authors. To remind you, tomorrow we'll start with 236. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow I ask everyone to come to the active room. Tomorrow we may have a chance to complete and positively consider the bill on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you. Good-bye. And fruitful committee work, colleagues, today.
