ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please register, Your Honor. Please register. [[10:03:20]] There were 352 national deputies registered in the hall. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Demczak. Let's welcome our colleague's birthday! We wish you both age and health! [[Applause]] And today is the Day of Liberation of the City of Kramatorska and the city of Slavyanska from the pro-Russian terrorists. I offer to welcome both the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the National Guard and the Ukrainian Security Service, who participated in the liberation of Kramatrovska and Slavyanska! To wish our advocates the inspiration to free Ukraine – Donetsk, Lugansk and Crimea from the invaders, and to restore our territorial integrity. [[Applause]] And thank the Kramatorsky and Slavyanski residents for their courage. Thank you. And we're going to consider the order of the day, dear colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues! There were statements from two political parties and a group, from the Rebirth Group and the Opposition Block for a break. The group and the faction agree to replace the application. And from the Opposition Block, the statement will now be taken by Honorary colleague Igor Shurma. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u2	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Yesterday we had our first meeting together by two Committees of Social Policy, Employment, Pensions, and Health. We were forced to sit in a state of affairs that is now in health care. The message of the day was to listen to the report of the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the reform. It is unfortunate that the two committees were not present at the meeting yesterday. The minister, not a single deputy, delegated to this meeting a person who was assigned to the Ministry of Reform only in May. Even more sad was when we watched our friends celebrate the independence of the United States yesterday. At the same time that the issue was being considered, the so - called The minister played the game "and what's in the box," and that's the attitude both to the committees and to the Supreme Council, and to the state of reform in general. What was even more surprising was that today, it turns out, the ministry isn't reforming, they're doing transformation. And on our question -- and where is the reform, whether you have approved the National Health System Development Concept, the system of its implementation -- we were officially told by protocol that this is not the case. Then, in a joint decision, we found that the concept of the development of the national health system was missing, and the strategy for implementation was missing. A joint decision of the Committees made an appeal to the Prime Minister to consider the question of the appropriateness of the Suprun's position as First Deputy Minister. It is timely for the Supreme Council to present a nomination for the post of Minister. From the rostrum of the Supreme Council to hear the report of the so - called Minister in the course of a certain. this period of time when she's in office. Today, all members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of various political powers voted unanimously for this decision. It is clear to everyone today that the issue of personnel is the question of the prime minister's responsibility. And I'm going to go to the Prime Minister, as the Odyssey Lynchevski used to say, remember, "Friends, it's cancer, they're going to die anyway, effectiveness from zero programs." So I say to members of the Cabinet of Ministers, "Friends, this is non-professionalism! You're going to get everybody off sooner or later, and the efficiency of your job is zero." Therefore, we ask that you submit a report to the Minister of Health and the Suprun Report of Decree 5632. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u3	Thank you, dear colleagues. So we're done here, which was replaced by a break. We're moving to the agenda. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of you that on Wednesday we concluded our session with a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of the single window mechanism and optimizing the implementation of control procedures when moving goods across Ukraine's customs borders. This law is discussed in a second reading. And we put a dot on 143 yesterday. I invite you to the rostrum of a distinguished colleague, the national deputy Krishin. Please. And now we're moving on to the amendments. Colleagues, there's not enough change left, there's a busy agenda, there's guests in our guest bed, and hopefully we'll get to the personnel questions today. So I suggest we all go back to the session room, and we start our work. So, the amendment of 144 of our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Oksana, is for sale. Mrs. Oksana, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we have been trying since 2005 to simplify and make transparent controls and customs procedures at the checkpoints. For the first time, the Law on Previous Documentary Control was adopted as a decree, and the Law on Previous Documentary Control was adopted in 2011. And unfortunately, we don't have any transparency today, no easy procedures, no smuggling and no customs rules. This Bill 7010, which is proposed, is aimed at, and I hope it will change the situation for the better at the points of the pass: both exporters and importers at the points of the pass will be able to easily and easily shape the goods. So I ask you to support this bill when we put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, Mrs. Prodan, who worked very closely with the committee on amendments to the bill, does not insist on 144 amendments, on putting it to the vote. But she only here sounded her position and support for the bill under discussion. We're moving on. And he came to me. 152 amendment, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't you insist? 147th. Please, Mrs. Tetjana Ostrikav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, regarding the amendment of 147 of the authorship of the national deputies Krishina, Jujanina, Ostrickova. Today we are continuing to consider this very important bill on the introduction of actually electronic documents and the processing of goods in any regime envisaged by the Customs Code, solely through the appropriate single-window customs system. Yesterday we completed the amendments to the Customs Code, today we are going to amend the relevant laws, especially now this amendment applies to the Radio Frequency Act. And I'd like to ask the honourable rapporteur of Mr. Krishin's Committee to explain in more detail what the General Staff of the Armed Forces is saying is that they're bringing into the single national information portal the "one window" of documents that are allowed in the form of electronic documents. And I'd like him to explain right now which documents, permits for electronics and special-purpose radiation devices are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize once again that we are not introducing any other kind of control. We're just saying that all the documents that we've had to file in paper form before, we're only going to file in the "washed window" mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u8	Thank you for your clarification. As I understand it, Mrs. Ostrikova said she didn't insist on voting, she just wanted to hear the committee's precise position here. 152nd, Walking. Don't insist. 153rd, Lopushanski. Don't insist. 155th. Victor Pinzenik and National Deputy Kulinic insist. I give my word to Pinzenik, you give it to 156. So the amendment is now, colleagues, very much attention, please. 155 and 156 amendments are amendments made by the national deputy Krishina, and the committee has taken them into account. But Victor Pinzenik and the Kulinich National MP put them on the stand for confirmation. Please, Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, this amendment amends the Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. This right to support, according to this law, introduces special wagons for the transport of grain. Obviously, our grain traders earn little, and they need a little help through the government support tool. With the same success, let's include state support for metal production, metal is also going to produce technology for the agricultural sector, let's include the autofill owners, because agriculture also gets, uses fuel. I'm asking you to put this bill on confirmation and your colleagues won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u10	Please turn on the Kulinich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the author of the rights, the national deputy of Krishna, and provide some explanations. These laws amend two laws: support for the APC and the promotion of machine building. We have 945 million dollars in technology for 2018, these are already in the budget. Obviously, these costs are not going to be used to the full extent, so we're offering them, if they stay, to send them for cheaper, purchasing, buying grain wagons just for farmers who are going to be purchased at Ukrainian factories in Lviv, Kremenchuk, Dnipro. And that's why we think that this paper will give us an opportunity to improve the road on Ukrainian roads. And our agro-man, this is real support and incentive for manufacturers of cars like this that are in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Please give you your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! I am very much asking that we support this amendment. This is the support of our native machinery. This is the lobbying of our native machinery. Please support the committee's opinion, support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! So the committee asked for this amendment to be supported, and the committee voted in favour. At the same time, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik asks that amendment 155 be made for confirmation. I'm asking the hall to be defined and I remind you that the committee is asking for a vote. Please identify yourself. [[10:16:05]] For-69 69-yes. Correction not supported. The next one, please, was the people’s deputy Kulinic, who called for 156 amendments. No, you don't. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back to the hall because we have literally a few amendments left, and we're moving with you to the vote. I think it's five minutes. 166 revisions. This is an amendment by the people's deputy Kulinić, sorry, it's an amendment by the national deputy Krishina. And he insists that she be confirmed by the People's Deputy Pinzenic. Please turn on Pinzenik's microphone, we're discussing 166 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! This amendment refers to the same subject that I just raised. Concerning the introduction of support for the production of grain wagons. Moreover, I would like to point out that this amendment had no right at all to appear in the law because the first reading did not contain appropriate standards. And we have the right to make second reading only those amendments to the standards discussed in the first reading. So I'm asking you to apply for confirmation and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u16	Please turn on the microphone to support the repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize once again that this is only about farmers. We now have a budget program with 945 million dollars. Obviously this program is not going to be used in domestic manufacturing. So we suggest, if they stay, that we send them to support the domestic manufacturer who manufactures these factories. Grains, and just support our agrarians. Because it's only about agrarians, it's about fourth group taxpayers. And this is very important for both the agrarians and the Ukrainian manufacturer. So I'm asking you to protect this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u18	Excuse me! Please give the committee a word. But really, I admit that this was a violation of the Rules because either the author has to speak for the amendment, or the committee. Please, Mr. Krishin, and we will follow the Rules. I'm sorry, it's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision, to support your colleagues' decisions. We do. This is about supporting our machine building. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we are now discussing 166 amendments. She's accepted by the committee, and the committee's asking her to support her. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic asks for confirmation. I'm calling on the hall to decide on this amendment and reminding you that the committee is asking to vote in favour. [[10:19:16]] Z-71 This amendment is not accepted. Let's move on. And I'm looking very closely at Mrs. Ostrikov, who requires her to give her the word after Amendment 172. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, with regard to 172 amendments, it is proposed to delete "in paragraph 31, paragraph 2, of Section III, paragraph 3 and paragraph 5 delete". And that's what we have to change to the Border Control Act. So I'd like not to put this amendment, which is considered by the committee, on confirmation right now. I would like our honourable rapporteur, the committee representative, to explain in more detail how we are passing on to cross-border control of radiological control, because it is an important revolutionary change envisaged by this bill. More environmentalists won't be at the checkpoints, we're transferring radiological control to the knowledge of the State Border Service, which will be mobile devices to measure the level of radiological radiation, and, only if it works, will it call from the district centers of relevant environmental experts. That's why I'd like to ask you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u22	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Thank you for that question. I would like to stress once again that we have only border guards and customs at the checkpoints after the adoption of this bill. This bill simplifies customs formalities. We're handing over the radiological control function to the Ukrainian State Border Service. Ukraine’s foreign service. We're simplifying customs procedures, so I'm asking all my colleagues to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, we are discussing 172 amendments, and we have heard that the amendment simply required an explanation of the committee but did not insist on voting. Colleagues, we are approaching the conclusion of the discussion of amendments. I very, very much ask all the honourable national MPs to return from the towers to the workplace, because we have literally three amendments left, and we're going to vote. And I'll remind you that on Wednesday, during the discussion of the amendments, there was an agreement that during the final already chord we would go back to a few amendments that were discussed and a controversial position in the room, and that were put to the vote, but then we agreed to go back to them. So, Mrs. Ostrikova, 174th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, please note the very important amendment to the Law on Fisheries, Industrial Fisheries and the Protection of Water Resources. It is this amendment of the authorship of the national deputies Krishina, Yuzanina, and Ostrikov that provides for the order of movement across the customs border of Ukraine of water resources and products from them. And in particular, it is envisaged that the documents necessary for the customs processing of such bioresources will also be submitted to the single national information web portal "The Single Window for International Trade" in the form of an electronic document, and the revenue and assembly bodies will carry out customs formalities to release such bioresources and produce from them, based on electronic documents that will reduce contact, namely, importers and relevant ZED entities with the controlling body. Mr. Krishin, please explain in more detail the content of this revolutionary amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u26	I am. To put it very simply, this law does not in any way introduce any additional control. If, earlier in the electronic declaration, the subject had to submit documents in paper form, today the entire package of documents would be in the "one customs window". It's a very large deregulation. It's a very big simplification. And I'm asking you very much to support this entire room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u27	Thank you. The author does not insist on voting. She was just refocusing the halls on the importance of this amendment and the law in general. Colleagues, we have two amendments left, two. This means that we will have a vote in a few minutes. I'm asking you to return to the session room. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak. 175th. It's an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to two amendments: 175th and 176th, which relate to the order in which the administration of the seaports interacts and, in particular, to the coordination of the activities of the administration of the seaports, portposts, the establishment of vessels of the fishing industry. I want to immediately thank the MPs who are majors, particularly Mr. Gulyav, representing his region, and I can really see that he is hurting for the seaports that are in his district. As well as the author's team of colleagues of Dirov, Sakka, Djublik, Lensky, Rybak. And it is thanks to your amendments, which have been taken into account, in part, by the working group of the committee, that we have drawn up a clear order of interaction between the administration of marine fish ports and the central executive authority, which implements the policy of national surveillance (control) in the field of environmental protection. Thank you very much, Mr. Krishin. Explain in more detail what this amendment foresees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u29	Please, Mr. Krishin, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. This right, this right, we are amending the Ukrainian Fisheries, Industrial Fisheries and Conservation Act. Regarding the interaction between port administration and the Derjeko inspection unit in cases of discharge by vessels of pollutants within the port area. We've settled this procedure with this right, made it more transparent and clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Ostrikova doesn't insist on voting, she just, again, took advantage of her right to pay attention to these important amendments. Colleagues, we're moving on to the last amendment. I very much ask all my colleagues to return to the session room. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak, amendment number 191. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments to the professional laws that regulate the activities of the control and permitting authorities, which provide permits for goods for their customs clearance in appropriate customs regimes. These include amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Food, Feed, Animal by-products, Animal Health and Welfare. And in particular, in 191 amendments, please note that the interaction of the competent authority with the authorities of incomes and congregations, other authorized bodies, is also being carried out in the course of State control of cargoes of products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, using the "one window" mechanism. Information on the results of State control in the form of an electronic document signed by an electronic digital signature is submitted by the State Veterinary Inspector to the single national information web portal "One Window", which also minimizes the contact of our entrepreneurs in external economic activity with the controlling authorities, which we know may sometimes be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Please explain to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u34	The committee supported this amendment because it is a principle and it is the ideology of this bill. All documents are submitted electronically, everything is an electronic customs window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we've made some adjustments. But Arthur Herasimov raises his hand and requires 195 corrections to give him his word. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I would like to say that there is a position of MPs from eastern Ukraine, from Donetsk, from the Donetsk region, and from all the other MPs involved. We ask you to complete this bill with the next paragraph. In section III of the bill, paragraph 2 should be added to paragraph 36: “In the PCU (“The Voice of Ukraine” of 04.12.2010 – No. 229/230) paragraph 166. Article 166, paragraph 166.3.9., is amended as follows: "166.3.9. The amount of the rent-based rent paid under the lease of the dwelling (house, house) made in accordance with the requirements of the applicable legislation, which is actually paid by the taxpayer who has the status of an internally displaced person, the taxpayer shall be entitled to benefit from the tax reduction mentioned in this subparagraph only if he and/or members of his family are first and second degrees of the relationship.".. Can I finish for 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u37	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u38	". do not have property suitable for housing located outside the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, do not receive the budget payments foreseen by the Ukrainian legislation to cover housing expenses, the size of such a discount may not exceed 30 per calendar year minimum wage is fixed on 1 January of the fiscal year." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u39	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is the position, so I take it, the Peter Dusty Block with the requirement for a transcript to make these amendments. We'll determine in the final vote. Ivanchuk, 196. Please, come on, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u40	Madam Chairman, the People's Front also insists on the inclusion in this progressive bill of amendments that will improve customs procedures in processing, namely: Article 149(2), the words “on the basis of which the processing of goods will take place” shall be replaced by the words “on the basis of which the goods listed in the application were or will be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine”; In paragraph 7, add paragraph 3, “external economic contract type”; in paragraph 7, add paragraph 4, “external economic contract accounting form” in Article 155, add paragraph 4 of the following substance, that the implementation in the customs territory of Ukraine of processed goods owned by a resident enterprise is carried out after the processing of such products into the customs regime of import with payment of all customs duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u41	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u42	with payment of all customs payments, which, according to the laws of Ukraine, are charged at the time of importation into the customs territory of Ukraine. Otherwise, we do not answer the basic question of supporting Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, a moment. Ivanchuk. Dear colleague Ostrikav, 201 amendment, please. 201 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak not at this time on 201 amendments, but I would like to go back to amendment 60, where there is paragraph 7 marked 3, where it is stated that temporarily, before Ukraine's formal accession to the Single Transit Regime Convention, I would like to make an editorial amendment on the temporary validity for Ukraine of the Single Transit Regime Convention. Because we can join the convention, but it won't work for us yet, it won't work until our legislation has established a procedure for ratifying it. This is very important, it is the amendments that relate to Euro-integration, Ukraine's accession to the Convention on a common transit regime and to the NCTS system, the new computerized system for the transit of goods with the European Union and EU-EUET countries. I'd like you to take her into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm going to give the summary word to Mr. Krishna's reporter and we're going to the vote in just a minute. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during the discussion of the bill, editorial changes have been made from Mrs. Ostrikov's to 60 amendments to take into account, there, the technical parameters relating to terms. An amendment was also made from the national deputy Gerasimov under the transcript concerning the displaced. And the People's Deputy Ivanchuk also received a transcript of the amendments concerning the technical aspects of this bill under discussion. I ask now that the National Deputy Krishin sum all this up, and we go to the vote. And I also point out that there were some nuances during the discussion of the amendments that we now need to hear from Mr. Krishin, as we return to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! So that we don't balance the bill as a whole and we have its goal, I ask you to go back and vote 14, 30, 58, 59, 155 and 166. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please, I'll put you to the vote in a minute. Dear colleagues, are they all in the workplace? Let's start our already active day with the results of the vote, because we have a full-blown agenda. So at the request of the rapporteur from Mr. Krishin's committee, I am now voting for the return of the Hall to amendments 14, 30, 58, 59, 155 and 166. Please vote in favour of returning to these amendments. [[10:35:25]] For-166 Mr. Krishin. We're going out. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! We're completely balancing this bill, we're completely balancing it. I'm talking to you again, two years of work, we're going to completely balance, let's go back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u49	Please, Mrs. Ostrovsky, she is the most active author of the amendments. Including I want to remind my colleagues and self-help that yesterday, during the discussion of the amendments, there was such an initiative in common with your faction, and the presence of others, the People's Front, that on Thursday we will return to the amendments that have just been made to avoid balancing the law. And now I'm going along with the Rules. Please. And Mr. Yvchenko confirms it now, as agreed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I'm going to urge you to support the 30th edition of Krishina, Yuzanina, Ostrikova, which amends the 319th Article of the Customs Code, is the "one window" law on customs. And I'm aging you in 319 articles, which we're completely changing the interaction of ZED subjects at the point of entry, where we're leaving only two control organs, is an organ of income and assembly and a cross-border body. And we're completely changing the order of interaction on internal customs, where everything will now be in electronic form. If the Hall doesn't now support amendment 30, which was kicked out by the People's Deputy Chicken, then this law will just lose all meaning. I'm asking you to support exactly 30 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that you have abstained in this vote, so once again, on the demand of Self-Help, I'm betting that we return to Amendments 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 156. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. We are voting now for the return of 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 156, so that the bill is not balanced. 166, I'm sorry, 155, 166. Please vote and this is the committee's request to vote in favour, please. [[10:38:17]] For 240 Thank you so much for the constructive position of the hall. Thus, 240 national deputies voted in favour of returning to these amendments. I'm voting on the bill, I'm voting on the amendments that we're 14, 30, 58. 59, 155, 166, please vote in favour, please, and we are going to vote in favour of the bill. Please, colleagues, identify yourself. [[10:38:58]] For 224 The reporter at this time approached the chairman, let's at least get the reporter to vote, colleagues. I'm calling the hall again, we've got a busy day. We'll put it on again. Dear colleagues, there is a consensus in the hall that we are voting for these amendments so that the bill is not balanced. And I'm asking you to confirm the vote for amendments 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 166, please, for the return to these amendments. And please don't go, we're voting for a return, please. [[10:39:54]] For 229 Thank you. 229. I put to the vote the amendments: 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 166. Please be sure. [[10:40:17]] For 222 Please, what are we doing next? Now. Two minutes, we're just going to figure out how we're moving to adopt a comprehensive bill and move. Please, please. Dear colleagues! Last but not least, at the request of the committee and representatives of several factions, I'm betting on the return of Amendment 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 166. I'm asking the hall to focus and we're putting a packet of return votes on the amendments. I ask you to determine: 14, 30, 58, 59, 155, 166, please. [[10:41:46]] For 252 252-yes. And now we're correcting 14 30, 58, 59, 155, 166 for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:42:12]] For 241 241 – yes. Colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of the single window mechanism and optimizing the implementation of control procedures for the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine (No. 7010) with editorial rights issued by Tetjana Ostrikov, concerning article 60 7 of the paragraph concerning. The editorial rights of the national deputy Gerasimov concerning the settlers, and the national deputy Ivanchuk, as amended, which we have just voted on. I'd like to state, your honor, according to Bill 7010 with editorial rights, spoken by three colleagues and Mr. Krishini. [[10:43:11]] For 254 Congratulations. There's a vote on behalf of the People's Deputy Dove who raised his hand. There's no reason to vote anymore. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, we've started the day successfully. Hopefully, we won't have to go back to voting because we won't be in the hall. And we're moving on. Now we have a day-to-day issue with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The law has been passed – thank you to the Honourable Oleg Lašek – the law has been passed! He gave the chairman the right rule that I was about to announce: Law 7010 was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues, for your successful fruitful work. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Why is there so much noise in the hall? Next. A very important decision, by which I am sure we will unite the Hall, is the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the institutions of the EU on the deepening of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union, worked by national deputies from different factions. And, colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[10:44:45.]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, next week the 20th anniversary summit of Ukraine-EU will be held in Brussels. And it is clear that the voice of Parliament, which is a key institution in the implementation of the Association Agreement relating to the implementation of Ukrainian legislation, the modernization of European norms and standards, is extremely important. And that's why I want to thank my colleagues, the leadership of the Supreme Council -- Andrya Parubiyev, Oksani Syroid, the factions leaders -- Arthur Gerasimov, Maxim Burbak, Oleg Berezuk, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, Oleg Lášk, other colleagues, but first of all the Committee on European Integration and Foreign Affairs, which initiated our joint application for the summit. What do we find in this statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? The first is our commitment to Euro-Integration, our awareness of the domestic work that the government must do, and our parliament to move this way as quickly as possible and get a positive signal about the prospect of membership for Ukraine when we do our homework. But we should also appeal to the European Union for the European Union’s commitment to Ukraine. In this statement, you and I have fixed those deep concerns about the peaceful position of the countries of the European Union towards the completely political project of the Nord Stream 2 Kremlin, and we will not be silent about it. We also urge the European Union to hold sanctions against the Russian Federation for the full implementation of the Minsk Accords, for the release of Donbas and the Crimea. And the key, too, is very important to us -- in this statement, colleagues, we are also fixing requests with you, a requirement for the European Union to strengthen sanctions against Russia to free hostages and political prisoners. We stress that more than 60 Ukrainian Crimean Tatars will be held in Russian prisons, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u54	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u55	Likewise, colleagues, we emphasize that Russia is fully responsible for the Kremlin’s captives in occupied areas and we demand that they be released. I am convinced that this statement will unite the Hall and become a very serious aid to Ukrainian diplomats, a delegation led by the President of Ukraine at the summit to demonstrate our course towards Euro-Atlantic integration, and our expectation of the European Union for the support of Ukraine, our territorial integrity and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u57	Please, Maxim Savrasov gives the word to Mary Ionov, who will speak from the place. Please, Mistress Mary. It presents the position of the Peter Dustenk Block and the Profile Committee of European Integration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to make a note. Which, in fact, in addition to the very important political support of the countries of the European Union for countering the aggression of the Russian Federation and restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine as a major part of the agenda of the daily XX summit of Ukraine-EU will be the implementation of the Association Agreement and the Free Trade Zone. And today we are clearly following the irreversible processes of integration of the Ukrainian economy into the European Union market. We have seen how historically the geographical structure of Ukrainian exports has changed in favour of increasing exports to the European Union. I would like to point out that, indeed, in the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the institutions of the European Union, the Parliament of Ukraine calls for increased cooperation on Ukraine's integration into the EU energy market, increased cooperation in the field of digital economy, enhanced cooperation in customs and justice, freedom and security. We also expect from the institutions of the European Union the further closer interaction with regard to the implementation of the Association Agreement and the maximum use of the integration opportunities of Ukraine into the internal market of the European Union in those areas of common interest and covered by the Association Agreement. I would also like to point out that Parliament is committed to adapting the harmonisation of the right to EU law, and we also call on all ministries to be committed and responsible for implementation. Madam Chairman and honourable colleagues, I also ask you to support the introduction of one technical change in the text. This is in a reference to the word "transmitter state" in terms of "partner state" in the corresponding differences, that is, Ukraine is a partner state. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ionova. And of course, when we vote, we'll take this technical amendment into account. Please present the position of the Self-Help faction. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, despite the fact that the text is perhaps not very specific in nature, but this is a historic moment, a breaking moment. For the first time, Ukraine has defined a vision for itself – a vision of cooperation with the European Union. What is the EU summit? This is the agenda for the following year, how Ukraine and the European Union will work together and how we will further integrate our relations in different areas, first of all in the economic sphere. And for the first time, Ukraine is proposing to the European Union itself, not expecting us to be offered by the EU, a closer cooperation in the field of digital market, innovation, energy, customs union. All these things, they are strategic in terms of our balance of economic and political relations. Of course, we are not avoiding the question that the European Union is today a key political partner, because the aggression of the Russian Federation is in no way disappearing from the agenda. A year ago, the European Union spoke about the fact that languages cannot go beyond enlargement, i.e. the enlargement of the European Union, and last week, Macedonia and Albania received a clear statement that they could gain membership in the European Union in the near future. This means that for Ukraine, these doors can also be opened if we properly implement, including the Association Agreement. And this is the task of this Parliament. So I ask you to support this first step -- a statement, to propose to the European Union to reconcile our vision during the summit, and then to work on the full implementation of the Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Please, Maxim Burbak, present the position of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this decision because before the 20th EU summit. Ukraine-EU, which will take place next week, we must confirm that Ukraine is moving confidently towards EU membership. Since 2014, a number of decisions have been taken, more than 140 laws, illegal acts initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and in this room have been adopted, and all skeptics who scepticically refer to the granting of visas to our country are now silent and using biometric passports to travel freely in Europe, as all Ukrainian citizens do. So I think we need to go to our partners first, so that we can confirm our position: Ukraine will be a member of the European Union, Ukraine will be a member of NATO. And that's why we came out with our initiative to make it anchored in the changes to the Constitution. These changes were echoed at the People's Front convention, which was bugged by the leader of the People's Front, Arsenia Yatsenuk. We should clearly lay down in the Constitution that Ukraine should become a member of the EU, a member of NATO. And the next. This is the position of the People's Front. Thank you for having approved in the draft decree that we're asking our Western partners to do everything they can to make it impossible to build the North Stream 2 is a gas storm for the countries of Europe. We got him out of 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u63	Let me finish, please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u64	And we're not going to let our European partners get into this mess despite a lot of business. Therefore, my fellow Members, I once again urge the entire Chamber to vote on this decision in order to give us a decent definition of the future of our Ukraine, the future of the country, the EU and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, two minutes is the same as Oleg Lazko. Just two factions couldn't log in. So two minutes they get the same thing. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. This turnout, which seems to be the seventh of the last three months of Parliament's appeal to the European Union, is a display of less value. They're beggars who are humiliatingly asking for something. And instead of asking, we need to be strong when we're strong, when we have people working in Ukraine, making money, when there's a strong economy and a strong army, then we don't have to ask for anything, they come and offer. You're ruining the economy, millions of people are going abroad looking for where to make money. Yesterday the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant went bankrupt, then you go, you ask! Who's gonna give you, hoss, except for the taxes? I don't want you to humiliate my country with humiliating requests. I don't want you standing on your knees in front of every meeting. We need to be strong, we need to rebuild the economy. Why is there no requirement for a quota review in this reference to the European Union? The meager quotas that we've exhausted, especially for honey, in 10 days of this year, and all the rest of us are paying our dues. Why we're being investigated against our anti-dumping workers, limiting our ability to sell, the authorities are doing nothing to protect the national manufacturer, to protect Ukrainian jobs, to find new markets for our production. You sell land, you sell wood, you sell cheap labor and national interests in Ukraine. And after that, you pretend that if you are 20 or 50 years old, Ukraine will become strong and defend itself. No, it won't! Because the poor and the weak, no one respects the world. To be respected, we must be strong, raise the economy, protect Ukrainian jobs and the wealth of Ukrainian families, and then we will be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u67	Colleagues, in one minute, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone. I'm sorry, I didn't know, Fatherland. Sobole, please. And this will be a closing statement, two minutes Soboljel and ask everyone to enter the hall, and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the course of the state was not determined by you, but by the people in Maidan, they went out on the street when Yanukovic led Russia into the country. You don't have to figure out where to go right now, people have chosen you, and that's why you're sitting in this room. If anyone is going to play an anti-European rhetoric, go back to the people, look them in the eye, go to those who died on the front today, those hundred people who died on the Maidan who were shot, and explain to them where you're leading the country. Our faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u69	Thank you, colleagues. Now, one minute, Irina Heratchenko, and in a minute, we're going to vote. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u70	I want to point out from the author's team, to sum it up. It's strange to hear that, as if Ukraine is doing reforms for Mogherini, we're doing them for Ukraine. And those countries in Eastern Europe that have joined the strongest NATO and EU alliances have become stronger, and their people have become richer. And so in fact, in this statement we're going to redefine our commitment to the course that the Ukrainian people chose to Euro-integration, so we're going to be implementing Ukrainian legislation into better standards. At the same time, we will never pretend that Ukraine is only the debtor of the European Union. No, it's an equal partner relationship, and we demand our partners, too, to see a large contribution to Ukraine, to security, to protecting the security of the European Union, and we are also focusing on the inadmissibility of the Northern Stream political project. We call for pressure on the Russian Federation on sanctions and help us free the hostages, and free Ukraine from the Russian mercenary, from the Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u71	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u72	And I don't think there can be any discussion here at all, because this is a statement of equal partners with which we appeal to the European Union on an equal footing, and the lower cost of speaking out of the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u73	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the EU institutions for the deepening of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union (No 8551) as a whole with technical and legal rights. Jonah, who sounded. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:00:44]] For 233 233-yes. It's been decided. Colleagues, on the following issue of the Order of the Day Law, 6697 is technically working on a committee and asking it to move it through one question. As long as the technical transmission goes on, we move on to the next issue of the agenda -- 8331-d. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the financial sector in Ukraine. Colleagues, a dutiful law for the financial sector of Ukraine. I very much ask everyone to be mobilized and I ask you to support its consideration by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Back up, fellows! [[11:01:44]] For-166 166 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! By your commission, the bill of Law 8331 was finalized, first and foremost in the balance between the representatives of Parliament and the President. An equal number is set for both the competition committee and the supervisory board. And since we've been seriously processing technical details, we're asking for your support as a whole. What I'm saying is why 8331 is being proposed to you today, this bill needs to be supported. We're going to bring together a system in the public sector of the banking system that is extremely monopolistic 56 percent, and I want to say it's chronically harmful and ineffective. So I think this bill needs to be voted on. The other one. What I'm saying is that we have ineffective control of hundreds of billions of dollars from the State budget, which we're sending to support state banks. And that's where we're going to put things in order. And this is the bill that allows us. Third. What I'm saying is that we don't have formed supervisory boards at state banks today, and that's why this bill allows for a new mechanism to start and finally have order. And finally, the fourth thing I was going to say. We also need to make arrangements in our commitments to our partners. And there we have to get 800 million dollars in financial aid. And this will help our economy to work more efficiently and more efficiently. So I would like to support the committee's decision and to adopt Bill 8331-d as a basis and as a whole, and to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, with the task of conducting technical legal reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u75	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. Sergei Viktorovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Indeed, the issue of state banks today is very painful. 60 percent of the banking system is now government banks. These banks have to support their own economy today, do everything they can to make the loans available, especially for business, particularly through a credit-export agency to support us today so that we have manufacturers, exporting producers can supply and be competitive in the market. I want to remind you that in the time of independence, 12 billion government money went to support state banks, as I say, into the sand. We had a basic and alternative bill. On the basis of the committee we've worked on and done, I think, a great improvement of this bill, but, in fact, as my colleague Mr. Doubenko said, we don't have councils in state banks today, and that says that there is no State control today, on the part of the public banks. So, as I say, "no good limit," but in this case, we propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u77	Thank you. From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u79	Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. Dear colleagues, the law is about improving the financial sector of Ukraine. Just before we started, we were handed out the 2017 report of the Court of Auditors, which revealed the illegal and ineffective use of state funds and property for 23 billion dollars. Twenty-three billion! And we want 2.8 billion to improve the coal sector just to modernize the mines, so that we can start new lavas, which in the future will pay the wages and pay the miners in general. I'm asking you to consider Bill 8362 today, and the Ministry of Finance will still have the 2.8 billion to modernize the coal sector. And these 23 billion, according to the accountancy report, I think that if we were to do the job effectively, we could send these funds to upgrade the mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u80	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u81	Ironically, I would like to draw the attention of our pensioners, workers and peasants to a bill that is currently under consideration. Just so you know, my dears, for 27 years, 1 trillion-- think about the figure! – 1 trillion dollars the state has ineffectively used to support state banks. 56 financial monopolies in the country are working today. These are budgets that should go to support pensioners. These are budgets that should go towards the development of national infrastructure. These are budgets that would go into the real economy: factories, factories, farm development, the competitiveness of our state. Then the new jobs, then the high wages, then the only social contribution, then the scarce pension fund, then the additional pension for our pensioners, then the economic sovereignty of our state. And under these conditions, if we were to put order in the banking sphere so that banks wouldn't distribute quotas to parties that are represented in particular by the Ukrainian Parliament and ministers represented in the government, we would have achieved a situation with you if we hadn't written letters of request to the European Union or Washington or to any other capital of the universe. Today our key task is to adopt this bill. After that, because of the creation of new financial institutions, institutional order in the financial market, the adoption of Bill 6677 on the second level of pension insurance. Create the conditions for really running this second level. Make it possible for our young people with you today to get a pension later. This is the whole package of measures that Parliament is going to make. We don't have the moral right of the next Parliament to pass on these white spots in actual legislation. We're voting for this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u82	Colleagues, pay attention! Now there'll be a closing statement from the Self-Help faction. In two minutes, we'll go to the vote. I'd like to invite all the deputies into the hall. This is one of the key laws for the Ukrainian financial sector. I ask very responsibly, especially those factions that support this law, to invite everyone into the hall, to prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, I address you. Maximum mobilization, two minutes to vote. It's two minutes from Self-Help, Roman Semenich. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u83	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the Self-Help Unit will support this important bill. And I think once again it is worth paying attention to the main ones involved in this legislative act. In fact, it's an amended bill on state banks that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and considered in the Hall, but was not actually accepted because of a weak appearance. What is being suggested. First. This is a change in the corporate governance system of state banks according to the principles of strategic reform of the state banking sector, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers this year. In particular, it is envisaged that the supervisory board of the State Bank consists of nine members, six of whom should be independent and three members representing the State in proportion to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament. A list of the criteria to be met by independent members of the Supervisory Board and representatives of the State in the Supervisory Board is also provided. It is also very important, colleagues, that in order to identify such candidates as members of the Board of Supervisors of the Cabinet of State, a competition commission consisting of a representative of the President, three representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and one representative of Parliament. This numerical representation is perfectly logical because it is the Cabinet of Ministers who is responsible for this sector and it is its direct responsibility. It is also important to understand that this deals with the organization of cash circulation. In connection with the process of transformation of the National Bank and the centralization of certain functions, there is now a process of eliminating its divisions in the regions. In view of this, therefore, there is a need for changes at the legislative level of the functions of the NBA, which fall within the mandate of the National Bank of Ukraine to delegate its powers to the cash portion of the region to the authorized banks according to a separate license granted by the NBA. Dear colleagues, please support, this is an important step for the further corporateisation of state banks and as a continuation, to reduce the share of the state in the financial sector of Ukraine. Thank you. In the banking sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a key law for the banking sector, so I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. Return to the People's Chamber. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm addressing all factions and factions: we're now moving on to a decision, every voice will be important. I want to remind you that this is a rereading of the first reading. The last time we didn't have enough literally a few votes, colleagues, so now every voice will have a lot of weight. So, ready, can we go through?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u85	Please, I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the functioning of the financial sector in Ukraine (No.8331-d) with the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. We vote, colleagues, we are all united, we support. Please vote, vote, vote. Colleagues, pay attention to each voice. [[11:13:08]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed. [[Applause]] Welcome to the working group that prepared the bill! My colleagues, I would like to remind you, yesterday we voted in favour of the inclusion of a day session in order to decide this week's draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square (8541 and 8541-1). So now, we include it on Tuesday, I have the right to put it to the vote now. And I ask you now to support the consideration of Project Regulations 8541 and.41-1 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:14:07]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikola. Colleagues, this is the Post Office, and we've put it in the agenda for decision-making, and I have the right to put it at any moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, when we discussed the ruling when we discussed this decision for inclusion in the agenda, I actually read it to you. I'll read it briefly again. So: "The Supreme Council decides that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will take the necessary measures to preserve objects of historical and cultural heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. Take an object of cultural heritage, a section of the coastal town quarter of the Middle Ages of Kiev, in the post office in Kiev, to the State Register of Real Estates of Ukraine, under the category “Remembrance of National Meaning. ” The Kyiv City State Administration recommends that comprehensive public information measures be taken regarding the objective current state of the art with regard to the museumization of the cultural heritage and the extensive discussion of further steps with a view to reducing social tension. The decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." Since we have discussed both the subject matter and the terrible situation surrounding the Memorial in the Postal Square for a long time, I propose that we support this decision on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u87	Please welcome Yuri Lewchenko to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u88	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Unfortunately, the Kyiv City Council, led by Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka, does nothing to preserve our cultural heritage in order to create a museum of medieval Kiev, in order to preserve the street of the ancient Kiev of the 11th century, which was found during the construction of the new Postal Square, but wants to build a shopping and entertainment centre called "Zavospa Januković" Kravc under the omofor of Mr. Ljovczyn – sponsor of Klick. In view of this, it is necessary for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to intervene. And I hope that even if there is a desire here, maybe there is a desire to really preserve our heritage, not to build exclusively shopping and entertainment centers. But the first draft of the solution, which is proposed, has its positives, but it's not working. The problem with the first draft of the solution is that it does not offer to create a museum directly, nor does it deal with the prohibition of building a monument to national significance. I don't insist on my own authority, I know how I feel about myself in this room. But I'm talking to the chairman right now, and I'm talking to Mr. Princely: please, you know, you've been approached by the public on this subject, and I've been approached by the public, and I've, in fact, submitted an alternative draft decision. Add two questions to your project: the first question for the Cabinet of Ministers is to immediately create the National Museum of Medieval City in the area of opening a monument in the Postal Square. That's the first one. And secondly, add another option to prohibit any construction work in the area of Postal Square and adjacent areas where objects of historical and cultural heritage were discovered before Kabmin met the requirements of paragraph 1 of this decision. That is, by the time the National Monument was completed, by the time the museum was created. If this is not done, the decision will be the same as that of the Kiev City Council. Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u89	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u90	If this is not done, there is a high probability that it will be the same story as it was on the Kiev City Council, that we will make a decision that will have a beautiful name and be very well-spoiled, but with no large account will affect anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, the authors convinced me that there would be no discussion on this decision, that we would move immediately to a vote. Can we vote now, colleagues? I put in a series of suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then give me a ring. Then please, Mikola Knieżicki, give me a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the authors of the decree don't mind adding to my colleague Lehchenk the points that say "create a National Museum." In fact, I would say this: recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to create the National Museum of Medieval City in the area of opening a monument in the Postal Square in Kiev and to prohibit any construction work in the area of Postal Square and adjacent areas where there were objects of cultural heritage prior to the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers the conditions of paragraph 1. of the preceding paragraphs of the decree. Under the stenogram with these items the authors support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Fatherland, Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u94	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this draft decision. Because we must not allow the Kyiv of the cultural capital, which has a millennium of history, to be the most important in the territory of our nation of values, our cultural heritage, to have these territories brutally built. To grow in these areas, not our young Ukrainians who will study the history of Kiev and the history of Ancient Kiev, the history of Ukraine, but where new trading venues will be located, where new MAFIs will be found. Where Kyiv will be engulfed in advertising planes and will simply turn into a city to which tourists do not want to come. Clearly, then, this draft decision needs to be supported. Just as it is necessary to very clearly introduce restrictive measures to carry out construction work in the entire central part of the city, which is protected by UNESCO, which has the most important historical and cultural value for Ukraine. And I would ask that, in fact, such draft regulations and such decisions unite us. Although we realize that this draft decision is not mandatory. This is a recommendation. They can't do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it. But, at the same time, Parliament, although politically speaking, should express its position on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u95	From Self-Help, Irina Podowak is passing Sobolev, Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u96	I've already told you in this room that this will be one of the decisions that we're going to have to remember for a long time what we're going to be bragging about. We'll be old enough to come to Mail Square and say, "I helped create that museum." We've already explained that it's not just about the museum, it's actually part of the war for independence. Russia denies our story. Russia denies that Kiev was the center of a great state. And this museum, these excavations, this wonder of nature that Dnipro and Pozna gave us is undeniable evidence. You're going to get millions of people from around the world in the 21st and 12th centuries of Kiev, which it was, and it stayed that way. It is clear that corruption prevents the adoption of this decision at all levels: on the level of Kyivradya, where there are people who stand for it but cannot carry it out; on the level of the Supreme Council, where the interests of the former wealth of Yanukovich are supported by not one person. But most important is the people, the people of Kiev, the people of many cities in Ukraine, who understand the meaning of this vote. Self-help will give all the votes in favour. And he asks a colleague to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u97	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u98	Vitaly Kurilo, Peter Dusty Block. Peter Prashenko's Block will support this decision, although we understand very well that this decree is more public. At the same time, as we have been observing the city of Kiev for the past 20 years, it is regrettable that the city of Kiev has lost its historical part as a whole. And there are not many places in Kiev that can be clearly linked to history. And the Post Office is one of the few places that can be linked to the ancient history of Kiev. So the preservation of the Below, the preservation of the Postal Area as a single complex, is very important both for today's generations and for future generations. Today, we have to stop loving buildings in this part of town, where only archaeologists can work, and historians can work there. And we should leave our offspring to our future generation, so I urge everyone to support this decision -- this is the first. And I urge Kiev to stop any construction on this site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u99	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lensky Alexei gives the word to Lozov Andrew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u100	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Undoubtedly, every patriot, everyone who loves the city of Kiev, must support this determination and do everything in his power to preserve ancient, great Kiev. Look at how since the 1990s, in the early 2000s, and just like today, a beautiful city called New Jerusalem in the world is just born with these candles of glass that put between the historical monuments that are actually destroying the city's cultural infrastructure. But, dear friends, in general, we need to talk about radical museum reform in Ukraine. I spoke to the director of the Odessa Art Museum, Alexander Roittburd, a great Ukrainian contemporary artist, today, and he tells stories about things that don't come to mind. For your information, dear friends who pay a scientific associate a museum, or a hall overseer an average of 3,000,700 dollars, to the director of the big museum a salary of 4,000,650 dollars is a disgrace. Because the state that saves museums in general is a state that degrades. And that's why our team of the Radical Party is demanding power immediately, and you haven't done it in 30 years, so come on. The country needs museum reform, first and foremost, to increase funding so that people have a normal salary and a change in staffing. So that you can understand what the current schedule is in the Ukrainian museums. No, they can't appoint me. Director of Development, they can't appoint a curator, but there is, think about it! – the carist, the film exhibitor, the fireman and the artist who paints the posters, it's a good thing there's no driver's duty on the horses. We have to radically change it and change it as quickly as possible. And most of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u101	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u102	The most important component of museum reform, in addition to increasing funding, changing staffing, is that the museum aims at efficiency. See how in Europe museums, which are owned by the local community, make money for the community, make money for the country. And another important point is the digitization of funds, the order in museums, and the order in the country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u103	Thank you. So, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, and then we're going to vote. In two minutes there will be a vote, I ask everyone to come to the hall, prepare for a decision. And now I'm giving the floor to the "People's Front" of Leonid Hamc and asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Leonid Yemetz, the People's Front faction. Those who do not remember history are forced to repeat their mistakes, and those who do not respect history are disgraced by the memory of their ancestors. Too heavy a price for our nation, our nation has been given our independence so that we can now build new trading centers on the site of our cultural heritage. Regrettably, Parliament is forced to raise this issue in a single legislative body, because apparently today neither executive nor local self - government is able to make decisions on its own, obviously coming out of some of its interests that are far from history, respect, self - respect. Therefore, the honourable deputies, the great request to us all, to take this decision now, to demonstrate to all the branches of our power and the executive, and to the local self-government that the position of the Ukrainian people, represented through the electoral body -- Parliament -- is that the Ukrainian heritage must be of fundamental value. The postal area must be preserved. And that has our clear position and the position of the People's Front faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u105	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I ask everyone out of bed to return to the hall and take up their jobs. This is an important principle of voting. And this is important not only for the Chinese, but for the whole country, it is important that our ancient Kiev be properly honored. And so that we can support the creation of a museum in the Postal Square. Please, 30 seconds, Princess under the stenogram. Take up jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u106	So, the regulation that you know, under the transcript, I'm going to read: to fill in the options to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers and the Kyiv City Administration to create the National Museum of the Middle Ages City Centre in the area of opening a monument in Kiev's Postal Square and to prohibit any construction work if such works are not directly related to the security of this object (under technical law), in the area of Postal Square and adjacent areas where objects of historical and cultural heritage have been detected until the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine fulfils the requirements of paragraph 1 of this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u107	Thank you. So let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Order on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev, No. 8541. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote, and I ask you to support 8541 as a whole. We support our history, we support ancient Kiev. Vote, colleagues, please back up, vote! [[11:31:39]] For 294 294-yes. It's been decided. Colleagues, the next thing we know in the daytime is getting into the daytime session. Listen to me, colleagues, we're having an agrarian day. But two questions from the agrarian block are asked to be included in the afternoon so that after lunch we can look at them. These are just two questions: 8450 (they were listed in the agenda) and 8171, and 6688 are safe. It's a request to include in the agenda a decision so that we can take a full look at the agrarian policy cluster. Understand? It's the committee's request. We'll include it in the afternoon, we'll talk about it after lunch. It's accepted, isn't it? It's also suggested to include. Thank you. So I'm starting to read. First. I propose to include in the agenda and to adopt a decision the draft Law on Consumer Information on Foods (the Bakumenka People's Deputy Bill) (8450). So please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making today. Please vote, please support the agrarian committee. Vote. [[11:33:15.]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. Next. Draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (draft by the People’s Deputy of Bakumenca) (No.8171). It's also a day-to-day session for decision-making today. Please vote, please support. [[11:33:48]] For 232 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, is a request from the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next is a proposal from the Security Committee: a day-to-day session to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to counter national security threats in the information sphere (No.6688). Ask the committee to put the day session in order for the decision to be made. Please vote, please support. [[11:34:36]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Attention! There's no motive. Guys, I just got here. (a) The head of the Peter Prashenko faction, he asked for a 6424 bill, which we did not receive yesterday because of the misunderstanding -- multi-housing houses. I'm offering to put the day session in order to make a decision. It's just, if there's no objection, getting into the agenda of the day session to make decision 6424-d. Please vote, please support. Please support, multi-room houses -- yesterday's bill -- the committee prepared it for the first time. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:35:34]] For 246 Decision taken. Next, 7390, which we came to yesterday, started to review it, reported Yatzenka, and we were short a few minutes -- to finish it, 7390, colleagues, get your bearings. We reached him yesterday, and there is a request that he be included in the agenda for the decision-making session, 7390. Vote who supports, please vote 7390. The name of the law, Yatzenko, say the name of the law. Turn on the mic to Jacenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the point here is that today, in fact, we're stopping the skyscraper: the Black market -- out of 6,000 people, 2.5 thousand, Chercasioblanergo, others. So today we're actually killing a branch. And what are we going to do for a few more months when people don't get paid? So we have to accept this immediately, we have one session week left, so it's a big request to support it, because people are behind us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u109	Thank you. So 7390. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making, please vote. [[11:37:09]] For 234 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the last offer from the People's Front is smuggling, that's criminalizing smuggling, the number. We put him in yesterday. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] 8543. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm offering one faction at a time. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll be right there. 8343 is the criminalization of smuggling, the inclusion of a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:37:55]] For-157. The decision is not made. So, colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! To be fair, I'm going to make the same offer from each faction. From Fatherland is 8369: the service of local self-government. Who's to put in the agenda? [[B in m in s a l in]] But we will not be able to see everything today. We won't be able to see everything today. All right, just getting into the agenda of the day session. 8369 is a day-to-day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 8369 session. Vote. [[11:39:45]] For 211 Again. Thus, 8369 is the service of local self - government, the inclusion of the day - to - day session. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Don't argue with me. Please support the ministry in the local authorities. [[11:40:22]] For 225 I'll put the third time 8369 in the agenda. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please support and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:40:46]] For 215 The voices are shrinking. Colleagues, come on, colleagues, let's stop the consumption. More Radical Party, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u110	Order establishing the Ministry of Prompolitics (8359).
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u111	8359 Radical Party. Order on the creation of the Ministry of Prompolitics, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Yes, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The one who supports it, vote. Please be supportive. [[11:41:25]] For 222 I'll do 8359 again. I'll bet another time. Please be supportive. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:41:49]] For 234 Decision taken. And last of all, colleagues. From the Cabinet of Ministers, 8490 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the enforcement of the rights of members of criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation (8490). This is the last one, it's a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote, please support 8490. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:38]] For 206 I'll do it again, just like all the other laws. This is the final law, I would stress. I'm going to re-supply to include in the agenda of the 8490 session. Please vote. Please support the 8490 inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. It's a Cabinet bill, so-called "mask show stop." Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. Please be supportive. [[11:43:24]] For 244 I said it was the last decision. So, colleagues, I said this was the last vote. Let's stop, fellows. Now we have a question for the Central Election Commission. We have to start it by 12 o'clock. So, colleagues, on the day-to-day basis, the question of the Central Election Commission is the question. But before I go to that question, I want the factions that came to me yesterday to be able to express their position. And I give the floor to each faction one minute to exchange my thoughts. First, Peter Dusty Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Arthur Gerasimov, CBC, your position. Prepare, then the People's Front, then the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u112	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Peter Prashenko faction believes that the question of updating the Central Electoral Commission is not just mature, but mature. And we must do so today, as planned, as we do in the daytime, to resolve the matter. Therefore, we urge all our colleagues to unite and support us today to give a very important signal to society that from the very next day the updated composition of the Central Electoral Commission will be able to form and begin to carry out its duties. So the faction of Peter Dustenka supports the consideration of this issue, will vote in favour of this issue, and will call on everyone to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u113	Thank you. From the Opposition Block? No speech available. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u114	The Central Election Commission had to change three years ago, as provided for by the Constitution and the laws. But because of President Dustenk's desire to manage the CVA manually, the Constitution has not yet been implemented. We're in favour of changing the composition of the CLTC, but we firmly oppose that the new composition of the CLTC of 10 of the 15 new members be controlled by President Poshenko, because we have to go and win honestly instead of forging elections. In order to win honestly, you need to restore order in the country and raise people’s incomes, wages, and people’s support. And when President Poroshenko wants to get the CTC and draw the results of the election, you don't have to spend billions, you have to draw in the President's Office. That is why we demand that President Prashenko fulfil his constitutional duty to submit to the new composition of the CLTC, which will represent all the political parties represented in Parliament, and where there will be no monopoly on power on the new composition of the CLTC, so that people will have fair elections, not falsified.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u115	From Fatherland? Let's get from Rebirth, Bondar. Then from. Okay. Let's just say who did. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the Rebirth Party also claims that we believe that the composition of the CLTC should be represented entirely by all the political parties represented in Parliament. And it has to be represented primarily by opposition parties and groups that are here. And this is a normal situation, and in a normal country, people who aren't going to forge elections are doing everything they can to make the Central Election Commission as widely represented as possible by all political parties. Today, the authorities are trying to make a monopoly in the CLTC, which means that counterfeiting is being prepared. If you're against falsifications, if you're democratic, as you say, parties, I think you understand that we should give the CLTC maximum authority to all political parties present in Parliament. We have already seen your approach to committee formation in the Supreme Council, when the opposition has not received any committees, deputies and today is forced, even to question the order of the day, to come to you and to swear urgent questions to the people. So we need to distribute proportionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u117	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u118	Therefore, we demand that representation be given proportionately to all the political parties present in this Parliament and, above all, to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Papiev of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters! What is happening right now is lacmus paper on the basis of democracy and Europeanism of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially its leadership. I would like to remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the amendment to the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe of 18 January this year. Mr. Head, I'd like you to know her. Where it is clearly and clearly stated in imperative form that the CEC should have representatives of all political parties represented in Parliament, all political factions. If you do not want to implement the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, take a breath of air, take courage and say so directly. The Opposition Block will not participate in this vote and this farce. Because I'm showing you a letter from the Opposition Block, we've submitted our nominations to the President of Ukraine in due time today, none of our candidates are on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u121	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u122	n/ a.k.a. Moreover, the law does not provide for a competition. How can 13 candidates be nominated? That's a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u123	Thank you. I just want to remind Papiev that the Head of the Supreme Council is not the subject of submission. So take a deep breath and read the Rules, which are the subject of submission. So, colleagues, now from Fatherland Sobolev Sergei, then the People's Front. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, our position is quite clear. Why is the Central Election Commission chosen? For elections to be fair, open, and transparent. The very mechanism in which the Central Electoral Commission is being formed is dishonest, opaque, and undiscovered. That is why the President of the country must fulfil his constitutional obligations: implement the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and make 13 nominations, where all parties represented in Parliament will be represented. This will be fair, this will be open, and this will enable the Central Election Commission to form, in accordance with constitutional principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u125	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, this is a very important decision that we are looking forward to not the first year of updating the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. In view of the fact that next year we are going to the election of both the President and the Parliament, it is entirely the responsibility of Parliament and the President to enter with an updated composition of the CBC. But I want to remind you that today I've listened to the speeches of my colleagues from the opposition factions, and we hear that there are no votes in favour of joining this bill and considering this issue. And that would be like a political adventure: getting into a C.V.C.C., without having a clear structure, which will be the next composition of an updated C.V.C. Because there's 14 candidates for 13 positions, but the decision of the profile committee that everybody's up to, please tell me, which one of them is the only one? So I think we can't start this adventure today, so we have to keep it in line with the Paris recommendations, which clearly states that there should be a clear representation of all political factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u127	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u128	You don't need an ovation, you don't need an ovation, you don't drive, you don't cry in Europe, and you say there's no representation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u129	That's it, thank you. Self-help is Ruslan Sidorovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u130	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear session hall and distinguished Ukrainians, I would like to remind you that today's composition of the CLTC has long since exhausted its mandate. Four years, actually four years now, we can't update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. I want to remind you who's leading it, who's leading the Central Election Commission for today, the person who's suspected of corruption in the Party of Regions' "chamber books." It's a shame that we can't update this warehouse until now. The Self-Help faction has consistently called for an update of the Central Electoral Commission as a guarantee of one of the possible elements of fair elections. We are obliged to do so, and we are obliged to do so today, this is the President’s second submission. I want to remind you once again that in order for the Central Electoral Commission to be authorized, not all 13 should be chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u131	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u132	And we are obliged to do so today. The renewal of the Central Electoral Commission is what the Ukrainian people and our electorate are waiting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u133	So, colleagues, now a lineup, one minute, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we have just heard a lot of thoughts that something in the President's statement doesn't respond to anything and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask and urge you not to translate from a sick person's head into a healthy person, please. The president of Ukraine submitted an application for an update to the CTC more than a year ago, with no votes cast by the national MPs. Then it was changed and given again. We believe that nothing today prevents us from taking this impeccable step towards updating the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u135	Thank you. So, colleagues, I was really approached yesterday by a series of factions' heads with the fact that they won't take the vote today. This puts it at great risk, the formation of CFCs. If we take down the old composition of the CBC during the voting and consideration, and we don't choose the new one, it will bring us into a collapse of the legal state, the whole Ukrainian state. So I want to put to the rating vote the question of whether or not to join the Central Electoral Commission. And I want the factions to be identified. If there are no votes, this question will be dismissed, it cannot now enter into the debate. Although I'm deeply convinced that we can't get into new elections with the old C.V.C.C. And that's my principle position. So I'm asking the rating vote the question: who's in favour of entering into the review of the Central Electoral Commission Update Order, please vote, please specify the factions. [[11:56:06]] For-189 189-yes. We see that there are no votes for us to consider. And that's the question. By faction, include, by faction: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 117, "National Front" – 10, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "self-help" – 17, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 1, "Will of the People" – 9, "Party of Rebirth" – 0. So, colleagues, we can't go into this question right now and I very much ask you right now, colleagues, very briefly in five minutes to vote on the issue of our schedule for the next plenary fall. That's a lot. It's the next question of order of the day, it's very short. I'm asking everyone to mobilize and support him. So the next question is the draft decree on the calendar plan for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (8504). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Calendar plan, colleagues, you've all been familiar with him, you've met him. That's the next question. [[11:57:24]] For 219 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. You've all been given documents in advance, you've all seen them, the calendar plan for the next session. We need to confirm while there's mobilization in the hall. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u136	Colleagues, draft Decree 8504 on the calendar plan for the ninth session of the Supreme Council, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 83rd Constitution, the 10th and 19th Rules and taking into account the holidays and non-working days defined in the 73rd Labour Code, as well as the schedule for the holding of the next sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, held from 8 to 12 October 2018 and from 21 to 25 January 2019. It is scheduled to start on September 4, 2018, to finish on January 25, 2019. And on January 18th, announce the closing time of the session. Nine weeks of plenary meetings are planned, seven weeks of committee work, five weeks of electoral work, nine hours of questions to the government. The project was sent to all MPs and groups and to the Governing Body of the Supreme Council to consider and make proposals. Taking all the proposals into account, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Decree 8504 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u137	Thank you, colleagues. I was told that all questions were settled. But Maria Ionova just said there's a warning. Let's say "two-for-two-to" against it to say the warnings that are there. So, from Peter Prashenko's Block, the clone of Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u138	Please pass it to Masha Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u139	Please, Maria Ionova. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I am very sorry, but we have noted that the Parliamentary Committee of the Association between Ukraine and the European Parliament will take place on a working week from 17 to 21 September. We would very much like to move this sessional week from 24th to 28th, please. Because we're going back to Brussels with four national deputies. The Ukrainian Parliament will not be properly represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u141	Thank you. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u142	The People's Front is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u143	Thank you. [[Applause]] Paul, Paul Pinzenik, Paul Pinzenik, offered Mary Jonah what comments would you make on this matter? Maria Ionov has just voiced a suggestion that the international delegation could move the week. What will be yours in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u144	Colleagues, this proposal on behalf of the committee cannot be commented on, because the committee did not consider it, in the judgment of the hall, of course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u145	It's about September of the month, as I understand what's being proposed, say the right thing: from which to move to. Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, we can move the sessional week from 17th to 21st, let's move from September 10th to September 14th to work for two weeks and then work on the committees and go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u147	Colleagues, pay attention! Such suggestions are discussed at the committee level. At the committee level, it was supposed to form. We'll still be able to change the order. Now, I think we're going to vote in favour of the committee, and then, if necessary, we're going to adjust. We just can't find the votes for anything right now. [[Noise Nodes]] So, colleagues, I'm now making a basic proposal, which was submitted by the committee. I put to the vote a draft decree on the calendar plan for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the 8th call (No. 8504) and in general. Please be supportive. We'll be able to make corrections later, in the same September. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:02:19]] For 257 Decision taken. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I would like to inform you that a draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws has already been prepared and distributed on certain issues of debt to enterprises in the defence and industrial complex (6697). The camera is now handing out a table in the hall. This bill is in order of the day, we just didn't start it until the MPs got the table on their hands. Now we have the opportunity to consider this important bill. I'm asking everyone, especially the right-wing authors, now the camera's handing out a table, there's not much right-hander to pick up and get to know. It's a small law, and there's not much law. Please give me some copies for Fatherland, Self-Help, People's Will, too. But before I went into the agenda, I got statements from two factions: the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Will. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I give the floor to Arthur Gerasimov's head of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u149	Oleg, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u150	Please, 3 minutes, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u151	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! As you know, the President of Ukraine fully supports the renewal of the composition of the Central Electoral Commission and has done everything in accordance with the Constitution of Ukrainian legislation to make this happen. The Peter Dustenka faction unanimously supported the consideration of this issue and repeatedly demanded that this issue be considered in this room. The Ukrainian people have been awaiting this decision for years. The public is constantly demanding an update of the CLTC. But what happened in this session hall made it clear who was behind the reforms and who was against it. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, we demand that we return immediately to the question of updating the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Before this issue is resolved effectively, we believe that the Supreme Council has no moral right to consider any other bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u152	Thank you, colleagues. I want to make two choices about this. Let's exchange thoughts on how to move forward. I'll let all the factions. I ask you to exchange your thoughts for a minute so that we know how to proceed. So 1 minute to the heads of factions. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I appeal to all the factions' heads, especially our coalition colleagues -- the BPT factions -- to continue the plenary session today and to consider the issue of the agenda. Let's move on. It's just that maybe they didn't hear me. And I said again, in order to update the CVA, which is essential to everyone, the whole country and there's a social request, because we're entering the election campaign and the presidential and parliamentary elections, and it's going to be done, it's going to take 13 deputies, 13 candidates, 13 seats. Continue consultations so that all factions and groups are represented. So there's not even any hint of usurpation of the members, the number of members of the CLTC in one hand. So instead of leaving the hall, we have to stay here and make a deal with everyone. And so that the CEC can be formed according to all democratic European principles. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u154	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u155	I would like to remind you that our colleagues from parieux made a statement that the updated cvc should be representing all factions and MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that no one would then say from a large number of airs that elections are illegal, that they are undemocratic. The People's Front will be at the heart of a free democratic election and the CWC should have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u156	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u157	The honourable coalition, in times of war, in times of difficult economic hardships for people to get out of the hall and not work in the hall, is an incredible irresponsibility. You can't share a place in the CBC. Gather around and share. The CEC needs a country, the CEC needs people to at least have the basic confidence that their voices will not be falsified. So go back to the hall and work here to build the Ukrainian statehood, not to play with the mouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u158	Opposition Block, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! You know, it's a historic day. Because the way the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now operating now confirms that common sense has won, that we have finally felt that Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic, that for us European values are not sounds, and that's how it works. And that is why today I am grateful to all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 18 January this year, which specifically concerns Ukraine, where it is clearly and clearly stated that all factions of the Council of Europe should be represented in the CFR in proportion to their number. The Opposition Block is grateful to you and invites everyone to work on the bills that the people of Ukraine are looking forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u160	From the Radical Party, Zarzko, then from Fatherland, Krulko. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u161	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to say that the Radical Party in its entirety supports the need to update the KPC. But we also want to point out that for three years, the authorities themselves have been delaying the process of changing the Central Electoral Commission. For three years now, the Radical Party has been saying that it is necessary to upgrade the entire composition of the members of the CLTC. But we stress that this needs to be done in a constitutional way. It requires that members of all the political forces represented in Parliament be represented. I also completely disagree that we have no moral right to consider any other bill. Under the walls of Parliament, miners demand the adoption of Bill 8362 – people have nothing to eat. There are representatives of all the regions of Ukraine where there are mines, such as Donetsk, Lugansk, Volinsk, Lvivsk, and other areas. Please tell these people you don't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u162	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u163	That you have no moral right to consider this bill. The Radical Party requires 8362 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, when I first saw President Prashenko's Order to Honor the Hendov Prize, I have questions about who is supporting today's composition of the CIA. When I hear this hysteria today from part of the BBC faction, because it's worthy of anyone to understand the important issues that need further consideration, they're left in the session room, and I understand why this is hysterical. I think that Poshenko and his team need to be freed not only from this room, but also from the Bank's offices, and then there'll be order in the country, and then we'll make an order quickly. And then there will be no trade in prizes with Ohendowski and other salesmen who actually supported Yanukovich. So I think the situation is very simple and specific: President, put 13 candidates into 13 vacant positions, and immediately hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u166	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u167	And immediately the hall will decide in 30 seconds. So I think it's up to the President today, he's in the hands of CBC formation, like he's had all four years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u168	Thank you. In view of the situation and the exercise of my right, my colleagues and I invite the heads and representatives of factions to the meeting to my office for a meeting. And I'm calling it a 15-minute break. So, faction heads, if there's no faction head in the room now, a faction representative, I'd like to invite you to my meeting right now. And I'm calling it a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, please make some announcements. Dear colleagues, please make some announcements. First. The House Management Council is now continuing, and two factions, Fatherland and Self-Help, have filed an application for a 30-minute recess. That's why we're continuing to have a meeting. And I'm announcing the adjournment of the morning session, because there's no wish for these factions to be replaced by a statement right now. We work, political consultations continue. And I'm calling it a 16-hour break, up to 16 hours. The morning plenary session is closed. Because we still have a 30-minute break from two factions. And at 16 o'clock, we're all waiting in the session room to continue our work. Thank you.
