ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, prepare for registration, please. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for registration. So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:05:26]] 367 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session is open. I immediately received a statement from two factions who were ready to replace them with a statement from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to the presentation by Alexander Shevchenk, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! The ideology of the Russian world, the fifth column of the FSB, began to move on in Ukraine. to advance in Ukraine before the war. It was the first element of preparation for a hybrid war against us, against the citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities: Ukrainians, Russians, Crimean Tatars, Bulgarians, Jews, Romanians and all others, those who lived in peace and harmony on our Ukrainian land. The idea of the "Russian world" of Kremlin leadership is now based on its own. It is based on its subversive invasion of Ukraine. This ideology has already claimed tens of thousands of lives. On the eastern fronts, many ethnic Russians, along with Ukrainians, are protecting Ukraine from the hateful "Russian world" built in Russian FSB laboratories. The ideology of the "Russian world" behind beautiful necklaces is the ideology of great state chauvinism, imperialism, the ideology of Nazism, strife and hatred. Interestingly, for days the very fact that I registered with the Supreme Council of Bill 9139 on the condemnation and prohibition of the ideology of "Russian peace" in Ukraine has provoked propaganda. On the propagandist state channel "Russia 1" true hysteria. The ideology of Russian peace in Ukraine must be banned. It only brings suffering to all the inhabitants of Ukraine. The Russians, who are fellow citizens and who consider Ukraine their Fatherland, will not be disfellowshipped. After Maidan 13-14 years, the preachers of "Russian peace" were disorganized and went, as they say, underground. But today they are bold and raise their head again. In particular, we are witnessing the political renaissance of the godfather Putin. Its earnings in the monopoly market for cremated gas in Ukraine are also used for the diversification of ideological work in Ukraine. Preachers of "Russian peace" are already dreaming of political rematch. I am convinced that Russian fascism in Ukraine will not pass. The imperial politics of the Russian world is breaking its rotten teeth against Ukraine and the Ukrainians. We, the deputies of the Supreme Council, must put a foot in the path of Russian chauvinism and cut out that cancerous tumor of Russian peace. I also call on you, Mr. President Peter Poroshenko and Mr. Andri Parubay, to unite you, honourable deputies, to adopt Act No. 9139 as the prime minister, to include you in the agenda and to vote today. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine! Glory be to her protectors!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, during the day, I'm going to ask the machine to make a decision, and during the day, I'm going to put it in the agenda. Over the course of the day, I'm going to suggest that the hall be placed in the order of the day session. Please, one minute, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, completely sharing those warnings that are now being made. With which the Ukrainian National Deputies, colleagues, spoke, I still have to remind myself of the rules of chapter 9 of the Rules of Conduct on Discipline and Ethics in the Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 51 prohibits national MPs from taking up meetings and using posters, slogans, and loudspeakers during plenary sessions. And in fact, I think that one of the most important European traditions that distinguishes Ukrainian parliamentarians from the "Russian world" is respect for the historic premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have just appeared from the rostrum, asking for the posters that the rostrum is now hanging, and this does not correspond to the European tradition to treat the historic space, please take it away. And if there is such a desire, I will take them to my storage as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking them to take a break at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u5	So, colleagues, I'm underlining that I heard you and I said that during the day I would make an offer to include in the agenda of the day session 9139. At the same time, I ask you to make a request that has just been made. And I'm very sorry that on this responsible day, we're starting with this imbalance. I would like to point out, colleagues, that today we have a very responsible agenda for the day's session. I would like to point out that we have the first draft of the Act amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And today, too, there is a long-awaited block of laws that deal with issues of Ukrainian language. At the same time, colleagues, I would like to inform you that a decision was made yesterday by the Committee on the continuation of the law on the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, and we will be able to look at them today. And this is our international commitment, and this is our question that will allow us to continue sanctions against Russia. And I call everyone to peace, order. And I urge everyone to do systematic and planned work. So we start with the first question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's the second reading, it doesn't need a vote for a separate procedure, No. 9036. And I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of John Winnick. Please, Mr. John, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows! I, by the way, personally support the ban on the ideology of Russian peace, because I think this ideology is totally immoral, based on. on the basic and basic principles of human dignity, using religious institutions for the purpose of, in fact, carrying out aggressive actions with the application of both military and humanitarian forms of aggression, manifestations of different forms of hybrid war, with the capture of territories, the killing of civilians. Clearly, then, this ideology, at the same time as other criminal ideologies that already have historical, and signs, must be given proper status. Regarding the comments that are now being made by the speaker of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubay, on the status of the Committee on Safety and Defence with a defined agenda, I would like to report that the committee meeting that began yesterday has lasted until today. And today we had enough deputies, we got a quorum, and we made the right decisions. In fact, the session is closed today and all submissions necessary for the Supreme Council to consider the bills that are now in the agenda will be submitted to the Supreme Council's apparatus and handed out to the people's deputies on time. By the way, I can't help but inform everyone about the status of the decisions of the committee which have essentially advisory status, according to the Constitutional Court's findings on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine. And in fact, based on this fact, the Supreme Council certainly has the right to take a stand on its own motion under any bill, only to take a known position on the committee. By the way, when we speak separately about urgent bills, namely the bill on the special order of local self-government in certain areas, introduced by the President as urgent, this allows the Speaker of the Supreme Council to deviate from individual positions of the Rules and to vote in favour of the support of the session room properly for the availability of an appropriate number of votes in favour of the relevant status of the decision. Turning to the agenda, Bill 9036 is a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine again as an urgent one, proposed by the President of Ukraine to amend the statutes of the Armed Forces and implement the greetings "Glory to Ukraine! - A hero's glory!" It's like a basic greeting during the service. At the suggestion of colleagues during the interview for the first reading and adoption of the first reading order, the proposal was to include amendments to the Ukrainian National Police Act and to extend these greeting proposals to "Glory to Ukraine!" - A hero's glory!" Also in order to carry out the service in the National Police Departments. We've done it, we've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u7	Please, how long does it take? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u8	We got 44 state checks on 3.10.2018, up to 3.10, which I have a corresponding memo from the committee's expert who was working on. Two of these are fully counted, five are partially counted, 36 are edited, and one is actually rejected. Most of the rights that have been taken into account editorially relate to the issue of excluding the term "community" from any greeting and leaving only "ma'am", "ma'am", when referring to military personnel, and in this case, those who serve in the National Police. So if you don't mind, let's just move along and let's quickly, if you don't mind, support this absolutely appropriate idea in context, by the way, of resistance to Russian peace, particularly as a basis. in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u9	So, colleagues, you remember, the logic of transferring to second reading was to expand the use of the greeting "Glory to Ukraine!" and other sections of the security sector. And the committee was able to do this job, and now we're going to do it. I'm asking the right-wing authors and whoever wants to perform by raising their hands, I'm going to call the right-number. So 2a. Don't insist. Third. A shepherd. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u10	In general, by supporting this amendment, I want to inform the Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich! - I'd like to inform you about the information the secretary of our committee just gave us. He reported that yesterday a meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence had begun where a decision had been made to support the so - called special status law. Against this, I want to inform the entire country and the people's deputies, including the Head of the Supreme Council, that there weren't enough deputies yesterday for the quorum to start a committee meeting, and it didn't start. And it can't be. continue until this morning and make decisions here. In advance, I'm informing you that the self-help deputies did not participate in this committee, where there was an attempt to legalize the amnesty for the fighters who killed our military personnel. There was no committee meeting today, because the committee members had not been informed of such a meeting, of its convening, of the agenda, and, more so, no vote. I don't insist on voting for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u11	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u12	With all due respect to the reporter, I would like to express my firm objection to the quotations that came from my appeal to the Supreme Council. I actually reported that the meeting started yesterday, and it lasted until today. Indeed, the quorum appeared necessary this morning, and the appropriate decisions were taken by written vote passed on to the Supreme Council apparatus. Anyone who wishes can look at the results: 10 persons, the quorum was. And as for the subject of the committee's consideration, I would also like to strongly deny that we have not considered a single bill that would provide for an amnesty for fighters. So let us still follow in our speeches the content of the legislative acts that we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Four. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u14	I want to thank my colleagues at the Defense Committee for their cooperation. It's very important that we really threw out the Soviet call "community." I want to point out that in our right hand of view, we also offered to follow the historic glorious path of the Ukrainian rebel army and to introduce the "community," I'm sorry, "sir" and "friend," for example, in the Ukrainian rebel army, the "maid-in-command" was often referred to, in no way in violation of the military hierarchy and in line with our military traditions. We would ask Parliament to fully support this proposal. Military historians, including the volunteers with whom we consulted, believe that this will be worthy of the continuation of the traditions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u15	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u16	We, by the way, on the committee also had a broad discussion about the proposals you made. And we're actually seeing historical examples of a call to a "friend" soldier. At the same time, in modern Ukrainian, this word has a slightly different etymological meaning, and in support of this idea, we have decided to put this discussion into a separate bill and follow the proposals of both the President and the text contained in the Committee's proposals for second reading. But we firmly agree that this issue needs to be examined in detail. And if you're going to suggest, on the next committee, we can even create a working group and all of the people who want to do it here, by the way, quite a lot, because most of the editorial rights just apply to excluding "friends" and adding "friends." We're just going to get involved in this group and let's work together in the long term how do we interpret this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u17	Thank you. But the authors insist that it be taken into account not only partially but fully. So I'm voting for 4 Sobolev, Shepherd and Semenchenka, which is part of the committee, the authors insist that it be taken into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:22:01]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 9th. 10th. 11th. 12th. 13th. 14th. 15th. 16th. 17th. 18th. 19th. 20th. 22nd. 25th. 26th. 28th. 30th. 32nd. What's that? 32nd. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u18	My colleagues, I'd like to take your attention again. We are, indeed, making an important historic, military, patriotic step, introducing the greeting of "Glory to Ukraine," without the Soviet call of "community." It's a good Ukrainian word, but it's stained by the Soviet Union and the traditions that we need to move away from. At the same time, we propose to consider returning from the time of the Ukrainian rebel army to "friend" for office. I am grateful to the members of the Committee for their understanding, for their support. It is good that we can be like - minded here, and I am sure that this decision must be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u19	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u20	Thank you to the Self-Help faction for the position and support of these initiatives. Here's something. Of course, we need to go back to the importance of this draft legislative act, especially in the context of the speeches that took place at the beginning of our plenary session today in the context of the destruction of Soviet traditions, the denial of any manifestations of modern forms of "Russian peace." And so, of course, the departure from the Soviet tradition of welcoming the Armed Forces of Ukraine and introducing, in fact, the Ukrainian historical tradition of greeting, is no less important than the development of both the moral spirit of the Ukrainian military and the development of technology and the increase in financial security and the issue of social protection and housing. Because all of these things make our army strong, because it is our army that is the primary guarantor of Ukrainian independence, sovereignty, the integrity of our state. And certainly not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u21	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u22	Let me finish. Without a powerful army, no country can be successful either in diplomacy or in the economy or unfortunately in energy security. Because today, and the paradigm and the order of the day, which is imposed by the aggressive politics of the Russian Federation not only in Ukraine, but also in the world, is based on a platform of aggressive politics and the armed forces that Putin uses in any matter that concerns him personally, not even the citizens of the Russian Federation. It is very sad that appropriate powerful information anchors are being formed, which form an entirely deceptive Russian nation, which is beginning to pursue aggressive policies not only in terms of Ukraine. We see victims in Syria, we see chemical attacks in Britain, we see interference with insolence in elections in the United States. We realize clearly that this policy of interfering with foreign policy by applying hybrid forms of informational risks, informationistic propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u23	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u24	It destroys world peace today, it kills citizens, it kills people's souls. So, certainly, especially with the development of the army, I hope that we will pay attention today to the information security of a state that is in no way regulated at the level of legislation. And what we're going to do today will be a certain hand measure, but that's the only thing he can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u25	Thank you. The authors insist on voting, right? No, don't insist, okay. Okay. 33rd. 34th. 36th. 37th. 38th. Fellows who are still insisting on the work, raise your hand, please, who insists on the work. 42nd. 43rd. 44th Denial of Oksana Bilozer. Mrs. Oksana! Oksana Bilozer. 44 readjustment rejected. Don't you insist? Then please comment on 44 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u26	I would like to explain why this important amendment has been rejected. It's actually a greeting for "Glory to Ukraine! - A hero's glory!" Similarly, to implement the Ukrainian Law on Legal Status and Respect for the Remembrance of the Fighters for Ukraine's Independence in the 20th Century, by the way, adopted by the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, where we refer to the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army and compare their status to any fighter for Ukraine's independence, including veterans of the anti-terrorist operation, with veterans of the United Forces operation and any volunteer citizen who, at the invitation of the will, began to protect our country. We did not consider this because it is a requirement of the Rules. Regrettably, the legislative acts under consideration by the Committee on Safety and Defence traditionally fall under the appropriate attacks of individual subjects in the Supreme Council who work for the daytime order they receive from the Russian Federation from the Kremlin and try to make every effort to find them invalid, invalid, illegal, and in violation of the Rules. So, of course, such an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u28	Which, in my opinion, not only strengthens our Ukrainian army, but is also part of the humanitarian security of our nation, introducing Ukrainian traditions into the Ukrainian army, it will certainly become a prime example or subject, an object of the Fifth Column attack, which will receive instructions from the Kremlin that they should do in the session room. I am convinced that appropriate references may be made to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, with great respect for the Supreme Council Rules, we have rejected this amendment while supporting the ideology of this amendment. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u29	All of it. Thank you. And, colleagues, it's just a closing statement. It's Teteruk Andry, isn't it? 1 minute Teteruk and then we'll have the closing word and we'll go to the vote. There will be a vote in a few minutes, so I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u30	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I'm calling on my fellow MPs to get everyone back to their jobs right now and we've voted in favour of this very important bill, and we've started today with a positive vote. Because there are many challenges facing us that Ukrainian society is looking forward to. And for all of these challenges, we have to give the right positive answer. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill and adjust to quality, productive work during today's working day. Thank you all for the working atmosphere. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u31	Thank you. So John Winnick, the closing word, the coworkers. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. Final word -- and we're going to the vote. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u32	You know, as I continue my previous speech and motivate everyone in the session room to unite around this bill, I can't help but recall the words of the lier of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, Maria Zacharov, when she was upset by the next post in Facebook that Ukraine, in her view, stressed, introduced some, in her view, Nazi slogans. We had to ask Maria Zacharov to remind the committee that the flag of the army of Vlasova -- the modern Russian tricolour -- hangs, hangs and majors over the Kremlin's spire in the Red Square. And somehow it doesn't really bother Maria Zachariah in any way. Although the crimes of the Russian Liberation Army are known worldwide under the leadership of Vlasov, which were committed in relation to the people of the Soviet Union of their time and, in particular, Ukraine. So this reaction of the Russian, Moscow cliques says that Ukraine is on the right track. And the unity in the hall today will clearly show that Ukraine is set to win the war in full, in the defensive war that we are forced to wage today, as part of the aggression of the Russian Federation. We will liberate our territories and demand adequate compensation and reparations from the Russian Federation. Let's vote on the second reading, as a whole, in the drafting of the committee with technical legal rights. Unity will show the attitude of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to victory over Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u33	Thank you. So, colleagues, we can move on to making decisions. You're voting here, aren't you? Everyone please take up their jobs. Please turn around. So, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, please return to the session room. In 30 seconds, an extremely important vote will take place in favour of a bill amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And it's obviously going to be the best gift of the Ukrainian Parliament until the day of Ukraine's defenders. Please return to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u35	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare, I think this is a responsible vote that will be a sign for everyone. I want to thank the committee that did a very systematic job, and we have a unified and systematic law. Please, Mr. Sergei. So, colleagues, can we vote? I want to. I am voting on the draft Act amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (No. 9036) as proposed by the Committee on second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Carefully, we vote responsibly. [[10:35:00]] For 271 271. The law is passed. Welcome to the Armed Forces of Ukraine! I welcome the National Police and all of Ukraine back to the historic welcome to the Ukrainian military tradition of "Glory to Ukraine". That we're back to calling the military "sir." And I think it's an important, symbolic act and the very important symbolic action of the Ukrainian Parliament. Congratulations, fellows! Now we have a statement from two factions: Self-help and Motherland. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you three minutes Sergio Soboljeva. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u36	Sobolje, Fatherland. We are now discussing very important patriotic issues. The question that has just been declared by an absolute majority of the hall is very important. The next issue that will settle is those issues that have not been settled for so many decades in an independent Ukraine. But I don't care. Against the background of patriotic issues, the information that was given by the central channels of Ukraine, not by the channels of Medvedczuk and Russian, was somehow quietly and calmly, but by the central Ukrainian channels, that, unfortunately, the President of Ukraine continued to pay taxes on the Russian budget. And the President and Roschen's response that the last shipments were only in the first half of 2017 is just confirmation that as long as the country is fighting a Russian aggressor for four years, we have poor entrepreneurs who continue to pay taxes to the Russian budget. Money still being used by the Russian budget to support the Russian occupying army. But that is not all. Yesterday's information, which was announced by the Self-Help faction, and no reaction in the country. Consider this: the second official of the External Intelligence Service, Mr. Semochko, according to journalists who showed Russian passports to him and his entire family. A person appointed by the President of the country to manage external intelligence is a citizen of the Russian Federation. Who Appointed Him? Putin? Janukovic did so openly by appointing a defence minister, the head of the Russian Civil Security Service. What is going on in the country? How long is this going to take? You can cover yourself with patriotic laws, you can cover up with patriotic slogans only as humane politics, how can such a blood business continue in the country? We demand that these facts be investigated immediately and that the President's Impeachment Act be approved so that it is incomparable to him and to all others, always bear in mind that both Parliament and society are on guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, they are very insistently asking the national MPs to read their statements about the vote. The first one from Bolkov. Statement: Please list my vote for Bill 9036. And the second from Evlakhov is the same thing: counting my vote as Bill 9036. I've announced this publicly to make your position known to society. And there came to me a second turn from two factions to a break, but they're ready to switch to the performance, from the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Front faction. And he's invited to Irina Heratchenko's performance. Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I, by the way, would like to support Mr. Kozemyakin's sincere colleague of the Fatherland, who also refers to those people who, by demonstrating here the principles of "Russian peace" rather than European practice, have suspended the premises, the historical, the Parliament's posters. Once again, we ask you to take off your posters, and all the smart people here read the bill, not the cry. Now let me give you three minutes so I can do it on behalf of two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u39	Please turn on 3 minutes first.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u40	turn to your esteemed colleagues. Dear thinkers and no less expensive opponents! Just a year ago in this room, we were intimidated by President Dustenk's opponents and the apologists, the opponents of the Minsk negotiating process by the fact that if we voted in favour of the Prolongation of the Law on Local Self-Government of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, tomorrow we will be sitting in Parliament in Giva, Motorola, Zaharchenko. If there is a parliament in hell, they sit there and wait for their dealer Putin. And in fact, I would very much like all of us, honourable colleagues, to be very responsible and never lie to our dear Ukrainian citizens when we discuss such sensitive subjects. I want to state with absolute responsibility to all the Ukrainians that the pain of the upset and humiliated Russians was more than that after the Ukrainian Parliament made this responsible decision, we have never seen it in Minsk. Because this mosquito dreamt that we would tear this vote down under the patriotic slogans and thereby give the friends of Putin in the European Union the reason to break the sanctions. Once again, I would like to thank those factions of Parliament and non-frustrational deputies who then refused to do so. And ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the promotion of local self-government in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas by 31 December 2019, as proposed by President Poroshenko. Dear Ukrainians, all those who tell you that there is an amnesty rule in this law for warriors, are lying because there is a separate amnesty law in the political bloc of the Minsk Treaties, but it is another law and today Parliament is not considering it. What's more, any law, or amnesties, to which, by the way, there will never be murderers, rapists, those who have captured our Ukrainians, those who have beaten Boeing, because it's impossible because they're war crimes, and they'll be responsible for their crimes. But when we even talk about implementing any law that applies to today's occupied Donbas, it's going to be possible under three conditions: the first is the occupation of Donbas, the second is the demilitarization of Donbas, the third is the disarmament of Donbas. And if you ask me, is it possible now without the introduction of a peacekeeping mission with a broad mandate of a temporary international administration, I'll tell you no. And that is why today, when we appeal to our colleagues and opponents with the request that we be in a European difficult discussion, let us be emotional, but put the law on the agenda and put it to the vote. I want to address you again, my dears, this law is not against Ukraine, it's a law against the Russian Federation, because it's a law of sanctions. Let's not give Russia a chance to skip sanctions with Ukrainian hands. Because Russia hasn't done "Minsk" in a day, it's true, but the Minsk Accords are working.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u41	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u42	But the Minsk Accords work because they are tied to sanctions, and Russia is already paying for these sanctions. One last example. We just came back from New York, where each country's contribution to the UN is calculated from its economic growth and GDP. Russia, which paid 25 million contributions yesterday, today is less than 10 million, because poverty goes there and Russia pays for its President Putin's adventure, for the war in Ukraine. Let them pay even more. I'm asking you to come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u43	Thank you. So, colleagues, at the request of two factions, I'm going to make a proposal that draft Laws 9153 and 9153-1 were included in the agenda for decision-making. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite all the deputies to the Hall. So now I'm going to make a proposal for a court-martial to include in the agenda a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. And I want to stress, really, it's the law. This is a law on the continuation of sanctions, this is a law that will allow international co-operation to continue sanctions against Russia. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs now and get ready for the vote. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. You all know how responsible the vote is, and also everyone knows how important this vote is and how important it is to mobilize our international efforts in the sanctions regime against Russia, and last year we demonstrated it, we have made it possible to hold sanctions against Russia firmly over the course of the year. So, colleagues, I hope we can make a responsible decision. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a decision on the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (Nos.9153 and 9153-1). Please vote everyone, please support everyone, colleagues. Vote responsibly! Vote! Please back up, fellows! Vote. Please maintain the order of the day for making a decision now. [[10:46:54]] For 247 Decision taken. And we're moving on to draft Laws 9153 and 9153-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Stop, stop. Show by factions, show by factions. Showed, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u44	109 – "Block of Petra Poshenko", "National Front" – 69, "Block of Opposition" – 34, "Samomach" – 0, Radical Party – 0, "Fatherland" – 0, "Will of the people" – 9, "Rebirth" – 10, non-fractional – 16. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's vote, colleagues, for short, please. [[10:47:47:47]] For 207 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President-in-Office of Ukraine for the peaceful settlement of the conflict in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor, for all those who maintain the agenda of this bill, and once again I would like to point out that it is completely technical. We are not voting with you right now for the body of the law that we passed in September and March 2015. Moreover, this law cannot enter into force until the Russian army, the Russian mercenaries, the Russian forces are removed from Donbassus until the international administration under the auspices of the International Blue Helmets Mission. But we have to prolong the operation of this law just to strengthen the negotiating positions of Ukrainian diplomats, our friends in the European Union. In fact, in the European Union, and this is not a secret to you, there are today a number of countries that are making up a serious zone of risk and are advocating the lifting of sanctions against the Russian Federation, in their coalition agreements this is recorded. And they're just waiting to say, this is how Ukraine doesn't do the political bloc of the Minsk Treaties. Guys, you and I have done everything. And we will continue to be very clear about the political diplomatic way of settling Russia's war on Donbass, but because of the reinforcement of our army. Now it's just a completely technical prolongation of the operation of the law, which also won't work if the Russian Federation doesn't take steps to implement the safe, humanitarian, economic bloc of the Minsk Accords. And the last. You know, none of you here will be able to give up an inch of Ukrainian land in Minsk during these difficult negotiations. As Leonid Kuchma said, it is true that these are very difficult negotiations, after which we must leave for a few days, but they need to be conducted in order to liberate Ukrainian land and Ukrainians. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank Leonid Kuchmi for having worked hard enough these years in difficult conditions, often getting criticized at a time when the queues are actually, you know, something.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u47	Thank you. My colleagues, I thank you very much, by the way, everyone (and the opponents now here of this bill) for demonstrating the political culture and simply debate on the content of the bill. And I ask the Chamber to take a responsible state position and vote in favour of prolonging the law by December 31, 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u48	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Out of the way. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u49	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now there's a lot of beautiful villages talking about this law, yes, but it's actually an honest lie. Let's start with who it's advantageous or unfavourable. You said Russia was very afraid of this law. If Russia is afraid of this law, why did you only manage to include it in the agenda with the voices of the "Environment", the Party of Regions, (directly speaking, Moscow agents) now? Without their voices, he would not even be included in the agenda. This is the reality of how Russia seems to be afraid of this law. In fact, she needs him very much. Because this law, in fact, meets Russia's requirements for the federalization of Ukraine. I'm not going to say a lot of general terms, as some speakers here say, I'm just going to quote what's written in this law. Yes: "Article 3. The State guarantees in accordance with the law against criminal persecution, criminal prosecution, administrative responsibility and punishment of persons who participate in events in the territory of Donetské, Luhanské region." I mean, amnesty for the terrorists who are killing our boys right now. "Article 9. In the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, the decision of the city, village, village councils is the formation of national militias." Moreover, these national militias can be created only from the locals who live in the area of the area where they live. So completely uncontrollable military formations that were created by separatists and Russian, essentially mercenaries. "Article 5. In certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, the laws of Ukraine set out a special order for the identification of the governing bodies of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts, which provides for the participation of local self-government authorities in the resolution of these issues." So once again, separatists will appoint their prosecutors and their judges. Federalization. Article 8 allows for a direct relationship with Russia in a separate area of Donetsk, Luhansk region without Kiev. Article 7 tells us that this is a responsibility to finance Kiev, and it is not possible to cut back on funding. And article 5 says that the powers of the deputies of the local councils and officials elected in the successive elections appointed by the Supreme Council by this law cannot be suspended for a period of time. That is, if they act against Ukraine, they can't even be re-elected. Please let me finish for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u50	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u51	That's what I just quoted -- quote! - that law you're proposing, which you're proposing to continue for another year. And I'm now addressing the Ukrainian people, our television audiences and radio audiences, and I'm addressing those few dozen normal deputies in this room: don't give in to this outright lie. Reality is written on paper, the reality is that this was just voted for by the Party of Regions, and everything else, it's just a lie that always sounds in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u52	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please hold the recording. So the record is specified, but now I'm giving a report to the committee, and then I'm giving the performances in the sequence that they're enrolled in. Please, from the committee, Vinick John, representative of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u53	Colleagues, in order to understand what's going on right now, have to explain and understand, realize one big thing: any country, the state will be strong when it's strong in at least four terms. It's a military component, it's a diplomatic political component, it's informational and it's economic. The bill that we are currently considering is about giving Ukrainian diplomacy appropriate weapons so that our state is strong in diplomatic and political terms. Because when the Russian Federation is at war with Ukraine, the world's most aggressive army and, in some studies, the world's second strongest army, of course, the parity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's not enough to free our territories. The Russian Federation occupied Donbas under the pretext of protecting the Russian-speaking population, allowing the Russian-speaking population into the political process. We understand it's all fairy tales, it's propaganda, because in the freed territories of Mariupoli, Kramatorski, Slovenian, Severodonetski, there were elections to local self-government, citizens chose who they thought was necessary. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the tragic events of September 14th after the treacherous invasion of a regular Russian army into Ukraine, we lost many, hundreds of our soldiers, our brothers, our sisters, our men. We will always remember the Ilowayian feat of the Ukrainian army. At the same time, we had to agree to the Minsk Accords, the Minsk Protocols, in view of, inter alia, the completely absent military position of the Budapest Memorandum signatories, who assured Ukraine of the inviolability, the territorial integrity. At the same time, one of the signatories, the Russian Federation, carried out an act of armed aggression. Thus, hybrid warfare can be conquered exclusively by hybrid means. What are we doing now?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u54	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u55	What are we doing with you now? We continue with the validity of the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self-Government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. The existence of a valid legislative act with such a name is a marker for our Western partners that Ukraine is committed to a diplomatic and political process of peaceful settlement with the aim of liberating territories from Russian aggressors. The law is not in effect, and it will not begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u56	Well, Ivan, I'll let you continue. Next Burbak of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine introduced a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the continuation of the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. From our Western partners, we have heard enough assurances that the prolongation of this law is an important tool to continue and increase the consolidated international pressure on the Kremlin. I stress that the continuation and strengthening of Western and Ukrainian sanctions against Moscow today is a key, most realistic and effective means of forcing an aggressor to peace. And your representatives at all the meetings with Western partners say, "Go ahead with the sanctions, we need sanctions to stop the aggressor." When are you sincere? When do you not vote in favour of this bill or when you demand that our Western partners continue to be sanctioned? Likewise, I would like to remind you that, with the active support of the People's Front in January this year, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Specialities of State Policy, which provided for Ukraine's State Sovereignty in the Temporaryly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Luhansk Areas, which clearly defined Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine on Donbassa and Crimea. Donbas and Crimea are occupied. Russia is an aggressor who is fully and unconditionally responsible for armed aggression and the occupation of part of Ukrainian territory. And it must also be a clear and consistent message from Ukraine to the international community! The Kremlin summit is fully responsible for violating all peace agreements, for tens of thousands of murdered and mutilated Ukrainians, for kidnapping and torture, for violence and thievery, and other international criminal crimes! I would like to point out that the prolongation of the law does not remove the full responsibility of aggression and occupation from Russia. The Kremlin is wriggling and looking for any way to get out of international pressure. Not continuing the law will play on the hands of the Kremlin and those in the world who seek to accuse the victim, not the aggressor. At the same time, I would like to remind you that any final decisions on peace agreements and special status can only be adopted here by the Supreme Council. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u58	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u59	And only if the Ukrainian people have the will to do it. This is a requirement of the Constitution. The guarantees of our independence and security are Ukrainian will and strong Ukrainian troops. The adoption of this law is a very difficult decision to make in cooperation with our Western colleagues. Ukraine adheres to its word, and our Western partners must keep their obligations. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Welcome to "Fatherland" Lucen Igor Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u61	Dear Ukrainian people, first of all, I'm addressing ordinary citizens and I want to explain what's going on right now. Now the moment of truth has come in the Supreme Council. The moment it becomes obvious to everyone who is a facade patriot who glues to the poster "Mouth. Army. Church. Faith," and who's a real patriot. Now we're going to see, we're already looking at the alliance between the President's faction and the Opposition Block, which have merged at one time to give what? And to give local self-government to the non-terrorists who are now killing our soldiers in the East, to give this so-called self-government to the Russian invaders in fact. Because what does this law provide? Listen, Mr. President, I'll explain to you again what you're about to vote for. Before we get control of the border, we are offered to hold local elections. What are the choices under this sauce, please tell me, are you voting for it? What are you doing now? And these elections will legalize their judges, their so-called militia, their so-called prosecutors, their so-called courts. This will be controlled by terrorists and an aggressor, Russia. That's us. We create the Russian Federation there by this law. So please, I ask all patriots to concentrate now and not vote in favour of this law. The Fatherland faction votes against. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u62	From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u63	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction has never voted in parliament for this disgrace, which is now being pushed by the Kremlin-occupational bloc along with its allies. There will be a time of truth in which the whole country will see, not a party of peace, but a party of war, because Minsk has brought no day of war. Peace. He's the one who's prolonging the war. Tell me, for the Ukrainian military, what good has the stillborn child of international diplomacy that you are swinging in Minsk brought to the Ukrainian military? None! Nothing but a blood business. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška has consistently acted against this bill. What's more, we're drawing the attention of the Ukrainian nation to what's going to happen here by voting: we're going to merge and we're going to demonstrate the unity of the prokremian forces. Anyone who press the button for this law will vote with the Kremlin occupying block. He will vote for the continuation of the war on Donbas, for the killing of Ukrainians, for the amnesty of murderers, for the courts to be there. And finally, one question. Even if you're hypothetically talking about Minsk and you're saying that they're canceling the sanctions, I have one question: why don't you just keep quiet about what the pseudos are doing? So Putin, you don't order puppets, you bend yourself. Shame on the plebeim who will vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u64	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Speaker, the honourable audience, our faction immediately supported the signing of the mine protocol and we believe that this was a very important and responsible decision. The law proposed today is an integral part of this protocol, an integral part of it, and must be adopted and continued. This is our position, because we think, we understand that it doesn't work. We understand that in order for him to work, there is a need for changes to the Constitution that do not exist. But we support this law because it gives Ukraine a chance for peace. It is the hope of peace for the whole state, the diplomatic way of resolving the conflict that the entire population of Ukraine today sees as the main solution for the country. Moreover, I would like to stress once again the position of our faction, which we have repeatedly expressed. We believe that in order to bring the territory and people back to the country, we need to have direct negotiations with all the conflicting parties, not to hide behind the media, to go out honestly and officially in order to bring peace back to the state. If today’s authorities fear for their ratings, we are ready to take on this work to return territory and people to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u66	From Self-Help, please, Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u67	Dear Ukrainians, you have the opportunity now to finally see the masks cast in this hall, who have joined themselves in that momentum to allow Russia to continue the war, to further seize our territory, to continue amnesty for those who have killed our boys. What, then, is the truth, and what is the lie? You were promised and told that Russia was grieving. Read Lavrov's statements and all the fighters, they require Ukraine to continue its special status in order to be punished for killing our boys. That's what it's really about. The law provides a clear amnesty for all who have killed Ukrainians, for all who have seized our territory, for all who have abused our captives. But you forget that Ukraine is already being punished for this war. Today, hundreds of our military personnel are in prison, and they are now serving sentences for actions that may not have been done. Even if they did, with love for their country, they wanted revenge on those who murdered their friend, their brothers. And they really took that weapon and handed down that sentence, one that the Ukrainian court and the Ukrainian prosecutor's office couldn't bring. They are already serving their sentences with dignity. But the continuation of this status will allow not you, but the next Parliament, in which Medvedchuk will probably be with his coalition, on December 31st next year, to do everything to make that amnesty happen no longer with your hands, but today you hand it over to them. And for that, you will be held responsible in hell with Giwie and Motorola and all the rest of the sidekicks, and you will be their accomplices. Praise be to Ukraine to all Ukrainians and our heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u68	From Rebirth Group Valérie Pisarenko. From a place like this, Mr. Valérie? Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, looking at the results of recent sociological research, peace is still the first issue that people are concerned about today. And I was in Kharkiv yesterday, I was hosting citizens, and yet most of the people who come, even with their problems small, medium, large, still end up with one question: "What about Parliament and what will you do to make peace in Ukraine?".. I understand that not a lot of people can feel it on themselves, but there's a question to the deputies in the East and to the Supreme Council: "When are they going to work so as not to fight here in the session room, but to take real steps towards achieving peace?".. I realize it's not easy, we have a lot of hard decisions to make, but we still have to work here as the only team for such really serious decisions for our country. Our faction will support all issues that will enable peace in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u70	Thank you. And, colleagues, this is the closing statement from Irina Heratchenko's "Peter Dust Block." In two minutes, the vote will take place. I ask everyone to come into the hall, in two minutes there will be a decision on the matter. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to thank you for the debate today, despite the difficulty of this subject, in the framework of parliamentary rules. And you know, this is really a world-viewed discussion, because for me and for Peter Alexiovich's team, Dusty Donbas is not Giwie and Motorola. Donbas is Igor Kozlowski, Donbas is journalist Stanislaw Asiev, whom we have to release. Donbas is also Alexei Ryabchin, including Lubinets, our deputy, and all our colleagues who have become displaced because of the destructive actions of Putin. And it's these people who are the voice of Donbas, and it's these people who have to choose the new power of Donbas, not the "Gavi" and the "Motorolas." And obviously, the Amnesty Law is a completely different law. But even when the problem arises, the amnesty will be accepted by Ukrainian courts, not by armed bandits. And so it's really important that you know that in Minsk, what are the key achievements of Minsk? But this is a key achievement: stopping a large-scale attack and a full-scale war. The end is that today our boys are not being mobilized to the front, and there are military contractors working there today. I want to talk to all the Ukrainian women, to the mothers, and let you know that in 2014, the country split up into two teams: some washed their hands and beautifully stood with posters, and others dried up their sleeves and walked away. And we went to war, and there are those who stand with posters -- that's true. And those who work in Minsk today. Because this is our job to help Ukrainian diplomats. Once again, dear colleagues, it's a really difficult subject, it's really not perfect laws, and you want to know my opinion, we're going to have to go back to looking at their bodies. But then, when demilitarization takes place, the decomposition, when we get this Russian scarf out of there. All we're talking about right now is the terms we need for sanctions. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u72	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u73	No, I said. Once again, I want to thank everyone for their emotions, but constructive emotions. We all stand for peace, I thank you for voting together for the Ukrainian army. Let us vote today for instruments for Ukrainian diplomats and for Ukrainian friends in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (No.9153) at the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote 9153 as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:12:19]] For 245 Decision taken. Colleagues, please don't break up! Colleagues, pay attention! Please don't break up. I would now like to emphasise that I will now propose a draft regulation on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show by factions – what problems? Let's see the factions. I read: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 107, "National Front" – 62, "Block of Opposition" – 37, "Help" – 0, Radical Party – 0, "Fathership" – 0, "will of the people" – 10, "Rebirth" – 15, "non-fractional" – 14. I'm asking you to stay out of the hall, colleagues! I want to remind you that last week a petition came to the Supreme Council in an orderly fashion, which won 25,000 477 votes. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the petition was referred to me on a training committee, and in accordance with the Rules, the Committee decided to submit a draft Decision on the application of sanctions to two television companies for consideration by the Supreme Council. According to the Law. The statute for the second day after the committee's decision, we have this law to consider in the hall. And, colleagues, right now I'm going to ask you all to support this decision to be included in the agenda for the decision-making session. I would point out that this is a draft of the Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the Use of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions) (No.9157). This is the country's information security, my friends. I very much ask everyone to vote in a disciplined manner. I'm asking everyone to focus, now we all have to vote for the inclusion and consideration of this. the draft decision. I'm asking everyone to be very responsible! I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of the current draft Resolution on Approval of Proposals for the Application of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (No.9157). I'm asking for your support, please support, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote. Don't come out of the hall, please. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. [[11:14:57]] For 219 Apparently, not all colleagues were oriented. [[Noise Nodes]] It didn't work. I'll do it again. As soon as two people leave, call them back, colleagues. Call me. I'll put you to the vote again. Don't leave the room. I'm asking you to come back to the hall. I'll set it up again. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, come back to the hall. Why do MPs leave the hall? So, colleagues, come into the hall. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Information Security Regulation of our country (9157). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote, vote. This is the information security of the country, I ask you to support everyone, we have to do it under the Rules. [[11:16:03]] For 231 Decision taken. And we're moving on to Project Regulation 9157. I'd like to emphasize that. By factions, please show me. Peter Poshenko's Block – 106, People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 16, Father's Party – 7, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth – 0, non-fractional – 20. My colleagues, congratulations! This is an important decision and this law is important, the decision is important. And I'm asking you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the cut. [[11:16:54]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich of the Highlands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u75	Thank you, colleagues. As you all know, a petition to stop speaking to the pro-Russian TV channels has garnered thousands of votes on the Supreme Council website. In 2014, the enemy broke through our state borders, and now he's storming our inner borders -- the boundaries of our information space. Just as we protect our national sovereignty, we must protect ourselves from pro-Russian lies, manipulation and our sovereign information space. You'll be told that this decree is a suppression of freedom of speech. Freedom of speech, I recall, is the right of every Ukrainian citizen to have impartial, true and balanced information. This is not a indulgence for the pro-Russian television channels to destroy our state under the adage of Russian responsible comrades. This decree protects freedom of speech. By means of this determination, we return to this concept its very essence! Do we have the right to passivity? Do you have the right to be passive in this regard? As politicians, can you stay away from this decision? No, you can't. No, no, not again. Stop the gangrene of the Russian world in your power. Do not run away from the issue of pro-Russian propaganda. We must take political responsibility. We must, if no one in the country can take responsibility for itself as a parliament, as a higher legislative body, be able to see the sanctions on a number of pro-Russian television channels and adopt a responsible decision. Who doesn't vote for this motion right now shows that by using the information space, using the air of these channels, he's playing Russia's game of destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u77	In the destruction of our nation. Parliament's right to adopt difficult but necessary decisions. Now it's your right to consider. You can make a responsible decision, and we must protect our sovereign information space from the Russians. The truth will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u78	Thank you. John Vinnick is invited to the National Security and Defence Committee’s report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u79	Colleagues, something in the context of the Rules of Procedure. The Supreme Council is implementing the Citizens' Appeal Act. Article 223 p.m. 2 The Citizens' Appeal Act states that if a petition, a petition to the Supreme Council, has received 25,000 or more votes, it must be immediately, i.e. within a three-day period considered by the committee and immediately after the decision of the committee, perhaps with the proposal of the relevant legislative act being considered at the session. We, the national deputies, are certainly obliged to hear the desire of the Ukrainian people. That is why, today in this session hall, we are looking at a decree to refer to the National Security Council for the application of personal economic sanctions in relation to the activity of individual companies with limited responsibility, which are the owners of the emblem, the television emblems of the "112 Ukraine" channel and the NewsOne channel. With regard to the activities of these two subjects. I think there's no secret to anyone that Medvedchuk, a permanent representative of the Russian Federation in Ukraine de facto, controls today's functioning of Channel 112, is probably shaping its editorial policy. We understand that the journalistic composition of the channel does its job well, we understand that they are trying to uphold the ethical principle of the Ukrainian journalist. I cannot help but notice, for example, the work of leading Paul Kuzeyev, who, under extremely toxic conditions, interviewed Medvedczuk, did the most he could do, and really Ukraine saw the real nature, soul, and desire of the actor in Ukraine. But we are obliged to meet the requirements of the petition, to consider, to approve, the committee is proposing this formulation, and to send proposals to the National Security and Defence Council regarding the application of personal restrictive sanctions in relation to activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u80	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u81	In connection with the activities of NewsOne and 112 Ukraine. On NewsOne, I don't think we need to convince anyone. I'm not even going to count those completely ridiculous, absurd and provocative ones that are echoing from the speakers and, in fact, from the leaders of this channel, starting with the denial of Maidan Dignity, continuing to deny the fact of Russian armed aggression, the actually "darks" of the Kremlin about the so-called civil conflict are echoing or not in every sentence in the activity of this channel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u82	So the committee's asking for support. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. From the Radical Party, the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u83	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, from this rostrum, I would like to report on the censorship implemented by the authorities on the information channels. A specific example, a bill on the continuation of special status for Donbas has now been considered in Parliament. A vital bill that decides not only the fate of Donbas, the fate of the whole country, and the fate of peace in Ukraine. What did the First Channel of the Ukrainian Radio do? On my way back from the airport from Dnipropetrovsk, I was listening on the radio. The broadcast began, the head of parliament announced what was included in the agenda and a bill was being considered. We heard that on the radio. There was then a speech by Vice-Speaker Heratchenko, who told us what a good bill, and how he would give us the opportunity to restore peace. We also heard this on the radio and millions of our listeners. After the head of Parliament gave the floor to the co-author of another Levchenk's bill, the Ukrainian radio shuts down the broadcast, instead of the speech by a colleague of Levchenka, who was supposed to be heard by the citizens, includes journalist Vitaly Naumenko, who repeats everything Irina Gerashchenko said, that it is a purely technical bill, that he does not decide anything. But we really need him to continue the sanctions. And after that comes a broadcast of every whitebird. After that, the Ukrainian Radio includes a broadcast from the Supreme Council Hall when the head of Parliament places the vote and the results of the vote are fixed. Here is a real example of censorship — when Ukrainians are deprived of the right to know the truth. The law on special status for Donbas is a law imposed on Ukraine outside, a law that undermines the sovereignty, independence and integrity of Ukraine! And a government radio financed by taxpayers deprives Ukrainians of the right to know the truth. We protest censorship! We demand that state funding be stopped at the expense of the payers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u84	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u85	At the expense of taxpayers, this is actually financed by censorship. The Ukrainian authorities, led by Peter Dustenk, deny the right to know the truth about what is going on in the country and what the authorities are doing. We're demanding an end to funding. And we demand to stop censorship. And to deprive Ukrainians of the right to know the truth, we will not let anyone know. We are the voice of the truth and the voice of the Ukrainians in this rotten swamp.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u86	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, my last name has been mentioned and I'll take, with your permission, one minute on the line. I want to say and support the position of Parliamentary colleagues that voting on such important bills. My last name was on the line, and I took one minute on the line. I want to support colleagues that voting on such important bills that are of social importance. After all, we're going to appeal to journalists to pay attention. But at the same time, none of us can interfere with editorial policy. And certainly no one writes a plan of performances on the radio. Thank you. And please speak now to the honorary colleague, Mr. Kiral, who represents the self-help position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, distinguished national MP Opanasenko. He will. Excuse me, Opanasenko or Levchenko? Please, National Deputy Opanasenko, and then there'll be a Lewchenko lineup. I get it. Please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, each of us, I think, is constantly looking at the means of our information and asking if we have freedom of speech? To a certain extent, most of us answer this question with a yes: "Yes!".. But like everything in our country, it's kind of hybrid, yeah. If you look at it, in fact, all the media are doing either the demand or the printing of the stamps that are being programmed by their owners there and so on -- who is ordering music. You can agree with that, you can disagree, but this is the status quo in which the country is now at this moment of development and evolution. But we can't agree once in the Ukrainian media, where real beneficiaries hide behind a nominal service for some, there, or skiers, mechanics, or other incomprehensible persons who really don't own these assets, who only do nominal services when these media broadcast the press in a voice, in one voice in conjunction with the media of a country that has been killing Ukrainians for 4 years. To my clear belief that we, as a parliament, should make a political assessment, we must take that necessary step to work out sanctions against these legal persons. This is our position. I hope for a full vote on this, the approval of all the factions that were once members of the European Ukraine coalition. I would also like to remind you that there has now been a registered sanctions bill (No. 9116), which I hope is the same way our Supreme Council will vote it, which allows and requires us to synchronize all sanctions against Russia, against Russian companies, with our partners -- the United States, the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. During the previous speech, two names were mentioned not only in Heratchenko but also in Levchenko. Please, my colleague, Mr. Levchenk, our colleague on the line, and then we continue to perform from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Yes, indeed, I am now faced with many citizens' appeals that confirm this fact, which has just been sounded by Mr. Lášk, that the National Radio first button, so-called, unfortunately, justified its national name, "the liar" and really lied to the whole country. She ruled out mass broadcasts when national MPs, especially I personally, spoke the truth of the Ukrainian Federalization Act. And I think it's a quintension. This shows whether this law is good or bad for the country. If he was so good, why did he have to do an unprecedented thing in the last ten years and turn off a piece of discussion? If he's so good, if Ukraine needs him, if he's against the Kremlin, what did you turn off the radio for? And you turned it off because you didn't want all of Ukraine to hear the truth that it was a federalization, that it was the creation of separatist police, prosecutors, judges, that it was their direct connection to Russia. That's why you turned it off. But you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u92	We don't have a replica. And when I asked for a replica once, there's no such thing in the Rules. Show me the rule. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our discussion on this. I'm not "she," I'm the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "She" is not me. Please don't get confused. The draft Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the Use of Personal, Special, Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (sanctions) is now under discussion. And a representative of the People's Deputy from the Peter Prashenko Block of Tetjan Ritchkov is invited to the floor. Aunt Richkov, who represents the faction's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u93	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected people of Ukraine, and a petition on the Supreme Council website received 25,000 votes during the days. As a national deputy, I have received more than 100 appeals from soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, from their families and families of the families of the dead. I'm going to read one of these to you right now. A soldier of the Ukrainian Armed Forces wrote to me. "I am outraged by the fact that at a time when the military are protecting you, your families and your peaceful sleep, the honor and dignity of the defenders lie before the millions of audiences of the 112 channels and NewsOne channels throughout the country call us murderers. Three and a half thousand soldiers gave their lives for the preservation of Ukraine’s independence and more than 10,000 lost their health because of injuries. Is it not a sacrifice that is too great and is made daily to allow ordinary citizens to consume Russian lies? And then we're surprised that the veterans who were released to stock meet with such moods at their address as "I didn't send you there." I demand an adequate and proportionate response, within the framework of current legislation, to the bad propaganda of the enemy who, in the fifth year, owns my home land." Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you now as Captain of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, as the woman who lost her husband and the child lost her father. I was forced to join the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And so I ask you, not all those who declare themselves to be peaceable, but those who are truly peaceable, to vote and to uphold this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tetiano. And here's the invitation to Sergey Sobolev, who represents the position of the Fatherland faction. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction. We have a big request, please tell me, do we have a regulator that can stop any Russian propaganda in Ukraine? Yes. This is the National Council for Television and Radio. We have a law that sets the real owner of any media medium? There's a law. Please tell us why Kremlin propaganda continues to sound from Ukraine’s television channels. Why are drivers, cooks, and cable owners still shyly called? At the time of Janukovich and his escape from the country there were four channels controlled by the Yanukovich or Zakharchenka family as minister of internal affairs in the government of Yanukovich? Tell me, who are the owners of these four channels now? Who owns the Tonis Channel today that belonged to Janukovich's son? Who now owns the 112 channel that Zacharychenko owned through the middle structures? Who now owns the NewsOne channel that belonged directly to the Yanukovich family? Do we have an organ like the National Council on Television and Radio? Why do they not come to parliament and ask for help if they are forbidden by law? Our faction will vote in favour of this decision, but we demand an immediate report from the National Council on Television and Radio with what is happening in Ukraine's television area. It's the only way to put a dot, not in dirty affairs to buy Januković's channels at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u96	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u97	I'm done. At the time of the ban, when sanctions are in effect, when it was expressly forbidden to do so, I think it will be no less important act. And I would ask Parliament to call for a report from the National Council on Television and Radio with a specific list of channel owners, how have they been resold and who are they now belonging to? But we are voting in favour of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u98	Thank you. One minute of Oleg Lazko's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u99	I demand that law enforcement agencies investigate the facts of corruption, censorship in information space. The case that I cited when the Ukrainian National Radio Channel shuts down broadcasts during the review of a very important law on Donbas shows that under the cover of power in Ukraine there are large-scale facts, a whole programme of censorship, the removal of Ukrainians from the opportunity to hear and see the truth. This fight against freedom of speech, against the truth, against the right of Ukrainians to free information is led, coordinated, and directed by President Poroshenko himself. I do not believe that the media are doing this without agreeing with the President's Administration, denying the Ukrainians the right to freedom of speech, depriving the national MPs of their position from the very important issues of our country's future. It seems to me that there was no such censorship in Ukraine even under totalitarian regimes -- what is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u100	So, colleagues, now from non-factioning Chums, one minute. And then. Excuse me, then I'll give it to you. Chunk, one minute, then "The Opposition Block," I didn't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Information security must be one of the most important components of the nation’s security. The information space must be such that citizens feel both the balance of political thinking and at the same time feel no influence, the real influences of a foreign state, an enemy state that wants to rebuild the brain of Ukrainian citizens under their own thinking. I would like to tell you that, along with the need to keep very good hygiene in the information space, you really need to see that there is real censorship in the country. And I want to go to all the journalists, along with when you say that some channels are preachers of Russian peace, are preachers of Russian propaganda, you really have to say that there's censorship on your channels. The 5 channels, the premium channels, the Inter channels, the Ukrainian channels are the channels that you can't see at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u102	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u103	These are the channels that forbid any word to opposition politicians. It is also very and very bad, and it must be combated in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u104	From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko. Then from The People's Front, Teteruk, and that'll be the end, that'll be the end. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Unfortunately, today, we are witnessing a disgraceful phenomenon when the higher legislature -- the Ukrainian Parliament -- is involved in clear political divisions, persecution, and Parliament's hands are trying to destroy the media -- television channels. I would like to point out to my colleagues that since the beginning of this year, the number of attacks, beatings, physical injuries in journalists has increased by 20 percent compared to last year. I want to point out that for many years there have been no more investigations into the killings of Ukrainian journalists, such as Sheremet, Buzina. Instead of listening to the heads of law enforcement authorities, the Supreme Council is involved in the destruction of television channels. I am convinced that we are here, from this rostrum and in this room today should determine the reasons why journalists are being beaten, why the media are being bullied, and why is the country increasingly talking about the use of censorship and the destruction of freedom of speech as the foundation of a democratic country? Instead, if we adopt this decision today, we can simply turn into a savage country when the higher legislature is closing the channels when Parliament is closing the channels. I want to talk to colleagues who are the authors, particularly this decision: is there at least one decision of the National Council on. on the issue of television and radio talk that these channels threatened national security, is there at least one Ukrainian Security Service conduct on these television channels, or is there at least one court verdict on these television channels that abused national security or even threatened national security?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u106	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u107	No! No! There is no decision and there is no fact in the draft decree itself. This once again confirms that the decision is a clear political order, an attempt to clear the information space before the election from the unfavourable media. Sadly, this will also hurt the international image of our country. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge you to vote wisely: reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u108	And, colleagues, this is a closing statement from the People's Front, Andrew Teteruk. And I ask all the factions to invite deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! The issue that we're considering right now is extremely important because it concerns the aggression of the Russian Federation against our state. Where the Russian Federation, according to its President Putin's decision, failed to take over the territory because of opposition from the Ukrainian people, because thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainian volunteers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces had taken over our state and had not allowed them to take over our state, the tactics of the predatory enemy, the Russian Federation, had become more treacherous, they had begun to conquer the information space. And unfortunately, I have to say, here they're developing their success, we're not resisting it properly. The Ministry of Information Policy, which we have adopted by decision of this Parliament, is not effective enough. It was to develop an appropriate strategy to protect our nation’s information space. Unfortunately, we do not have an effective mechanism to protect television channels, media outlets, from the hostile influence of Russian propaganda. Why is it important to call Russian propaganda propaganda, not freedom of speech? Because Russian propaganda has nothing to do with freedom of speech. Not only in Ukraine, but our partners in the United States, in the European Union, in Britain, suffer from manipulative, totally hostile, primitive manipulations that are fueled by Russian propaganda. And I am very pleased that the initiators of this decision are the national MPs who came to Parliament, who are in Parliament in journalistic activities, namely Mustafa Naijem, and Svetlana Zaleschuk, and Sergey Visocsky, who reported, and Yegor Sobolev. So these are people who understand how freedom of speech can be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u110	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u111	using the role of freedom of speech, instilling daily in the information space of manipulation and lies. Therefore, we must make an important decision to protect our nation from daily hostile propaganda, manipulation, and substitution of the notion that there is no one, no simple principle of freedom of speech. Oh, more. For this expression of national MPs, certain owners of these television channels are openly starting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Colleagues, one minute, Mustafa, and I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Mustafa Najem. Please turn on the microphone. See if it's a card. It's okay, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would now like to address not even those who are now proposing this decision, but those authorities that control the media in the country. I'm against shutting down any TV channels in Ukraine, against shutting down any journalist's mouth. The only question I want to raise right now is with the National Security Service and the National Security Council. This does not apply to the question of parliament. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko is the head of this body, and this body allows these channels to work, accusing them of anti - state activities. Please let the Ukrainian Security Service provide evidence, go to the SNB and prove it. Parliament has to take responsibility for this issue, it's not our question, it's the SNB, the Ukrainian Security Service, Nitzbank, the government -- those who have, under the Sanctions Act, impose such sanctions, according to legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u114	Thank you. I want to explain, colleagues. That is the turning point. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a reference to the ORP so that the competent authorities can reach their conclusions, give their documents, and make a decision by the ORP. Because it's a matter of security. Please come into the hall. And, colleagues. When I was Secretary of the RNB, I emphasized that the key element of the hybrid war, Putin, was the information war. It's a war that's not in the territories, it's a war for the hearts and minds of people. And just like the occupied part of our territory, so is the occupied part of our information space. And we must protect the information space of our Ukraine. When our soldiers are called killers on the canals, it goes beyond the limits of national security. So I'm sure all patriots should support this decision. So I'm sure everyone should take their jobs right now and support the National Security and Defence Council. Information security is the number one issue of the security of our country's national state. And I would like to vote in favour of the draft Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the Use of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures, Sanctions (No. 9157) for the Proposal of the Committee on the Basis and Overall. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We vote, this is a matter of security for our information state. Please support, we vote. [[11:47:50]] For 229 It's been decided. Congratulations, colleagues. By factions, please, by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 98, National Front – 67, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth – 0, non-fractional – 22. Colleagues, now. Wait. Colleagues, I want to make an announcement now, but I want to report that we are now moving on to, to my belief, the most important issue, the draft of the Language Act in Ukraine. I would like to say that everyone will probably agree that we should consider the full procedure. Is everyone okay with that? Is that right? Yes, all the laws are complete so that every reporter can report. It'll take a little longer. But before we go into those laws, I would like to point out that in the morning there was a call for us to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on "Russian peace" that was announced. They just put the day’s session in order, because the committee can’t look until the day’s session is in order. And before I go to the Language Act, I would like to put a proposal to the vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill amending the Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and prohibiting the propaganda of their symbolism of the "Russian world" (9139). Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. It's just a turn-on. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:49:56]] For 221 Guys, I'll put it back on, I'll put it back on. I'll put it to the vote again. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[11:50:25]] For 213 Mr. Alexander, we can set up later. So, colleagues, now it's a message. Irina Heratschenko, message.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. It's important. This is a very important announcement. First, the National Deputys of Ukraine, Mrs. Victoria Ptashnik, called for the verdict that her card did not work "for" during the vote in favour of the draft Act amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Presidency was called upon by the Ukrainian national deputy, Igor Brichenko, to say that his card did not vote in favour of Bill 9153 concerning the extension of the features of local self-government in Donetsk, Lugansk. And two colleagues from the Radical Party of Láška, Andrew Lozova and Mrs. Zarzorko, who had not voted in favour of their card during the Resolution on Approval of Personal Sanctions, Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (9157). The bureau was also asked by colleagues that we had nonpersonal voting, and the bureau asked everyone to vote personally. And the Presidium calls on the poster authors to take away the poster during the break, because it doesn't fit European practice, to bring something too much into the hall, and to disrupt Parliament's historic premises in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u116	So, colleagues, we're going to draft the Language Act in Ukraine Nos. 5556, 5669, 5670 and 5670. I want to let you know we didn't cancel the break. That's why we're going to start the discussion. Then there'll be a break for half an hour and then we'll finish the discussion. I would also like to point out, colleagues, that we will report on all the bills. There will be separate voting under all the laws. And I'm asking everyone for a responsible discussion. I'm sure that's the key question for today. And I'm going to invite the authors of all four bills one at a time. By full procedure, we enter into this bill. And I invite you first before the speech of Ukrainian national deputy Lesjuk Jaroslav Vasilovich. Mr. Jaroslav, please. Microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u117	Good afternoon, gentlemen, colleagues, friends! First of all, I'd like to say that. No one should worry, and all those who opposed it and said that the time had not come, the time had really come. I hope, to some extent, I'm even sure that we're going to get out of this room by approving some draft in the first reading. And really, it's going to be the right thing to do. So you don't have to pick up. You don't need to panic that something won't happen. Everything will be fine if there's enough people in the room, of course. I want to say a few words about Bill 5556. First. The bill was made by me, and the main legal part was done by the academics Mikola, pardon, the academics Mikola, God, Chapwal. He, I don't know who was there with him, a few more doctors of his students' sciences and they did. So we agreed, we worked, we reworked three times, but basically, everything about reasoning was done by him. The other one. I apologize that we made some mistakes during the preparation of the law for registration: words were spoken, terminology was not completed, and so on. Third. What did we put ourselves as the basis for our approach: First, how does our law differ from that of others? We felt that we should not be divided into two laws, separate from the State Language Act and separate from other languages. I mean, we think that because it's in one article of Constitution 10, it's also written in general. and about the national language and languages of the national minorities, we need to do this together. This was our difference, including because of this practically this approach has a bill. What's "Freedom" number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u118	Yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u119	"Freedom"?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u120	5669.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u121	5669. We agree with them. And at that time, we were promised that there would be two bills in this room: one about the state language and the other, together we would adopt, and the other about the language of the Nazis. Then it was said that amendments to the laws on the rights of Nazis would be adopted and so on. So far, no. And we have come to the point that we are separately voting on the national language, a separate Act on State Language. The second one we've been betting on. I'm pretty sure we don't have to be open about funding right now. We are confident that no amount should go into this law. In this economic situation, it's completely unnecessary for them to tell us that they're telling us that they're spending that kind of money. That's different. The Ministry of Finance has determined that of all the bills, only our Bill 556 really does not need financial influence. Third. Third. We've written, we've written about the law as it should be, not written about how it's supposed to be. In our opinion, and we wrote this, the execution of the law is to be placed entirely on the Cabinet of Ministers. We don't think that's exactly the right approach. When we create, Parliament creates some kind of body that can create it itself. We have some opposition, on the one hand, the Supreme Council, social organizations and so on, and on the other hand, the state. State language is primarily a matter of the state. And that's what the state has to do. We have heard in this room, as the previous Head of the Supreme Council said, this is the Ukrainian Parliament. He's the head of the Cabinet of Ministers now. I think it's the Ukrainian government. We don't want anything to be separate. This work is primarily to be done by the State because of the government. Tell me, please, I will not rule out that in six months we will return, the control function of Parliament, if the government fails to do so, we will take further action. And then the language inspectors and all the other control organs will go. But I don't think we need to do that right now. I'm sure if we make the law clear and there's a second reading, maybe a third, we don't have to do it, a lot of people will come. We have to get out of this, that when the law is passed, all the leftovers that were previously in it are not going to be there. And we have the basic thing in the law, and what is the state language, how is it supposed to be? And in fact, we have to make clear the decision of the Constitutional Court and the decision of that. State language, unlike any other language. That's what our second article in our Constitution, chapter two, unfortunately, came up with the word "status." Regarding the status of languages in Ukraine, there is a national language, the languages of the Nazi minority, which is also, to some extent, the language of the indigenous peoples. And anything else that applies, we have to make it clear that the state language is all over Ukraine, it's functioning, and the state is providing it. This definition is one thing. And what we need to do is we need some transitions, we need to give someone more time to study, and so on, we need to conclude in the positions, in the Transitional Positions, how much time is spent on this. If that's the case, please tell me, do we need to start with language inspectors from different institutions right now? And who can't provide all of this, like the Cabinet of Ministers, Vice Prime Minister? Who better than the minister of education will not provide Ukrainian language at all levels, or the introduction of Ukrainian language. Whoever doesn't do it better than the minister of the interior is in charge of all the law enforcement agencies. Who better to do that than to do it in the army? Ladies and gentlemen, we have one thing to say. First of all, what is national language and how it should be. Then we're not going to have a situation where we're entering some of the state authorities, some of the highest authorities, and it's like we're turning the whole state into a divorce in the preparation of spies against Russia, or we can't call it that. And fourth, I want to say one thing. One more question is, why do I generally disagree and never agree with what's in Law 6970-d? This law is what was written, not plagiarism, of course, what was written in the Law on the Language of the Baltic Republics, which everyone has the right to education in the national language. Ladies, this is nonsense, this is nonsense to be thrown out, or you won't talk about it. Education in Ukraine, everyone has the right to education is a dot, and as we write further education in that language, and in some cases it can be the languages of the Nazis and so on, if you want it, and that's what we have to get out of the Constitution. As it may be written, there is no right word in the Constitution on the rights to Ukrainian language. The Constitution clearly states, and the Constitutional Court has explained this, in fact, roughly, this is an obligation. At a time when Ukraine was created as an independent state, especially when the Constitution was approved, its right to a language that the Ukrainians had advocated during the U.S.R.R., even before that king, and so on, it was overwhelmed by the creation of a state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u122	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u123	Ukrainian language is the responsibility of every Ukrainian citizen. Rights have Nazis, indigenous peoples, we don't need any rights, and when we say that, we create a wrong mentality in the people, we don't have any rights, this language, it is, without that language in principle, there is no state. So writing out what's not there is absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u124	Thank you. And, colleagues, three minutes is provided. Mr. Jaroslav, stay. Three minutes of questions. I'll continue for seven minutes. Shall we start with the questions? Let's do it then, colleagues. Then, colleagues, at 12:30 we start with questions to the first reporter. Mr. Jaroslav, please be in the hall at 12:30. And anyone who wants to ask questions will also be ready. And please, the next reporter will be Head Michael. And after three minutes of questions, I'll give you my word immediately. I would recommend that we speak in a more concise way, then we have more chances, then we'd be better off if you could put your position in a more concise way. It's a deal. I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I'm reminding you that we've entered into the draft law on language in Ukraine. And before the break, the first reporter, Lesyuk Jaroslav Vasilovich, completed the report, and now three minutes is the question-answer. Mr. Jaroslav, I invite you to the rostrum. Colleagues, please come into the hall and share in the discussion. So please record the question to the reporter. Anyone who intends to ask a question to the reporter, please register. Please. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u126	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I have this question for the rapporteur, because in fact, after studying a section of your bill, it is clear that the bill is intended to legalize virtually ambiguity through the consolidation of regional languages. How else can you treat your proposal if it is stated in article 6 that "in official communication with officials of public authorities, state institutions and so on within the autonomous Republic of Crimea, within villages, villages, cities defined by the Ukrainian Law, where the use of languages of indigenous peoples or national minorities of Ukraine is common - I pay attention! – in addition to the national language, the languages of these indigenous peoples or national minorities may be used." Explain to me what it is, how is it not actually the legalization of bilingualism in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u127	Well, thank you. I don't agree with you that this is legalization. So we're getting out of if you've read chapter III in us -- that's about the status of languages in Ukraine, right? – we believe that there are languages of national minorities, where the root languages are included, primarily Crimean Tatar languages. We think that Ukrainian is also the root language, but it's not a minority. And we're getting out of what's Crimea. I'm sorry! Crimean Autonomous Republic, right? – then it should be next to the Ukrainian language – this does not mean the same level, in some cases Crimean Tatar language is also used. And you see, unfortunately, we have it in the Constitution and you're not going anywhere, so unfortunately it is, a chapter like "in a place of compact residence." And it's gonna have to come back to that one day, but I did. That's not what we wanted. I told you this: There is a national language everywhere, and in some cases there may be the language of the Nazis or the indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u128	Thank you. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please. No, no. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u129	Dear reporter, today is a very important day -- we are looking at, at last, the Laws on State Language, different versions and so on, and this is very important for the state of Ukraine. I personally support Bill 5670. And I think it's overwhelming for our Parliament to have a consensus around one bill, not to try to stand up for different groups and things like that. There's a lot of criticism about your bill. Maybe you can find a question before Bill 5679-d. But do you not think that not wanting to find a single and constructive position can lead to a tragedy that parliament will not be able to make a historic decision? Do you realize your personal responsibility in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a really important law and it will be passed, and I need not be intimidated by consolidation or non-consolidation. We're going to go out the right way today. If you adopt the 70-d law that you support, yes, I'll take it quietly and try to keep working on the second reading, so to speak, there's nothing here. We don't understand just one thing, it's an absolutely democratic practice, how many bills there are -- they need to be defended. I stand up for my bill, and I have an observation for you, one, and I know what I have. I've got a lot of holes, mistakes and so on. But, you know, unlike that, we're getting out. I want to say it again, the law. You know, when you build a building, the main thing is the foundation. Because whatever beautiful walls you make, but if the foundation is weak, nothing will happen. That's what I'm talking about. I was saying, this is a violation of the foundation, the very phrase, "Every citizen of Ukraine has a right." Our right is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u131	30 seconds. Okay, thanks. And a final question. Ostrika's Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The bill has this rule: "The language of indigenous peoples and national minorities is used within a certain area." Thus, even GNEU points out that we view language not as an ethnic sign but as an territorial sign. And so I'd like to ask the authors, what are the reasons why you came out when you formulated that standard, because that leads to regionalization, disengagement of the state, disintegration of its individual territories, where you offer people living in different territories to speak different languages? For what reasons did you come out when you laid such a foundation for regionalization and disintegration of various parts of the territory of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u133	You know what? I literally don’t remember. Let's do the article, and we'll look at it. Do you mind? An article, and let's see what it says. I don't quite understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u135	Article. GNEU. Read the GNEU well, it's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u136	Question time's up, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Glaucoma Mikhail Josephovich. And, Mr. Michael, if only it could not be exhausted all the time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone's doing the same thing. I'm just calling the reporters. So we can do the mobilization and vote by noon. I appeal to all supporters to adopt the Language Law. We have to vote on it by noon, and we won't leave the hall until we make a decision. Until we make a decision in Ukrainian national language. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u137	Good afternoon. Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear colleagues, of course, finally, in 27 years of Ukrainian independence, Parliament matured to discuss and approve the Law on State Language, which unfortunately we have lost so much time. And we remember that, literally recently, in Ukraine, there was, as it were, the Koleschenka-Kivalova Act from 2012 to 18 years. I would like to remind you that, as none of us, the freemasons, who had just made a previous call from their initiative, registered a bill back in the 13th year, this language law, which we are now presenting, 5669. And our goal was to protect the Ukrainian language, to establish it, to really enable Ukrainians to speak their language and learn it, and to develop it here. We remember what happened when Putin Kiwalov-Keleshenko was in this session hall with the fights, and we were bending the opposition and approving this law, and then we went out on the speech platform. On this speech show was my friend, who was starving for 14 days, my brother and helper, the hero of the Heavenly 100th, Alexander Capinos. When we fought against the Party of Regions and against this law, many people may have criticized and condemned it, but we still had the basic requirement, which was the same in the Dignity Revolution as the requirement to repeal this Law "Cellstone-Kivalova," we just repealed that law on February 23, 14th, in the session hall. Sadly, though, at the time, the speaker of the Parliament, who served as President of the Republic of Turkey, did not sign it, did not enter into force. Then Freedom fought for four years for the task of the leader of Oleg Tsagnibok's party, collecting the signatures of the people's deputies, submitted them to the Constitutional Court. For four years we have defended and defended the right to still repeal this unworthy law, which, in violation of the constitutional way, was approved in Parliament, and we have succeeded, we have won. And today this law does not work or work. That's why we did it. And that's why we know very well the threats posed by the law of Koleschenka-Kivalova. To date, what are Ukrainian societies using, what is the national status of the Ukrainian language? This is the basic law of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10, this is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 99, and this is the European Charter of Regional Languages. That's why, in our law, which we've submitted today, and we're presenting, another one that was registered, I'm reminding you, in 2013, not only did the Freedoms participate in the drafting of this bill, but at the same time a faction of Strike and Fatherland. In this law, we, which is called "On the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language and the Order of Application of Other Languages in Ukraine," have set our main strategic goals. This is the approval of the Ukrainian language, its security as a national language. This is the approval of Ukrainian as a national language throughout Ukraine in all public spheres of social life, the definition of this law, and international communication in the exercise of official functions. We realize that our law, it's practically the best, but I understand that the situation in the room today is not easy. So all the adjustments, the suggestions, of course, we expect you to make them. But I would like to emphasize the greatest observation among the laws that are most praised today, this is the 5670 law of the MPs, which is completely different from the Swoboda law, which practically involves the functions and positions of the Kielczynka-Kivalova Law. This is exactly what I want to read, do we need a law that just makes the situation in Ukraine worse by the functioning of the Ukrainian language? Do we need a law that states that the status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language cannot be a basis for denying the language rights and needs of persons belonging to national minorities? Of course not. Do we need a law that. The way to study, not to study, I emphasize, is to teach in the languages of national minorities. Of course that's not necessary. Do we need a law that translates the languages of national minorities into media, into culture, and not into a city? the compact residence of Nazismites? Yes, Koleschenko is applauding you today because even he didn't realize that the so-called Keleščenka-Kivalova Law could only be spoken in the languages of the national minorities in their compact home. Do we need a law today that reinforces the parallel right to use national minority languages together with the national language in printed media, in books, in electronic, information systems and so on? Or do we need a law that brings into the legal field social twists such as "language acceptable to the parties," which is in this Law 5670-d, "consumer's speech" -- what is it that is completely nullifying the status of the state language. Of course you don't need it. Because we understand that this is a subversion to the functioning of the national Ukrainian language. Therefore, it is precisely the question of whether this law is needed today, which is being enforced, which is trying to marginalise Ukrainian language in the field of science, where learning and learning is being done in EU languages. I would like to point out that today Britain is coming out of the EU and English is not the EU. Now it turns out that in Zakarpata, Hungary's language of dissertation will be protected, in Bukovina it will be protected in Romanian that this introduction of practically Russian is the second national language. We are well aware that the war in the east had just begun, and it was Crimea that we lost because there was no Ukrainian language. Because that's where the enemy spoke. There is an ancient saying of the Romans, whose language is the authority. And we forgot that. We forgot the quote of Putin, which says that their borders end where their language ends. And today, unfortunately, under good terms, under the form of protection of Ukrainian, they try to introduce terms that even Koleschenka and Kiwalov had not yet dreamt of, in principle, the Putin agreement. Because that's not rhetorical questions, gentlemen. We must remember that Moscow is fighting a war to impose Russian peace on us with its Russian language, the Russian Church. That others -- Ukraine's former invaders on the western border -- are blocking our civilisation movement to Europe, trying to control part of Ukraine, handing out passports that are practically involved in Ukraine's internal affairs, demand that we not. We deprived our children of the right to learn Ukrainian. This is unacceptable! Clearly, we, gentlemen, need a law that will become a tool of conduct. We do not need a law that will be the instrument of hybrid warfare against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. So, of course, this law, which today 5670, which has a clear threat, threatens to impose upon us from the midst of the promotion of these norms, the standards for the harmony of Putin, on the occasion of our enemies who want to disengage us on a language issue, because language, faith, culture, the church is the foundation of the unity of the nation. And the more the nation is united, the more it is united, the stronger it is, the stronger it is, the better it is to stand up for all the threats that have come our way today. So, of course, I urge you to support our Freedom Bill, which was registered with other colleagues in the 13th year, by then by the faction of "AWOL", "Fatherhood", which supported that this is a key fundamental law that would protect the development of our Ukrainian language, because without the development of Ukrainian language, there cannot be a Ukrainian state, a Ukrainian nation. I want to point out that for a long time we were in occupation and did not have our own state. And the only thing that brought us together is our language. And today we are obliged as national electorates to do everything we can to establish our Ukrainian language so that our children can learn, learn Ukrainian in higher education, in schools so that it can be heard in society and protected from the threat of its destruction, which today is aimed at our enemies. So I strongly urge you to support ours. Our law, to support our proposals and to vote for us to finally have the Language Act and not live up to the old notions of Koleschenka-Kivalova, which we are once again trying to impose under another screen, under another envelope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to the National MP, Michael Golovka, who is now presenting his bill. Please, Mr. Baggins, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u139	Dear colleague Mikhail Josifovich, much of what you said impresses me personally. And I think that really, your bill is one of the best. But how do you feel that the authors of several of these bills would unite and make one single common normal bill that would be accepted would be a hall. Because, of course, people split up in the room, the national MPs split up with the idea that the bill should be voted on. And this creates the danger that none of them can be unacceptable and not get 226 votes. How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. Of course, what would be sad if no draft was passed, but I have a question back to you: would we need a bill that would further aggravate the status of the Ukrainian language for its protection or development? Do we need to adopt the law in good terms, but what is the purpose and purpose of the Law of Kivalova? What do we get out of this? So, of course, I'm against getting anything to go through with it. I think that if we do not have political will and society today will see who stands on which principles, of course, and will draw its conclusions. But then, of course, we work together, and we're ready to sit at the negotiating table, consult and share the touch. But I don't understand the notions that today, I'm sorry, are being introduced as "consumer demand speech." Is it that tomorrow anyone will come, say, speak to me because I'm a consumer, of any language? What's the concept of "party acceptance"? So we're demeaning the status of the state language. And that's what goes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Sir Michael. Next question from the people’s deputy Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u142	It's a very necessary law. Please give the floor to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u143	Please have a question from Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Michael, Oleg Musei, Sokalishte, Red Town. I would like first of all to thank your rightful initiative, your MP group from the Freedom Party, for the absolutely pro-Ukrainian and patriotic bill. It also consists of the previous reporter of a bill that fully supports the position of the Ukrainian language as one that protects Ukraine and Ukrainians from foreign influence. Please tell me how he has been in line with the Constitutional Court’s 1999 decision on language of study and language, for this is an extremely principled water division among all the bills. Let's be clear on which position to take. But People Control will certainly support your bill, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for asking. What I'm saying is that our bill was developed in the last term, you know, by our philosophers like Irina Farion, who worked in that law. And all these norms have been established that according to the Constitutional Court’s decision that only the language of learning should be necessarily Ukrainian, that is, it is not prohibited to study the languages of national minorities, as is the case throughout the world. You come to Poland, our children go, they learn Polish, not Ukrainian, Germany, England, and so on. Therefore, we do not deny the study of Nazismites. But in order to do that, first of all, we need to legislate and support our introduction of the "nationality" graph into the passport so that everyone can determine what kind of nationality he is. And then he has, as a representative of the Nazis, or a representative of the title nation, to say that I want to learn the language of my Nazi minority and so on. That is why we do not deny it, but we demand that there be training exclusively in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u146	Thank you. And that ran out of questions. Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. And to present Bill 5670, one of the co-authors of the bill, our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Irina Podoljak. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Indeed, today is a historic day and I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament will come out after the vote in the first reading of the bill on national language with dignity. I'm a co-author with a large number of members of the Supreme Council Bill 5670. But I'm not going to talk about this bill right now, and I'm going to talk about Bill 5670-d. I'm sure my colleague Knieżick will have something to add to this bill. Because we don't actually have a few bills of state language in the session room today, there's a bill on state language in our session room today, and it's the 5670-d bill. Because it is this bill that defines the use and application of Ukrainian as a national language in Ukraine, but all other language rights of different groups of people, indigenous peoples, national minorities, are contained in other laws of Ukraine that we do not cancel and that are implemented. Do you remember how the construction of the Tower of Babel ended? The construction of the Tower of Babel ended with its collapse. Yes, all the laws that place their object. Bills that regulate different languages, mixing both Ukrainian as national and indigenous languages, which I emphasize are four indigenous peoples in Ukraine, and Ukrainians are not indigenous peoples, because we are lucky to have our state, the indigenous peoples have no states, but they are historically living in the territory. This law alone considers the status and status of the Ukrainian language as a national language. The Ukrainian language is one of the indicators and one of the characteristics of the state sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. It is seen in this bill as the same symbol of Ukraine and its sovereignty as the Flag, as the Hymn, as the Constitution, as the unbreakable borders of our state. This concept was the basis of this bill, which we call 5670-d. Why are so many bills registered in this session hall? And it's registered because a huge part of the policy, unfortunately, is only interested in one piece of the bill, so that the real bill is not approved. In order to continue for many years from election to election to opportunity to speculate on this question. What is a good bill, 5670? Because he will be fulfilled. Because he offers us not the naked declarations and the beautiful words of love for the Ukrainian language, but he offers us the creation of institutions, mechanisms and procedures that should finally ensure the proper level of development of the Ukrainian language. This bill proposes the establishment of an institution such as the National Commission on Ukrainian Standards. The bill proposes the establishment of an institution that is mandated by national language in Ukraine. Because a Ukrainian citizen who wants to seek the protection of his or her language rights must have his or her representation in the authorities. This bill contains very detailed procedures and applications of the Ukrainian language. All of these spheres are marked, all of these spheres are very clearly defined, there is no possibility of any abuse. What Is Important? If, over the past years, the Ukrainian State has not created any mechanisms to enable those who do not speak Ukrainian for one reason or another in the territory of Ukraine to learn Ukrainian, this bill is a real bill that proposes the creation of institutions to help Ukrainian citizens learn Ukrainian. This bill does not change, it does not blame, the standards of the bill do not break because of the knees of those who, again, for some reason in their 50 ’ s, 60 ’ s, or 70 ’ s, do not speak the national language. This bill creates opportunities for young people, it creates opportunities for those who are now going to gardens, it creates opportunities for those who are now in school, it provides tools for its real implementation. And that's why he's certainly causing attacks on both sides: he's being attacked on one side by regionals because he's supposed to be lyingly breaking through the knees of people; on the other hand, he's being attacked by pseudopaths, whose bills clearly contain ambiguity and reservation for people who want to practice it. It's totally unacceptable, it's fake. The most important thing about Bill 5670-d, which we have worked on on on the committee yesterday, is that it guarantees Ukraine's sovereign right to state language and creates conditions for its study and respects every citizen living in that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u148	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you. Aah! Excuse me! Now the question to the reporter. Please record for questions. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Dobrodomov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u149	Good afternoon. I ask you to pass the word to my colleague Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u150	Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u151	Dear reporter! Oleg Musei, National Control MP, Lvivščina, Sokal, Czervonograd. You know that in our foreign country, the issue of language is always very painful, especially in recent times when Poland is trying to impose its Polish standards on us. Knowing you as a person who advocates more of the language of national minorities, it is a pity, not a Ukrainian language. Say, please, your Bill 5670 contains an absolute article that does not correspond to the decision of the 99th Constitutional Court on the language of education and study. How do you do it? Perhaps it would be logical, having a bill of 5670-d, where are you also the author and where am I, by the way, the author of this bill to film? Because why look at another family bill, which is essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. I'm actually going to ask the chairman or the presiding officer, and I'm going to go to the hall and we're going to put Bill 5670-D to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u154	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u155	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have a question for my colleague. So it's very good that we're dealing with legislation on such important issues, and I'm going to wonder how you're looking at what my colleague just asked, but already in the context of your specific proposals, namely, protecting languages of national smaller ones while protecting and using human rights and using national language? How does this work? And how do we draw on the experience of European countries? That's the first one. And the second. I wanted to ask you about the suggestions that are in the science department. There are a lot of critical remarks, I know the committee said that very much. I think a lot of this is going to be taken into account. How do you feel about this? And what exactly will be taken into account by the observations of scientific and scientific management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u156	Thank you. I would like to emphasize once again by answering your first question that the subject of the 5670-d bill is exclusively and only Ukrainian as a national language. All rights of national minorities are today in other laws and international acts ratified by Ukraine, and they are preserved because they are guaranteed. As for the comments of the GNEU to Bill 5670 or Bill 5670-d, these observations are typical. Basically, they relate to the fact that the legislator has no right to create any organs. Instead, these organs should be created by the Cabinet of Ministers. I just want to remind our dear colleagues what if. And so to colleagues from GNEU, if we want to talk about the methodology for the creation of the central executive organs, this is obviously the methodology for their creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u157	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u158	Because we have a lot of them in the legislative field that we've created. This is also the NCRECR, this is the NCREZI, this is the other central executives. Clearly, then, this should not be the State - Language Act, where the matter should be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u159	Thank you. I invite you to the final question of the People's Deputy Branzowicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u160	Thank you for the word. Dear colleague, I have another question. Your bill applies to every person, every citizen of Ukraine. And it'll probably cause a lot of resonance both in our country and abroad. Would it not be desirable to have a broad social and professional discussion of the draft law, as well as to send conclusions to the Council of Europe on the conformity of its regulations with the standards and recommendations of the Council of Europe, because this has not been done?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's important to note that Bill 5670-d. Whether 5670 was registered in the Supreme Council a few years ago. In fact, this bill is the only bill that has been discussed as widely as possible, supported by dozens of civil organisations, supported by dozens of experts and ordinary citizens, individuals. So this bill of broader discussion, which was more than the 5670-d bill, was not, exactly, in any of the bills that there is. In addition, this bill, in the language of education, meets the requirements or recommendations of the Venice Commission, because this article will be drafted in the form in which it is in educational law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u162	Thank you, thank you, reporter. And you can take your place. And we invite the head of the Committee on the Culture and Spirituality of the People's Deputy, Mikola Knieżicky, to speak for the interview, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u163	While Mr. Knieżicky is approaching the rostrum, colleagues, I'd like to inform you. We have a full procedure, that is, after the last report, there will be factions from the factions, then statements from the deputies. Together, it's 40 minutes. We already have 13:07. I have a very large request, and to the reporter, to be more concise. We have to go to the polls by two o'clock. I plan to tell the factions at 13:40, 45 not later than now, that at 13:40 everyone will be in the workplace and ready to vote. And I urge you to be very concise so that we don't drag down the issue so that we can have full mobilization in the hall during the adoption of the Ukrainian State Language Act. Mr. Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, I want to thank you for asking this question, because we remember when the Ukrainian Parliament adopted the Language Act in 89, it became a real holiday for the Ukrainians. And we mentioned that law and that Supreme Council Head throughout the entire construction of our independent country. I have great hope that today we will take this historic step, restore justice, finally adopt the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. As you well know, after this law was passed, many years later the so - called so - called notorious law of colleagues at the time of Koleschenka and Kiwalova was passed, which actually destroyed the law. This Khlyenchenka-Kivalova Act was repealed by the Constitutional Court. And now we have a vacuum, we don't have any language laws at all. Instead, in many neighboring countries, all European countries have language laws. In Russia there is the Russian Language Act, in Poland there is the Polish Language Act, in France there is the French Language Act, and such language laws are in every European country. Today is a truly responsible step and time. How we prepared for the adoption of this law. It's very important. For example, I was with my colleague Mathios, co-author of Law 5669, who was represented here by a colleague from Freedom. At the same time, our other colleagues in the working group of the Ministry of Culture worked with the public on Law 5670. We worked in parallel. But when we realized that we had two laws, we decided to unite our efforts. We've prepared a committee law that's been worked out. This law has been signed by a great many people, and it is very pleasant for me. I'm glad that it was signed by the representatives of the Peter Prashenko bloc, because when I see a board run with one of the candidates who wrote, "Quiet," I have no doubt that you're all voting for this, because that's the law on this language. I'm glad you've supported me, colleagues from BUT, because when your leader speaks about the European choice, about NATO, it's precisely the recommendation of the Venice Commission to protect the Ukrainian language. I'm convinced of colleagues from all the factions, from the People's Front, in Oleg Lachko, who raises his hand, I never doubted the Self-Help we worked with. In the "will of the people," "rebirth," I even believe that "the opposition block" and Hanna Hopko, who co-authored this bill, is non-fractional, like other non-fractional ones, supporting this bill. So this is a joint bill that was actually drafted by representatives of all political groups. Why did we unite Laws 5669 and 5670, and another law was not united with them? It's also very important. Because we have two concepts. This law is called the Ukrainian Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. So this is the law on Ukrainian language. We have two other projects, one of them reported, colleagues of Lesyuk, it's not a law on Ukrainian language, it's a law on languages in Ukraine. Yes, it applies to the regulation of the Ukrainian language, but as the preamble says, it applies to all languages, including minority languages. There is another bill of colleague Murayeva, which is also 8550, which also applies to the regulation of all languages. And these two laws, Murayeva and Lesyuka, are not laws about Ukrainian language. The law of Comrade Murayev has not yet been considered on the committee, let's see -- let's move it out. Yes, there are many useful things in this law, but I would love to, I am absolutely convinced that the law that we have to adopt is our historical responsibility. It's the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language. At a committee meeting yesterday, we made some changes to this bill. This relates to the fact that other laws were passed at the time that the bill was put into the hall and prepared, as Pobelak’s colleague had said. It's also the Education Act and other regulations, the Television and Radio Act. So, taking these changes into account, we proposed the following changes. First. And if we vote for him, I say it under the transcript so we can vote in the committee. So first. In the text of the bill, the words "Centre of the Ukrainian Language" and "Terminological Center of the Ukrainian Language" should be replaced by "National Commission of Public Language Standards" in the appropriate wording. The other one. Article 45 of the bill on the Ukrainian Language Centre should be deleted. And part of the "Competition of the Centre" is transferred to article 40 "Approval of the Nazi Commission" as a new part of this third article, the first paragraph of which is worded as "To the competence of the National Commission in support of Ukrainian standards "Reviewing and improving the level of ownership is," the end of the quote. So we're reducing the number of regulators, leaving the Commissioner and the National Commission. Third. Article 47 of the bill on the Terminology Centre should be deleted. The second and third parts of this article should be moved to article 40 as a new part of the fourth part of this article, the first paragraph of which reads as follows: "The competence of the National Commission for the maintenance and improvement of Ukrainian language standards belongs to the National Commission.".. The next thing you know, it's what's been bothering a lot of people. Article 51, "Service of Language Inspectors." remove all references in other articles about language inspectors and language inspectors from the bill, and replace them according to the Authorized for the Protection of State Language and the Control for the Compliance of State Language Standards with the Use of State Language, as appropriate. Next. Everywhere in the text, the word "the Ukrainian Act on National Minorities in Ukraine" is replaced by the word "the law" in the corresponding differences. Six. Article 20 of the Law on Television and Radio. That is, we have implemented the recommendation of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media that this week we should make this decision because the new law comes into force on October 13, and you can already see how many channels translate their foreign language programs into Ukrainian. Some take offense, and some take pride in doing so with dignity and honesty. Next. Article 17 of the Act on Education, which added part five and eleven of article 17 of the bill to it in the original article 7 of the Act on Education, provides for a transitional position, which added the standard in part five of article 17 to enter into force in 2025. What are we talking about? What's not in the Education Act is that we're introducing a mandatory publication of an external independent evaluation exclusively in Ukrainian. But understanding that this law has not yet been fully implemented, we are suspending it until 2025, as recommended by the Venice Commission. And the next thing you know, there were a lot of worries. Excluding part two of article 1. This is precisely the point that many people speculated, saying that this law seems to protect other languages more than Ukrainian. This Article 2 of Part One we exclude from this law. Dear friends, I urge you all to support Law 5670-d simply because it's fair, simply because it's responsible, simply because everyone who doesn't press this button can't forgive himself or the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want you to think very carefully about the words that the committee head said. The head of the Knieżicky Committee reported that a bill was brought to the committee yesterday in accordance with other laws that we had adopted in the field of language, the Education Act and the Act on quotas in the media and in television. Moreover, the sensitive issue of language inspectors has been removed from the law at all stages so that there is no unnecessary speculation. The Language Commissioner is left, the function and the definition of language inspectors from the law is removed. And when we vote, these changes will be in the first reading, already in the first reading. So we vote without the shortcomings that were in the law, because while the law was waiting for consideration, we passed both the Education Act and quotas. And that's why all the vulnerable moments and all the disagreements are removed by the committee's decision yesterday. And when I put the bill "d" on it, I'm going to emphasize that with the amendments to the committee that the committee head made to the stenogram so that everyone would understand it and not speculate on it. It's very important, colleagues. Before the vote, everyone realizes that. Now, colleagues, three minutes of question-answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u166	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Semimenho. Fish, right? Excuse me, National Deputy Ryabchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u167	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I personally consider this bill to be the most quality and most prepared of all. And it's very good that you've read under the transcript the things that make it even better. Because there were things that people were being hunted against. Hopefully, for the second reading, it'll be even more beautiful. I have a question for you. There are people who, for objective reasons, are unable to study Ukrainian for the occupation of temporary Crimea and the purgatory of Donbas. By associating with them, they want to move to Ukraine or expect their children to learn in Ukraine. However, they do not have an objective opportunity to learn Ukrainian. By this law, please tell us how these people are being helped to master Ukrainian language, which mechanisms to support those people who, for objective reasons, in the occupied areas of Donbas and Crimea cannot now learn Ukrainian language, but still choose Ukraine? What's the signal for the helmet in that area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u168	Thank you, colleague, for the meaningful question. You touched, by the way, the changes we talked about. Well, my colleague told me correctly, I'm saying this under the transcript that this is going to be consistent with the bills that have already been adopted, including the television and radio bill, which will also be shown in the Transitional Positions. I want to tell you that the law provides for the teaching of Ukrainian. The forms of learning may vary. There may be distance forms of learning. And we certainly need to do so. Because the citizens you're talking about are our citizens. Perhaps we are now voting on the law in the first reading. Perhaps there is a lack of legislation to ensure that these citizens are educated. I will be very grateful for the amendment that I promise to support myself in the consideration. Because, indeed, we cannot abandon these people, we are responsible for them. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u169	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Konstankević.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u170	Please give the floor to the national MP, Chevchenk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u171	It's powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u172	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Good afternoon, Your Honor! I don't understand why Ukrainian language is supposed to have quotas. Clearly, the English language should have a hundred percent of the language. And I also want to add that if there are any compromises or compromises, it's all going to have to be done on a regional level. So only a hundred percent of that vote is required. I also want to look at all the factions, including the President's, because the President says that language is a priority, and it's all over the boards. I appeal to the BP faction to support it. And personally to Mr. Barney because he's mastered those Russian mattresses, and I'm going to control it personally, as he votes for the language. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u173	Heroim Slava! Dear colleague, first of all, I'd like to apologize to you because I mentioned here the presidential candidates who have their factions here, and I didn't mention you. So for your support, the person who's struggling with the Russian dimension, I'm counting on it first. And of course, you and I will do everything we can to ensure that Ukrainian language prevails throughout the country. We don't have any quotas for Ukrainian. We have English as the main national language and will be protected by this law. Yes, we have quotas for national minorities in some laws to protect their rights, of course, we respect their rights. But given the terrible state in which the Ukrainian language is now, your question absolutely has the right to exist and will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u174	Thank you. Last question is Ostrikav's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u175	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please tell me, very often, the Supreme Council adopts laws that are not secured by real enforcement mechanisms and institutions that are called upon to monitor the implementation of one or the other. Sadly, many bills are filled with declarative, not normative, content. You've just read under the transcript the amendments that exclude from the text of the bill, so-called, language inspectors, who had control over the use of Ukrainian as a national language in public life in the exercise of powers by state representatives: judges, prosecutors, officials, in particular the people's deputies. Please tell me what the mechanism will be, will citizens be able to file complaints, who will deal with them, who will be able to file complaints? Who will perform these functions so that this law will not become another declaration and propaganda?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u176	Thank you very much for this question, and it was often asked by journalists in the watchtowers. First of all, I want to tell you that this is the only bill that includes both administrative and even criminal responsibility. Administrative responsibility is for minor violations, for example, if someone in this room comes out here and talks in a foreign language, he'll pay the fine, but if someone wants to tarnish the language, demean the same as our coat of arms or flag, that's criminal responsibility. The functions that you referred to as being in the language inspectors are handed over to the Authorized Device, which will control the execution of the law to which they will refer and, of course, this is the only law, unlike other laws, 5556, where there is no responsibility or punishment, the only law whose application will be completely effectively controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u177	Thank you, reporter. Please give the National Deputy Barney one minute to reply, and we'll move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u178	Thank you for giving so much attention. But I think when the question of putting in place, even sometimes in hard form, a liar and a thief or a representative of a liar and a thief, is less important than stealing and lying. And by the way, they put it in Ukrainian, and they put it in the deputy. President Alexander Shevchenk's candidate, I would like to remind him to pay more attention to not sometimes harsh words, but to pay more attention to the lies and thievery of the people of Ukraine by his master, Kolomoyski, who fled the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u179	Thank you. There is no replication on the line, so keep an eye out for your comments, since there is no replication on the line. Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the faction statement. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u181	Please, National Deputy Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u182	Dear people of Ukraine! Now everyone knows when the authorities are starting to speculate on language issues -- wait for trouble or elections. If the leaders of the country were able to work, they suggested ways to get Ukraine out of the crisis and talk about the economy, and they can't, but they really want to stay in power. And what are they doing? Then they split society apart and appoint enemies, so the issue of language is raised. Millions of Ukrainian citizens who speak Hungarian, Romanian, Russian, and other languages are appointed by some unreal Ukrainians. Cynicism is what is being done under the slogans of Europe, and in fact these bills contradict European laws and charters, the Constitution of Ukraine, the conclusions of the Venice Commission, even the annual national programme under the auspices of the Ukrainian-NATO Commission for 2018, initiated by the President of Ukraine. I'm against NATO, but you've made your ideology out of this. The authorities need to determine whether they are European standards, or do they want to create North Korea? Introducing a standard for a real Ukrainian, who only listens to one song, reads only one book, watches only one television channel, walks in one dress, and speaks only one language. To me, the Ukrainian is everyone who ties his future to our nation and is willing to work for it. And I don't care what language he speaks, what churches he goes to, or even what nationality he's in. What Europe is like when in the first version there were actually language inspectors who were supposed to fine people if there was a doctor who said something to his patient in a language different from that of the state. I've just heard from the rostrum that language inspectors are being changed into authorized public speakers. But the point remains: and fines remain, and even criminal responsibility remains -- you can go to jail. Look at the documents you have on your hands. Even the Council's scientific expert department notes that the bill contradicts the Constitution, includes discriminatory norms, and its introduction has corruption risks and requires additional budget costs. We will vote against all laws. I refer to the national MPs: honourable colleagues, there must be a moratorium -- a ban on laws that split society with language, history and faith. And the best defense of Ukrainian national language will be the normal living conditions of people -- pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u183	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u184	The best protection of Ukrainian language will be the normal living conditions of people -- pensions, normal decent wages, tariff cuts, because at today's rate of emigration, population extinction and Ukrainian poverty, there will be no one to talk to. I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention and for your common sense. You can't do that! Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u185	From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko is invited. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u186	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, this session hall is currently under consideration for a very important bill. A bill that is not directed against someone or a language, but which aims to protect the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian authorities defend the Ukrainian language, because if we do not defend our own language, no other country will. It is our responsibility to ensure that the national language has proper status in Ukraine. I represent the political power of the Fatherland, which consistently protected Ukrainian national language in this session hall. I'm going to remind you that in 2012, when the Kivalova-Keleščenka Act was specifically enacted in this session hall to disintegrate Ukrainian society in order to give Russian special status and to follow Ukrainian, it was "Paternity" that fought to get it approved. The Fatherland representatives were on the speech show, and this is our consistent position to protect the Ukrainian language as a national language. At the same time, I want to say that we must do our utmost to encourage Ukrainian youth, the Ukrainian society, to study the Ukrainian language of those who have not yet learned the Ukrainian language. But in doing so, and this is a matter of regulating a separate law, we are struggling to protect the languages that are threatened by extinction in Ukraine. These are languages such as Crimean Tatars, Karaims, Crimeans, Hagausian languages, these are languages that follow Europe and our duty to protect. But at the same time, I would like to say which bill to vote for. There are four bills, the most prepared of which is Bill 5670-d, which was worked by the committee. And I think that it needs to be taken as a basis, even though it's not ideal, it needs to be worked out for the second reading, it needs to be done everything possible to make this law really effective, and the mechanisms in it have to be prescribed so that it works so that Ukrainian language can be protected. At the same time, I'm surprised when a bill signed by the MPs of the BPT faction, 5556, set out rules that were out of line with the Kivalova-Keleščenka Act and that actually established regional language status. It should be remembered that, yes, the issue of language in Ukraine, which the Party of Regions had been making, had become political. We were dissected by language, told that Russian was under pressure at a time when it was actually under pressure and followed the Ukrainian language. So I call on the authors, if you really want the Ukrainian language, take down your bill and let's unite, and vote in favour of the 5670-d bill, and put a dot on this. Show your national position. Do not play with national interests. Hang one on board and actually do the other. It is necessary to vote for laws that are governmental, Ukrainian, and make Ukraine stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u187	Thank you. Opanasenko's giving Roman Semensi the word from the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u188	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Dear Ukrainian people! "The nations don't die of a heart attack, they take their language first" -- how much truth and pain in these lines of Lena Kostenko! And, of course, today is a historic day for the Ukrainian Parliament to make historic decisions. But he was chosen, not by us, but by dozens of previous generations. And this draft of Law 5670-d on Ukrainian State Language is a project, first of all, for future generations, for our sons and grandchildren. The power, will and wisdom of previous generations enabled us to preserve the Ukrainian language, our own identity, give us a chance to revive the Ukrainian State, because the native language is given to the people by God, and the alien is given to the people. And today's review of this bill, my dear fellows, is a test of maturity for all of us, to be prepared to make joint decision-making, historic decisions. And let's face it, there's a lot of people out of Parliament today who don't want us to find a common important solution today. At the same time, however, respectable colleagues, no other parliament in the world will defend Ukrainian language. Parliament's eighth convocation, of course, has several historical assignments. And one is to protect Ukrainian statehood, but at the same time to ensure the development of Ukrainian language. The 5670-d public project is balanced and balanced. First of all, he speaks of dignity and respect for human beings. It ensures, above all, the progressive steady development of Ukrainian national language. But it also provides specific tools for the function and development of Ukrainian. Because national language, colleagues, is a State security tool, it is a human rights tool, and most importantly, it is the largest tool for integrating all Ukrainian citizens into the only Ukrainian political nation. The self-help faction refers to all colleagues in the session hall to support the draft Law 5670-d. We are convinced that all comments can be fully taken into account when considering the second reading, for today the entire Ukrainian people are awaiting a historic and wise decision from this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u189	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word of Andrew Lozova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u190	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Of course, Law 5670-d is not perfect, but it's a very important step to protect the Ukrainian language, it's the State Language Act, and all the controversial norms are actually removed from it. Mikola Leonidovic said very correctly that (I would like to see this in the transcript) that television regulates a separate TV and radio bill so that we do not create a legal collapse and an incredible threat to the future. But you know, I was driving today, and I saw the board talk, and I mentioned that today, on October 4, 1890, the Radical Party was established in Lviv -- the first political power in Ukraine. Her first leader was Ivan Yakovich Franco. In 2011, Oleg Lazko and our team revived this party. [[Applause]] John Yakovitch, our first leader, has suffered a great deal in his life because he fought for the right of Ukrainians to be Ukrainians for our language. And pay attention and listen carefully to what he wrote. "Ukrainian language is such a nice home outfit for me, in which each one is shown to another as it is. Ukrainian is the language of my heart." For our leader, for our team, language is family, it's in the heart, it's natural. We don't have to prove, hang boards before the election, bragging, "Army. Language. Church" being Russian. When Lacia and Misiyczuk were beaten at the funeral of Patriarch Volodymyr in 95 C.E., Poshenko never thought of defending the Ukrainian language for a moment. He still seems to be still Russian-speaking, just parasitic, parasitic, parasitic before the elections, that he taught us how expensive it is to pay for his independence. And today, President Prashenko's actions are the height of cynicism. Start with yourself, learn Ukrainian, love Ukrainian, be real Ukrainians, honor others, and, as Father Taras wrote, "Teach others, and do not turn away from yours." Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u191	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u192	Dear Ukrainian people, dear fellow national MPs, we have come out with the entire "National Front" faction to contact you with a simple one. We are to join you today in uniting the Parliamentary Hall, uniting the Ukrainian people, and making a single appeal to all the Ukrainians of the world: we have no alternative but to defend the Ukrainian language in a legitimate way. According to the Constitution, Ukrainian is a national language. According to article 10 of the Constitution, the standard of use of Ukrainian language should be regulated by law. We today have to adopt a law that best meets the requirements of a society that meets the demands of the academic environment, to protect the law that will help the Armed Forces of Ukraine, education, science, television, health care, and all other aspects of our lives to have tools to implement effective public policy. This document should be the most effective and most comfortable document for all who want to improve their knowledge and be the strongest who want to learn the language but speak in another language, the language of the national minority. This is a law that should help us to be above our political ambitions. Our faction will support Bill 5670-d because it unites the session hall. Because it unites the Ukrainian people. Because he provides an answer to the Moscow kingdom for the fifth century C.E. Because it is the backbone of support for the development of Ukrainian culture and art. Because he's the answer to the dissident movement. And it is the result of the struggle of the members of the Revolution on the granite. He is a requirement for participants in the Dignity Revolution. This is our answer to all who oppose the Ukrainian people. We support the 5670s. Praise the English language!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Now from the will of the people group, 1 minute, Eugene Ribczynski. Because our time is limited. Please, Mr. Eugene, one minute. And then six minutes from the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u194	Eugene Ribczynski. Why? [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, I've been preparing for this, that's more extensive. Andrew Volodymyrovich gave me one minute. In one minute, you know what you can do -- nine months from now, she'll be born. And we have to be born today. So I'm going to read the Constitution: "The state ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine. The use of languages in Ukraine is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and is governed by law," states article 10 of the Constitution. But there is currently no law in Ukraine to determine the basic principles of national language policy. After the Constitutional Court's annulment of the Kivalova Koleschenka Act, we now have a vacuum, we have to fill it today. I beg you very much, and the will of the people today will vote in 5670. And I'm asking you to show your consciousness today. Thank you all very much. Too bad one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u195	Excuse me, Mr. Eugene, I'm sure you'll find me another time. I owe two minutes to Eugene Ribczynski. I'll give it another time. There was no statement from Peter Dustock's Block. Please, Mrs. Oksana. Oksana Bilozer. After that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, friends, of course, we must adopt the Language Act today, of course, we must adopt two laws, two laws today, because our Parliament can show that we are able to unite in the Ukrainian Parliament, because our conduct is and will respond to society today. We have two concepts: one concept proposed by our faction and another concept, which is in the law, which is 70-d. Language is the soul of the people, you will never make the naked love of language. I want my language to be respected and respected, because language as a mother, it opens arms and embraces itself, not drives away the nugget that's in the 70th Bill. Friends, let's work together, we'll take two laws, because both of us have the right to live, and we'll make one nice consolidation bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u197	30 seconds, please, Mrs. Oksana, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u198	and show the Ukrainians that we are able to unite in Parliament in order to unite Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u199	Thank you. Colleagues, six minutes from the National Deputies, and then we go to the vote. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in six minutes. Please record, six minutes is two performances actually from the MPs. It is a mandatory norm to speak from the national MPs, but time limits us. So two performances, Kishkar passes to Krivenkov. And please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u200	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is no point in talking about the importance of the language issue as the head of the interfractional "For Language" merger. Now, we've taken a lot of initiative with you and the Ukrainian language on the radio and many others, many other initiatives. Mrs. Maria, may I? Thank you. I support the position that Oksana Bilozer has given us. I think we need to adopt two bills and make them one and one. 5670-d is a clear violation of the 99th Constitutional Court. And this is something that needs really professional consultation, including the Constitutional Court. 5556, in our opinion, is more protective of Ukrainian language. 5670-d is the risk of going back to learning the language of national minorities at school. You've seen this Kremlin provocation almost a year ago, when they failed to make Russian a national language, they went through the language of national minorities. Hungarians, Romanian communities, took the lead, but it was done for one thing to keep Russian - speaking schools in my native Kamyanski, Dnipri, in Mariupola. Because it is through children that they influence us and try to preserve us in the orbit of Russian peace. We made a balanced decision with you and left it to the 4th class of teaching the language of national minorities. There is now a great risk that through the 17th article, 18th article, we can get these discussions back and get a bunch of conflicts in the center and the east. So there is a proposal to adopt two bills. The first one will be 5556, and we'll see how Parliamentary colleagues are ready for compromise or uncompromising. I urge all deputies not to hang on to each other's label, which is the smaller patriot who's the greater patriot, depending on what he's voting for. Everyone has researched, read these bills, and maybe someone who criticizes knows much less who sits silent and wants peace and harmony in our country. That's why we can't get out without the Speech Act, since we're already on the subject, we're still going to go out with you on a consensus decision. The important thing is to keep it quiet, because our discussion, including the street, and the soul of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u201	Heroim Slava! Colleagues, I'd like to tell everyone who's speaking, we've got 13 minutes to go. My goal is to vote in at least five minutes without a friend. And to do that, colleagues, according to the Rules, there have to be speeches by the people's deputies, I've given the minimum number, we can't violate any norm. And that's why I'm asking you to approach this with an understanding, and I'm asking you not to demand a word, but to demand a vote, because today we have a decision to make by lunch, my colleague. Do not make a statement, but the decision must be made by noon today. Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u202	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, today we are the entire Ukrainian state, the entire Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian Parliament are at a crucial moment. Much has been said why we should vote for the Law speech, now very important, dear colleagues, did not mistake the text of the law that we are about to vote on. The real issue today is that there are voices of support with two bills. One is a bill from the 5556 Peter Prashenko faction, the other is a committee bill by Mr. Knieżicko 5670. Now, with all due respect, there are a number of comments that I can't help but notice. First of all, this bill is a faster application or declaration, because those requirements that apply to civil servants, to national MPs and judges do not contain any responsibility for their failure to comply, so these rules are absolutely declarative. Secondly, we're talking about a series of very dangerous things. You're predicting by your bill that a third, if it's from a population of a national minority who wants to speak a language other than Ukrainian, will have the right to speak it. But the law is not defined, why? The law does not determine how this third will be determined, who will calculate where this third of the national minority, which service will keep the register? And all of this creates serious doubts that it can't be used for manipulation. Now we're going further down the legal section. With all due respect, once again, the legal team you've been talking about, but there are a number of substantial legal slaps. For example, when it comes to the list of courts in which the official language is used, something about the Constitutional Court is forgotten when it comes to the list of persons who are obliged to send their petitions to the court and receive information. Perhaps someone has not read anything, not just the parties present, the parties are only a third party, there are still prosecutors in the civil process, and so forth, there are some senior classes in school, there is no legal term. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about professional law, this is the law of Knazevitch, but the Law on State Language has no right to include questions like national minorities, these are different categories. State language is a language in which public authorities communicate, the languages of national minorities are guaranteed by the Constitution, but these are rules for another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u203	Thank you. Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna. Sissyenko's not speaking. Colleagues, attention, colleagues, I give Chubarov a minute, I think the hall won't object, and Chubarov begs for his word, I think everyone supports what we have to give a representative of Crimean Tatars, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I don't want to tell you that great nations are worthy of nations, and the Ukrainian nation is certainly like this, acting in such a way as not to crush, not to strangle anyone who has exactly the same God-given rights. The Crimean Tatar people are the indigenous people of Crimea, whose historic land, whose homeland is part of an integral part of the Ukrainian state. And there is no country outside Ukraine or any other country where Crimean Tatar language can be preserved, developed and used. So I'd like to go to all my colleagues, and we're just bound to talk and defend Ukrainian language, talk about how Crimean Tatar language is preserved and developed. So, with the amendment to the statements that were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u205	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u206	My colleague, I would like to say that the approach to this project is greatly improving. We're going to work on second reading, but I want to point out a project by a colleague of Jaroslav Lesyuk, who has a philosophy of approach, where they're trying to comprehensively solve the language issue in relation to the rights of the Ukrainian nation, the indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u207	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're about to go to the vote. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. As the MPs come in, I want to report that there has been a deliberate commission in the government to study Ukrainian language laws. I'm giving you one more minute from Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko's government. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, Viacheslav Kirilenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The importance of this issue in the long run is difficult to overestimate, for the cause of decolonization, and for the cause of Ukrainian identity. Moreover, I think most people now understand that the issue of Ukrainian is not a question of linguistics, it is a matter of national security. Clearly, then, there can be no legislative vacuum in this matter. There is no law now, and it must be approved. As a result, a special working group was set up in March by the Prime Minister to make legislative proposals on the Language Law. An expert group was also set up to implement the President’s decree, which also addressed the issue of language legislation. I'm going to tell you that both these institutions -- both the working group and the expert group -- have adopted a decision that only shows how the government feels about this issue. First. All the bills now put into the agenda are good and have positive features, but the advantages of all the bills are included in the bill that you are currently considering and has number 56.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u209	Turn on 10 seconds. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u210	The advantages of all the bills are included in the 5670-D bill that you are currently considering. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u211	Thank you, colleagues. Irina Heraszczenko gives Mary Mathios his word. One minute is the vote, colleagues. I don't speak, although I have something to say about language, because you remember me when the Kevalschenko-Kivalova Law was passed here. Who Opposed? Who broke this law? I do not take the word, respecting the law, and I ask you all to respect it. We're about to go to the vote. The minute is Maria Mathios, and then the vote. Please, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Irina Heraszczenko and Oleg Lajskov, for finally giving the opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian writer, the author of more than 20 books in Ukrainian from the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Congrats]] When I listen to some of our colleagues who don't fight in the courts since when it comes to national language, you know, I want to talk to one of the characters in my books who says that "everybody loves Ukraine so much that they like it." And from the book as well as from the song, words are not thrown away. During the discussion of these language laws, we listened to the nonsense and nightmares of the unforgettable and beloved Mikli Janović of the seemingly knee - breaking of those who use Russian and any other nonsense in this room, who are even rude to repeat. So I'm nowhere here or anywhere I'm not going to meet during this devastating resistance to the adoption of language law, and I haven't met any.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u213	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u214	As a result of this type of violence, there was a fracture of the spine, a broken eye, or a stroke. [[Applause]] I didn't hear from any of those colleagues who hang their paws, noodles to voters' ears, that he was a representative of some sort of special south-east, didn't understand or protest without translators when he took money from the Ukrainian treasury to his county in the south-east.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u215	30 seconds to complete, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u216	I'm sorry, we're talking about national language today. [[Applause]] Another of my essays is that our children from foreign - language families will find it difficult to master the state. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make our intelligent children mentally retarded, we're all watching "The Shortest of All," because he's unable to learn Ukrainian, our children are capable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u217	One minute, one minute to complete, one minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u218	In Japanese, in Chinese, in Hindi, he'll learn Ukrainian if there's a proper level of teaching and a material and technical base. Even in the war zone, where I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, and I've been, None of the people I care for so far have said that they do not want to hear or understand my Ukrainian language. And what's more, when I visit them in military hospitals of all kinds, they go to speak Ukrainian without coercion and even without asking because they appreciate their level of concern and there's no compulsion, we'll understand that. I would, Andry Volodymyrovich, spend one session of our Parliament on a cemetery in Krasnogorów. in Krasnopila Dnipropetrovsk, so far, the areas where our heroes are not buried. Where I was on Saturday, there's a lot of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u219	Mrs. Mary, thank you very much. 30 seconds. 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u220	So I'm doing what they say in Lviv. Dear colleagues, let's not play crazy today, let's focus on drafting the 5670-d bill, which is the product of collective efforts to get us out into a bill that is flawless in terms of European standards and recommendations of the Venice Commission. And that'll be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u221	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'll bet first. First of all, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please do not leave the hall, but go into the hall and take up jobs. I'll put everyone on a rating vote first. Then the one who won the largest number of votes, I'm going to propose to take it as a basis. So let's get started. I am the first to vote on the draft Law 5556, reported by Lesjuk Jaroslav Vasilovich. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. The rating vote. Vote. [[14:01:29]] For-167 The second is the draft Law 5669, which was reported by national deputy Golovko Mikhailo Josipovich. Please vote. The rating vote. [[14:01:57]] For-66 I'm next in line for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's taking it off. I'm next in line with (d), 5670-d, reported by Princely Nikola Leonidovich. I would like to stress that he is voting with those rights that the committee head has sounded under the transcript. Rating vote, please. Please vote. [[2:02:37]] For 199 In the rating vote, the biggest vote was the draft of the 5670-d. And I'm voting on draft Law 5670-d, which. with the papers that were bugged. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm the only one. What's all the hysterics? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on draft Law 5670-d with those rights that were issued by Mikola Knieżicki, where all the recommendations of the Venice Commission were taken into account, and those bills that we've already adopted on education and that we've adopted on quotas. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[14:03:50]] For 202 Colleagues, attention, attention. I'm begging for peace!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u222	Please rest in the hall, I ask you to rest in the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to calm down. I'm asking everyone to calm down, colleagues. I'm asking you to calm down! I'm talking again. Hanna, please calm down. We're not leaving the hall until we make a decision. I'm asking everyone to calm down. So, colleagues, so attention, I'm asking everyone to be there and be in the hall while you're at work. So now we have a few minutes. I propose that we go back to the two bills that gave us the largest number of votes and support both of them as a basis. We have no right to overthrow the bill, boys! I'm saying we can't get out of here without a decision. So, colleagues, it's me. language unites, we must be united. Now I propose to go back to the drafts of Law 5670-d and 5556. Colleagues, this is a way for us to make decisions. I'm asking the WFP for one minute, Igor Green. Explain your position. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not gonna make it, colleagues. Keep your eyes on the law. Please, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u223	Friends, I urge everyone to be truly patriots of Ukraine. Do not play political games. Trust me, from the beginning. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, I've been called a shame in this life, too, but usually the enemies of Ukraine. Do not make enemies of Ukraine. I say again, listen to the end. Our proposal is this, we have to adopt the Ukrainian Language Act here today, in this room. So what we're proposing, we're proposing, is that it creates consensus in both the hall and in society, and we're proposing that today, on the basis of both of these laws, we give back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Give it back. That's not true. That's not true. Come on, let me try my offer. To give this law from BP, from Lesjuk, from anyone else to the Princely Committee, both laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u224	30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u225	He'll make the law right. This is a normal offer that can unite the hall. Don't make politics out of trying to do it now: one is good, one is bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u226	Colleagues. Thank you. Colleagues, I'm not taking the floor. Because if I give the floor to the speech, it will mean a break in the consideration of the Language Law. We've got six minutes, six minutes left, colleagues. So, colleagues, we're all speaking, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to go back to reviewing both laws that have the largest number of votes: 5670-d and 5556. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote for return, return to two laws. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[14:07:31]] For 218. Attention, colleagues! Attention! I'm asking everyone to pay attention. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down now. I wanted as much as I could to have more time, I did everything I could, even though there were incredible demands on words in the room. We have seven minutes left. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Now I see what the situation is in the hall. I'm saying we can't leave without a decision. Without a decision, that would mean all of them were rejected. Who can look into our citizens' eyes if we go out with the laws we've rejected?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to put politics back on track right now. We have to make decisions. By the way, I'm pretty sure I'm talking to the whole room, there's got to be a joint decision. I believe that laws cannot be unified on the committee if they are even adopted. They have to be considered in parallel: one law – about languages, one law – about national language. And I see now, it's the only way, colleagues, the only way to go back, vote two. I don't see any other way now, colleagues. So there will be no more performances. There will be a vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of both laws -- 5556 and 5670. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[14:09:28]] For 215 It's a road situation. Please, head of the committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u228	Head of the committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, from the "Peter Prashenko Block" faction, well, there were a lot of mistakes, saying that this law with the letter "d" is not my law, it's not my law, it's your law. I've been working with, here's Maria Matios, Jurinec, Denisenko, I can call 20 names your deputies, here's Jura Solovay standing here, working with us on this law. What was the situation? We invited our colleagues, Lesyuk, to join us in this joint working group, where we all joined together. Well, he refused then. We've been through this, we've been working on this for a year, we've been doing this for a year. It's your law, colleagues, that you've been misled, if you do, you'll support both your leader and democracy. I'm asking you, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u230	So the proposal from the committee, the proposal from the committee head to return only to Law 5670-d. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to one of the laws proposed by the 5670s Committee. Who supports the proposal to return to just one law, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[14:11:00]] For 223 Colleagues, we've got a few minutes. I'll do it again, like the last one, twice. I propose once again to return to one law of 5670-d. Please vote and please support. To one. One law. Please vote. [[14:11:36]] For 209 Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention! Colleagues, pay attention! Once again, I'm going to propose to BPP to return to two laws, colleagues. I ask you to determine by voting. I suggest we go back to the two laws of 5556 and 5670. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Two laws. Please vote. [[14:12:17]] For 207 Colleagues, this is an unacceptable situation. Attention! It is impossible to give a word. We have three minutes to make a decision. Attention, colleagues! Attention! Attention, colleagues! Once again, I'm going to ask the committee to return to one law. If we don't make a decision, we'll continue the discussion after lunch. But we can't help but make a decision. Colleagues, I very much ask everyone responsiblely, responsibly. I'm once again proposing to the committee to go back to 5679d to one bill. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:13:12]] For 207 207. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! I don't need advice right now. Listen carefully. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking for your attention right now. Can you all hear me? You can, right? So now we have two choices. Attention! Can the Hall calm down during its consideration of the Language Law? Either we're making a decision now, or we're going to continue the discussion after lunch. I warn you, after lunch, it's a much higher risk. Colleagues, pay attention! I ask you now to support the proposal to continue the consideration of the sitting before the end of this matter. Is it accepted? And I'll give all the factions a minute. Have you agreed, colleagues, to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the review of the Language Law? Roger that. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to continue the consideration of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the draft Law on Languages. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:14:46]] For 248 Decision taken. Now I'm going to give you a word for each faction of one minute. Here we go. From the faction of Peter Dustenka. Who's going to perform one minute? All factions one minute at a time. All right, let's get out of here. First from the People's Front. Who? Princess, please. One minute from the factions of communication.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! I'm just encouraging you to read the laws. I would have supported the law of Lesyuk, but I have, you know, a responsibility to the future, because this law actually legalizes regional languages and encourages separatism. Although regional languages are not directly mentioned in the project, they are actually introduced. Each village can declare itself a place of use as a minority and begin to fight for its rights. In the absence of formal legal mechanisms for the implementation of their rights, the fight will go to an informal plane and what an important fight will go under the anti - Ukrainian slogans and will break society apart. We've taken your proposals into account and we'll take that into account, once again, your law of the BP faction with the letter "d" on which we worked and your deputies were the most active. Jaroslav, don't split the country. I think they're looking at all of our candidates for presidents, and some of them are here in the hall and we're embarrassed and we're worried about the future. Take your law off, we're not against you. We're fighting with you for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u232	Thank you. Let's move on to the requirements. From the Radical Party Oleg Lazko 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u233	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. President Prašenko has deployed boards all over the country, "Faith. Language. Army." When the President's message was discussed here, I said to him that the question of faith, language, the army is pre-election speculation and technology. Today's vote in parliament, when the Presidential faction does not support the Ukrainian Language Act, confirms this for the whole country, that for President Dustenka the question of faith, language, the army is pure water of speculation, what he's been doing his whole life. Today, he tries to deceive the people from the boards, as he loves the Ukrainian language. You love, Peter, Ukrainian, give your command to vote for the language laws. You love Ukraine, so speak Ukrainian in your family and environment. And when a Pharisee is brought on board, and here, in Parliament, important Language Laws are being broken, they are once again trying to overwhelm the people. We will open our eyes to the people because we are the voice of the people and the Ukrainians in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u234	Thank you. It's from Oxana Biozor's Petar Dust Block. Please, Mrs. Oksana. We're going by the size of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u235	Colleagues, Law 5556 signed 33 national MPs, who today represent all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, it is not the law of BPT. I'll comment on what you're saying about regional policy. Forgive me, but national minorities, they don't live in the air, national minorities live in specific areas where they are near their borders, their national states where they use their language, and our law allows them to use their language to the full. There is no separatism or manipulation, and you have a kiwalovo article that has passed since the law of Kivalovo. So please, we have today, let's see, you see, we have no other option, we have no other option than to make a joint decision, a joint decision. Let's not be a ping-pong from one side to the other. What, we cannot unite, two laws unite, and make one right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u236	Give me 30 seconds. We're done, aren't we? Eugene Ribczynski. Please, one minute, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u237	Russia and Moscow are more afraid of Ukrainian than nuclear bombs, and this is what you can see in this room. And today we see clearly who are the real agents of the Kremlin, who are fighting real language today, with the state. Who destroys the first-born. The very foundation of statehood. I call on the B.P., which. Most of whom, boys, I love and respect very much, today -- and girls too -- vote for 5670 and not make their boss very much of a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u238	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking for everyone's attention! I'm underlining again, everyone! Our task here today is not to try to destroy each other politically but to vote in favour of the Language Law. This is a matter of national security for our nation. This is a question of being, don't turn into political pre-election debates, I beg you, and I beg you, as a person who has given much in his life to do so. Now I'm going to give the word to the person who will solve the problem in his speech and we're going to adopt the law in two minutes. That's what's going to happen, because my goal is to adopt the law. Igor Green, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u239	Friends! You're all interested in the position of our faction, and you're about to hear it. We want all of us and you and we to learn from history. More than once, Ukraine has become a hostage, indeed, of political debate and struggle, which is the greater patriot. We will vote in favour of this law that you insist on. On our own side, on our second reading, we will insist on taking all the rights into account so that the inescapable things of this law will be thrown out. We're doing this, believe me, from just one thought that Ukraine is still in danger and you're doing everything you can to push it into the chasm. But we're not going to give it up and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u240	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm using my right to stop the discussion and now I'm going to make an offer to go back to 5670. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 5670-d. And I welcome the Peter Dust Block. Please vote, please support the return to 5670-d. Vote, colleagues, for your return. I'd like to vote 5670-d, assisted by a committee. We're voting for the return. We all support each other, colleagues, all the halls, unanimously support each other. [[14:22:28]] For 263 [[Applause]] And I'm voting on the draft Law 5670-d, with the motions that the head of the Mikola Knajicki committee has written under the transcript, which takes into account the proposals and recommendations of the Venice Commission, with the proposals that take into account the Education Act that we have already adopted, and which takes into account the proposals that we have adopted when making quotas for radio and television, as well as reducing the number of executive structures, including filming such an institution as "speaking inspectors" -- with those rights, the 5670-d bill on the basis. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote! We're backing up! Every patriot in the room supports this law. It is a unifying law, it is a fundamental law, it is a matter of our honor and our responsibility. [[14:23:27]] For 261 Decision taken. Welcome to the Ukrainian Hall! One day, here in the hall, we couldn't stop Kevalchenka-Kivalova Law. I did everything we could to do that. We looked forward to the day and the moment when we would be able to get out again and adopt European modern law in a normal European and modern debate. Hello, everyone! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u241	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u242	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, allow me to make a brief announcement. Earlier today, the Committee of European Integration held a campaign with the president’s wife and public figures, drawing Angels — Angels of Hope on Old Wooden Tiles — with the roof of the Church of St. George in Drogobych. At 14 o'clock, right now, half an hour like this, these works are auctioned on the first floor of the Supreme Council as part of the Angels of Hope charity project. And all the money that comes from this charity project, they go to the centre of the rehabilitation of ATO Phoenix soldiers. Please come and see and support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m0.u244	Thank you. I still want to make a message. Mrs. Oksana Korczynska, Mrs. Oksana, I would like to report that there was also a signature of Oksana Korczynska during the registration of the sanctions bill. But from the technical point of view, your name didn't come up with a list. I publicly announce that Oksana Korchinska was co-author of the Sanctions Act and she's been very involved in the development of this law. And I would like to make a public announcement that Mrs. Oksana Korczynska has made a great contribution to the adoption of this law, for which I thank you very much and publicly. Colleagues, it was a very important southern part of our work. We have passed excessive laws, and we have shown that the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament, is not only capable, but it makes fundamental decisions of historic importance. I want to thank everyone for the understanding, for the restraint, most importantly for the great patriotism and the desire to compromise. Colleagues, I declare closed this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 16 o'clock, we're starting to take off the inviolability at 16 o'clock. And so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
