ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u1	Good morning! I'd like to invite everyone into the hall, please prepare for registration. Please take all your jobs, prepare for registration. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:04:04]] 352 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Paul Volodymyrovich Djublik. Welcome to your friend's birthday. [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, I want to report on how I announced on the Conciliation Council, one of the key decisions this week is to update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. I am convinced that this is our shared commitment and that it is our shared responsibility. For a long time, there have been discussions in the hall about finding a compromise formula, how we can update it, and how we can choose a new composition of the CLTC. I'm convinced that if someone tries to leave an active old CDC warehouse, this scenario won't succeed, I won't let it. We have to find a compromise way in this room to select this week's new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. To resolve the situation surrounding the elections of the Central Electoral Commission, I have submitted and registered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. The law only provides for a change in one position: an increase in the members of the CLTC from 15th to 17th. This formula is the optimal, correct way to solve the problem of updating the Central Electoral Commission, completely within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In its time, the figure 15 was simply mutilated by the Russian Federation and has no fundamental meaning. The 17 members of the CEC allow the procedure for updating the Central Electoral Commission on Thursday. The bill is intended to ensure that all factions and groups of parliament are represented by the Central Election Commission. The recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe must be implemented and the Ukrainian Parliament must demonstrate good will for all factions and groups to be represented on the Central Election Commission. I'm convinced that today the national MPs support this initiative, we can make changes to the law, and this will open the way for us on Thursday to choose a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Colleagues, I'm sure we'll do it, a new CBC. Next up, colleagues. Today's important question is to approve the order of the day session. For several weeks, I approached factions and all expert groups to review and maintain the order of the day today. It's hand-delivered, it's in everyone's hands. But I was asked by the factions to vote on the order of the day session after the first law was considered when the mobilization in the hall would be complete. That makes sense. I support that logic. And that's why we can and can now move on to the law of second reading, and then I'm going to ask you to hold final consultations, and I'm going to propose that you approve the order of the day session. So now I'm announcing a transition to a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening. I'm sorry. Yes. We will have to go through the Rules with the prescribed procedure: statements from factions, and then consideration of the law. Mr. Alexander, the law will be under review in half an hour. Now come out from factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to record statements from the rostrum. Please. By Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, head of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the key task of each of us this week is to support by our vote the decisive and strategic initiative of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine to secure a course in the Constitution of Ukraine for membership in NATO and in the European Union. The changes in the Basic Law, proposed by the President of Ukraine, will provide a reliable guarantee of the stability of the European and European development of our country. We must be principled and consistent and not yield to the attempts of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin to take us away from our goal, to turn to the philosophers ’ memorandums, and so forth. This Thursday, therefore, the Ukrainian Parliament is obliged to support the initiative of Peter Prashenko and to make a decision that is favorable to Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, as commander-in-chief of the diplomatic front, has already done more than all the predecessors in order to finally get Ukraine out of Russian influence. And I would also like to inform you, my fellow Members, that yesterday, during the official meeting of President Peter Prashenko with the Ecumenical Patriarchate exarches, we received further confirmation that the issue of Tomos came to an end. The only Ukrainian local Orthodox church to be. You and I are witnessing historical events. Nobody needs to, I think, remind us that giving our church a car-cathal will strengthen the foundation of independence and the spiritual identity of the Ukrainian state. With regard to other tasks of Parliament. By the end of this week, the Supreme Council is obliged to update the composition of the Central Election Commission. The Centre's update is an important component of the transparent and democratic elections scheduled for next year. Anyone who opposes the update of the CLTC is evidently looking forward to falsifying and cheating the electorate. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko considers that one of the key tasks of the current session is to adopt constitutional changes in part of the restrictions on parliamentary integrity. Ukrainian society requires the removal of the caste of untouchables and the strengthening of democracy. Considering that the Constitutional Court approved the edit of the President of Ukraine in the summer, our faction sees no reason to delay this historic decision. Separately from the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko in the Supreme Council, I would like to welcome the newly elected MPs of the Zvanivian United Territorial Society in Donetsk. On Sundays in three constituencies, local MPs were elected, and all three of them won a certain victory by the Peter Poshenko Party of Solidarity. As they say, the results of the elections are the best sociology. And finally. Yesterday, on television, a representative of Fatherland, unfortunately, with foam in his mouth, argued that Julia Timoshenko voted in favour of recognition of Russia as an aggressor. It's a lie. Stop lying to people. Here's the vote, there's no vote for Tymoshenko. I thought maybe something happened, I couldn't make it, I took the vote on the basis. Julia Timoshenko's voice is not there. And here's the vote on MN17, which yesterday's colleague in Fatherland said he couldn't remember. What do we see in front of Julia Timoshenko’s name? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u3	From the Opposition Block to the word, the co-head of the Yuri Boyko faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u4	Dear Speaker, distinguished national MPs! In recent times, statements and statements by the authorities and the President have been about imposing on the population one thought that the Ukrainians were better off living under their rule. These advertisements have nothing to do with the realities of life and the needs of ordinary citizens. Instead of ending the armed conflict in the east, restoring the economy, raising wages and social benefits, the treatment of Ukrainians with numerous plots of cutting tapes, parades, and other sights. What mythical achievements are reported by today’s authorities when the country’s decline in production, crime, price increases, and tariffs are exacerbated? Most citizens are either depraved or forced to go to Russia and to the EU. The government's State Budget project does not answer the economic questions that are most disturbing to society. We demand that a budget be adopted, not for a further increase in the expenditure of the force, but for an increase in the social standards of the population, especially of the least protected species. To halve tariffs and reverse government price regulation on socially significant goods. Follow up on the Constitutional Court's decision to reinstate social payments to the Chernobyl population and make changes to the budget this year. Pay our pension debts to our citizens who live in unsupervised territories. To increase investment in government development programmes, as an example, in the coal sector, in order to restore the real economy. Until we end the conflict in Donbas, all the intentions of joining NATO are the President's pre-election speculation. Any attempt to make a decision without the will of the people, without a referendum, will lead to even greater divisions in Ukrainian society. We demand that Parliament work in the electoral year for the benefit of the citizens, not for the pre-election needs of the authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u5	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, there are several key issues that we are invited to consider this week. It's a matter of changing the Central Electoral Commission, we absolutely support this decision, we need to vote, we need to make a decision. Sooner or later, this issue must be resolved because it is so right and legal, and in fact. No longer can this era be viewed for years, and nothing changes. The second question is a review of the budget that we are offered next year. The budget, you can say, is nice or bad, although there's nothing good about it, but it doesn't solve anything, because it's essentially the paper that the government wrote us from the ceiling and suggests that we consider, because they don't care what happens to this budget next year. I'm explaining why it doesn't matter. Still, because more than half of the ministers, business managers simply perform their duties. Someone was brought to us from abroad, they gave us, and they're sitting there, they're doing a number, and someone's just doing a number in this government, and in fact they're doing nothing, and they don't have any responsibility with the budget and the budget programs for next year. We're asking you why tariffs are rising. There is no answer because, in fact, we all have responsibilities. Why a Breakdown in Health Care? There is also no answer, for as if the minister of health was actually carrying out the responsibility of health care, the Suprun was brought to us, imported from the United States, was an ambulance, and today it has been in charge of the entire sector for over a year. And then we're wondering why there's a breakup and a vacchanal. So first of all, we want to ask the question once again that we need to hear the government report, personally every minister they've done in the last year. Why do we have years of service, and how will they be responsible for making each one in their field? Excuse me, the same Suprun, as soon as this story ends with this power, will run from Ukraine back to the United States, there will be no responsible one, and Ukraine will continue to break down this area, which it fundamentally established today: there are no vaccines, there are no drugs, there is no systemic approach, which will continue with the funding of hospitals. How will reform take place? Will it end? This is a typical example of when, instead of professional ministers in the government of Ukraine, a performer of duties. Some ministers wrote their release applications more than a year ago, took their things and left the offices. Why is it still there? That's why we're addressing the President of Ukraine, the government, the ruling coalition: make proposals for new ministers, for a new composition of government, and let's look at it and vote. And let us listen to every minister and do what they have done for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u7	Thank you. And I invite you to the word of the People's will of the People's Deputy of Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u8	Eugene Ribczynski, Bologna district of Kyiv Gentlemen, this week we have to consider a number of very important issues about the social protection of journalists, ATO soldiers, militias, police officers, and so on and so forth. But I think that all social protection is based on the background of war and peace. It seems to me that the best social protection will be to stop or win this war. And we have to do everything we can to bring this process to an end, a process of armed conflict in Donbas. During that week, Mr. Volker, an official of the United States in Ukraine, met with the heads of factions in Ukraine, and he stressed that we should immediately adopt the Donbas Special Status Act. You know, a few years ago, we were absolutely against that law, thinking that there could be no special status in the unitary state in any region. But in fact, this was always the situation in Donbas: Donbas had the biggest money, the biggest money, the biggest budgets in Ukraine. Donbas is the largest, I would say, Ukrainian livestock, and there were always up to six million people, and this is, again, the largest region. So the special status has always been, and nothing strange about the adoption will be this law. But this will enable our European partners, our American colleagues, to introduce new sanctions against Russia, which will finally launch Moscow for the plentus. And last but not least, I would like to say a very important thing: exactly 400 years ago, September 18-19, 1618, the German of Ukraine, Peter Sagydachny, took Moscow in these days. He, along with Michael Dorosenko, took the siege of the Moscow Principality, liberated Prince Vladislav and forced Russia and then Moscow to sign it shamefully for her. a disgraceful treaty, under which both Montenegro and the Novgorod-Volin region were leaving Moscow. I would like Ukraine to win so that the Sagaidaks will be among us and we will finally celebrate the victory at Donbassa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Yegor Sobolev of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u10	We propose to bring Attorney General Yuri Lucenk to justice. There's probably no person in the country right now who hasn't heard of the last decision of the Henprosecutorate to betray Russia, to officially betray the Ingusha who was hiding in Ukraine from Russian persecution. He was released under the pretext that Russia considered him an enemy and appealed to the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine. And the U.S. Attorney General's Office went to meet her. Russia considers itself an enemy of 90 percent of the world. Who will be next published by Yuri Lucenko and his subjects? We notice that these stories happen every week. Last time we were going to the polls, the Attorney General came up with a cell phone from a journalist named Natalia Sedletsky, and he wants to study it in 17 months. In addition, the Attorney General is personally responsible for the failure of the investigation into the case of Hennady Kernes. His subordinates simply did not go to court and the court was forced to close the case. This, I repeat, is happening every week, and it is the responsibility of the President of Ukraine, who has proposed to the Attorney General Yuri Lucenk, and the national deputies who have agreed. Self-help then voted with red buttons against, and was warned that this decision could not be made. Every week, every month he's in office confirms that. Parliament has to fix this. Yuri Lucenko has nothing to do with national interests or with the law or with the Attorney General’s Office. We call on each of the national deputies to express their mistrust with their signature to Yuri Lucenka and to consider the question of his resignation. This parliamentary mandate is enshrined in the Constitution, and this will be approved by the vast majority of citizens who see Lucenko covering top-corruption and actually helping the enemies of Ukraine recently open.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Radical Party, I invite you to the words of the national deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team's main claim to this budget is to preserve poverty. Social parameters, wages, pensions, the assistance provided for in this budget do not allow adults to meet their needs properly, condemn pensioners to begging and to eternal poverty. The minimum wage is 4 thousand 173 dollars a month, as proposed in the new year's budget, let those who offer it live on the salary. Even according to the Ministry of Social Policy, the minimum wage is 6.5,000 dollars. We workers, adults, are offered to pay below the minimum wage. Then they wonder why millions of people travel in Poland, Portugal, and elsewhere. How can poverty be overcome? How can you stop working migration? How can the country’s economy be restored if Ukrainians cannot earn a living at home to feed their family in order to meet their needs? According to experts in the Radical Party, the minimum wage that more than 4 million people receive in Ukraine today should be at least 6,000 dollars a month. That is what we require of the government when it comes to redesigning the budget. An increase in the minimum wage will provide additional resources to the pension fund’s budget of 40 billion dollars. This resource can be used to recalculate pensions for colporteurs, for blacksmiths, for military personnel, for other categories of pensioners. Today, 4 million retirees receive a minimum pension: one and a half thousand dollars a month. The implementation of the Radical Party’s requirements will allow four million pensioners to raise their pension by at least a thousand dollars from the new year. Thus, government requirements include an increase in the minimum wage, a recalculation of pensions for millions of pensioners, primarily for shoplifters who have a large job and a meager one-and-a-half thousand dollars of pension. And the third most important is tariffs, the cost of prices, and the result is the cost of a utility. When the government, the President, the parliamentary majority assume an obligation to raise prices for gas, utilities, tariffs, while denying the Ukrainians the right to receive a decent, decent pension, it is in fact to condemn people to exile from their own country. When the President tells us that the minimum wage of 4,000 and 200 dollars is a waste of cheap labor, how much it takes to be cut off from the people in order to carry an ax that doesn't match the reality! Because they don't go shopping in pharmacies, they don't pay for utilities, they don't know how much it costs, and they don't know how poor people live. We know that and we're trying to raise revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u13	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, I invite you to the words of National Deputy Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u14	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, the closer the election of the President of Ukraine, the more Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian society hear calls for membership in NATO and the European Union. Is that bad or good? That's good, but I'm concerned that this question is becoming more and more the subject of political speculation. What do I mean? I would like to remind you that immediately after the Russian aggression began in March 2014, the "Batakščina" faction proposed a return to the NATO and European Union membership formula, which was thrown out by the Januković regime in 2010. This bill, with the proposal of the Fatherland faction, was still pending, the Supreme Council's previous call did not have political will, and only in the next composition of the Supreme Council, in today's warehouse, did a weaker formula in December than it was in 2003, and in 2014, at the suggestion of the Fatherland on the course, the restoration of the NATO membership rate. Why is this happening? The point is that only in December 2014 was the proposal accepted in a weakened formulation. They didn't listen to the "Paternity" proposal, which was finally voted in June last year, which was a big achievement -- the return to NATO membership. The point is that the June 2017 formula repeats the formula that was adopted back in Kuchma's day in 2003. I want to say that right then, in 2014, Julia Timoshenko and the Fatherland faction offered to hold a referendum on NATO membership. These plans, despite constitutionally collected signatures, were then demolished by the newly elected President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that a presidential candidate in May 2014 on the issue of NATO membership stated that NATO's statute, which does not exist, prohibits a country that is in a state of war, membership in NATO. I would like to state with full responsibility that there is no NATO statute. There's the Washington Treaty. And there is no such article in the Washington Treaty. Today we see calls for a change in the Constitution, for a position on European, for Euro-Atlantic integration, for a course on NATO and for the EU. The Fatherland faction supports, in principle, this course and this idea, but in our opinion, we would like to turn on behalf of the Fatherland faction to the President of Ukraine as the author of this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u15	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u16	Change three out of five proposals for a change to the Constitution. The first is that it is not a European identity, as proposed by the President, but a European, Euro-Atlantic civilisational choice. The second proposal relates to the fact that the President is not a guarantor of membership in NATO and the EU, but that the President ensures that Ukraine's high level of defence is maintained and that its national capacity is strengthened. It's a full-fledged one. and the course for NATO membership.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u17	Please give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u18	The proposal concerns paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations, which was included in order to ensure Russia's right to have a Black Sea base. We suggest that paragraph 14 be amended to allow the Alliance member countries to use military bases in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u19	Thank you. And please, the last performance from the People's Front is the Burbak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u20	Congratulations, fellows! The People's Front is initiating the creation and speedy adoption of the Law on Registration of Agents of the Aggressor State of Russia. In order for there to be no speculation, I emphasize, agents of the aggressor state of Russia. In Ukraine a branched network of masked and apparently Russian agencies is operating. They take control of the media, juggle their political pedestrians, and produce countless seemingly independent public organizations, independent of us, and controlled by the Kremlin. In Ukraine, as elsewhere in the West, Moscow uses democratic freedoms and institutions for diversification. They're purposefully and cynically covering up democracy to spread chaos and confrontation. This has been proved in many countries in Europe and the United States. We believe that the media or non-governmental organizations, which under this law will be recognized as agents of the influence of the aggressor state, will be obliged on a permanent basis to inform Ukrainian citizens that they are acting in the interests of Russia. We suggest that this law apply exclusively to foreign agents who act directly or indirectly in the interests of the aggressor state, which is the Russian Federation. This law should become one of the guardians of the Kremlin’s influence and of the elections in Ukraine. We believe that writing such a law can be entrusted to the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence. I urge you to join all factions in drafting this bill. But this law must be prepared and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council without delay. This week, we will have an important and strategic vote on Thursday – a vote to consolidate Ukraine's NATO and EU course in the Constitution. The People's Front claimed that it was necessary to make such a decision a year ago at the party assembly. Today we call on Parliament to support this decision and make Ukraine's NATO and European Union path irreversible. The People's Front clearly supports this bill. We also urge the National Deputies to look carefully and constructively at the state budget for the following year. I would like to stress that the People's Front will not allow political games around the budget. The budget is balanced, and it is important to adopt it in a timely manner. This is what the national security sector expects, and reforms and excessive infrastructure projects have begun, and millions of pensioners, teachers, and doctors. In addition, the budget provides funding for the election of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council, namely the provision of constitutional rights for citizens. In accordance with the Rules, the Government of Vladimir Groysman has submitted to the Supreme Council a project No. 9000 on the budget for the following year. I urge all MPs to approach his first reading in a professional way. CVK. The question is extremely hot. The new composition of the CLTC is required not only by MPs and public organizations. More than 100 united local communities, where local elections have been blocked, are awaiting effective work from the updated CTC. I'm talking to my colleagues: we need to finally finish this electoral process and assign a new composition to the CBC. All elections in Ukraine must be legitimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u22	We support the initiative of Andria Paris and we will vote in favour of the bill to increase the number of members of the CLTC. And finally. We remind the government that the organizations of Ukrainian labour migrants are being turned abroad, requiring the executive authority to create a single body for the implementation of State policy on external labour migration. Today, Ukrainian labour migration is not just a matter of employment; it is a complex of cultural, educational, infrastructure, social, political issues. They need coordination by the sole authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u23	Thank you. So the speeches are done. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Replica, one minute, Ivan Krulko, please. And, colleagues, I now invite you to the Hall of Chief Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. In a minute, the draft Law 3815-d will begin to be reviewed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. On this rostrum, when the chairman of the BPT faction, Arthur Gerasimov, spoke again in negative light about the leader of the largest party in Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, who said she did not vote here for any decision. So, Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, I would like to remind you that on January 27, 2015, when this room voted for recognition by Russia as an aggressor, you did not personally vote for this decision because you were absent from the room, what does that mean that in 2015 you were against Russia being an aggressor country? Let's get out of our votes first, figure out why the BP faction is blocking the decision on decommunization, why we can't rename the area, especially Kirovogradski, who organized the Holodomor in Ukraine, because you're against your faction against it. Here's what you're going to do, and then you're going to tell us what the leader of the Fatherland faction is voting for, or not voting for, the biggest party in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u25	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u26	And I really have to do government work sometimes. Learn to be responsible for your actions first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, there's one answer to a very sharp political debate, it sounds very simple, it's understood to all Ukrainian citizens -- we have to go to work. [[Applause]] It's easy to go to work. While going to Parliament, when someone is going and is not planning to go, we need to warn the voters, "Please choose me, but I warn you in advance: I will not be able to go to the session room and vote." Then it'll be fair. Going to Parliament and not going to work is the first basic thing to disrespect your state and your electorate. So, colleagues, we move on to the first law. I want to remind you, I want to remind you that the order of the day session will be put to the vote after the first law. Please hold final consultations to get us a positive vote. We are now initiating a review of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on strengthening social protection for individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No. 3815-d). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, participants in the hostilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the purpose of Bill 3815 is legislative confirmation that the Ukrainian State equally recognizes victims of political repression and victims of Nazi persecution, yet condemns these shameful events of the past and gives victims equal benefits. A second reading of the bill received 38 suggestions, of which 25 were taken into account, 13 were rejected. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance support the bill. The additional expenditure for the budget is not more than 6 million dollars per year. The committee's decision: to adopt Bill 3815 as a law as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u29	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion. Right is not much. I'm going to read the ones that are rejected. So 5's. Don't insist. 7th. He insists. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill, which provides for the maintenance of a valid rule of law that binds the granting of benefits to citizens’ incomes. This is the right norm, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u31	Will you comment, Mr. Alexander?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u32	I basically support this, but this law regulates just two and a half thousand people. And the foundation that these people were in concentration camps, both in Soviet and Fascist, is a person's category. By the way, all we're talking about in Ukraine right now is 132 people are underage political prisoners and 434 minors. And the basis of this law is that there can be no obstacle to their benefits. Thank you. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u33	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. So I'm going to vote the 7th People's Deputy Pinzenic. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:42:17]] For-100 The decision is not made. Let's go to. 8th. He insists. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u34	Semenha Roman "Unification of Self-Help". Dear colleagues! The substance of the amendment relates to the sources that will cover the budget costs for the payment of travel aids to former prisoners of concentration camps and others. The amendment foresees that the costs associated with the payment of travel benefits guaranteed by the State today will be incurred solely on the basis of the State budget by granting subsidies to the appropriate local budgets for the stated purposes. The government has, in fact, been closing down financial decentralization for several years, thus overcrowding local budgets with non-proprietary expenditures. So it's very important that any compensation for the aid being paid to carriers be compensated at the expense of the national budget. Please support all colleagues who truly adhere to the principles of financial decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Answer, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u37	I support financial decentralization, so I'm saying it's the local budget expenditure, not the central budget. That's the first one. Second, there are 434 people like this. And in every principle, there are exceptions. And I'm sure for district administrations, it's very good that they themselves will know these people in person, see and help, because they fought for our state. 434 people, once again, 6 million expenses per year from the budget. In order for us to carry out that rule, what you're saying is that we need to change the budget, we need to vote on a lot of laws. It's impossible to do that. And when we adopt the next budget next year, we'll take it all into the next budget. And now it's impossible to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u38	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the number eight national deputy of Semimenach. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:45:00]] For 101 The decision is not made. 101. 9th. He insists, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u39	I'm in the middle of a discussion, you know, when I hear our colleagues' comments, when we estimate the size of local government budgets, I always want to say, stop looking at the neighbor's fridge. This is money and the cost of local self - government, let us respect it. The corresponding article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine makes this clear. Basically, this is about the number of definitions and transparency. The amendment provides for transparency and support for the passage of former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps. The calculation of the numbers today is not transparent, in the state, and there is still no single social register of all recipients of social assistance. It is therefore right that we propose to regulate the calculation of passenger credit on bus routes of general use in order to determine the amount of compensation for the costs of car carriers that are offset by budgetary costs. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u40	One: about looking at another refrigerator. I mean, unlike you, I'm a major MP, and I know very well all the problems that are in place, and I don't support the proportional election bill, but I support the majority bill exclusively so everyone knows that it's going through. That's the first one. The other one. But you said it all right, but it's the Nazi Persecution Victims Act. And what you're saying is you have to change the Roads Act, where you have to change all the rules and everything else. So please, there's a profile committee -- a transport committee, let it change this. Your standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u41	Thank you. So I'm betting on the vote number nine. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:47:04]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 19th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 21st, it doesn't. 27th. Do Not Urge 28th. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. So, dear colleagues, we've completed the discussion of draft Law 3815-d and we can move on to making a decision. I ask all heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are moving on to the decision-making process. And please, one minute to Alexander Trelyakow. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you and say that this is the first law when we compare different categories by virtue of the benefits. Different categories are, for the first time, I'm talking about those who have suffered from fascists and Communists. For the first time in Ukraine, we compare them with the benefits. This is a sign bill, and I'm asking Parliament to support it, everyone else, what we said, some comments, some laws that need to be changed, we're going to change when we adopt a new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. I see there's not enough concentration in the room. By that law, we had long debates. It is a great historical justice for those in prisons, concentration camps, to do everything possible to gain an independent state, and to have all of us here in this Parliament. We had a long debate with the government, and finally we convinced the government that the funds needed to support those people who fought in concentration camps and prisons for Ukraine were the funds that the government could and should allocate. I ask you, colleagues, all to support this bill. Everyone, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, sign of the vote, please invite everyone to the hall. I ask everyone to stop political consultations and return to their jobs. Ready? So I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening social protection for individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No. 3815-d) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[10:50:32]] For 199 I'll bet on my return, colleagues. I'm declaring factions. I announce in factions: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 90, "National Front" – 52, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 14, Radical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 0, "will of the people" – 6, "Rebirth" – 3, "non-fractional" – 20. So, colleagues, I reiterate that this is about honoring those people who fought in Nazi and Soviet concentration camps for the Ukrainian state who suffered from the two most criminal totalitarian regimes of the past century: Nazi Germany and Communist Russia, the Soviet Union. And I'm sure this vote shows the attitude towards the two regimes that have brought millions of casualties to the Ukrainians most. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall and vote responsibly by adopting this bill. So please come into the hall and take your jobs. So take up your jobs. I'm going to put the first vote back, and then I'm going to put the vote back directly. Colleagues, I read the factions, everyone saw who didn't have enough people in the room. Please invite everyone to the hall. Ready to vote? It's a sign vote, and I'm convinced that everyone who's not in the room will have to explain, including the citizens of Ukraine, and on the air, why they weren't in the voting room. I'm asking you to take up jobs. First: I propose to go back to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the social protection of individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No.3815-d). So be careful! Please all take part in the vote and please support. On your return, please vote and please support. Vote. Careful. Every voice matters. Vote. [[10:54:00]] For 223 So three votes, I see, didn't make it. And, colleagues, I'm addressing all those who are now in the towers. This is a vote that reflects our respect for those in German and Soviet for decades who have advocated Ukraine’s independence. And this vote is a sign for everyone in this room that shows how they feel about those people. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall right now. The factions, the heads of the factions, you see who's gone. Report to your secretariats so that everyone can come into the hall and take part in the vote. I'll read the factions again to see. Please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 104 People's Front – 57, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 0, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional – 27. 27 – non-fractional. So, colleagues, I'll wait a few more seconds. Please invite the factions to the Hall. Colleagues in beds, return to the hall. I'm sure every patriot, every Ukrainian has to vote in favour of this law. So I'm going to make the first proposal to go back to voting, and then I'm going to put the law in general. I ask everyone to be in place, to vote responsibly, and I propose to return to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the social protection of individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No.3815-d). Please vote, please support the return. We vote, colleagues, every vote, we support. Please vote, we vote for the return. [[10:56:26]] For 226 We're back, but a voice. That is why I ask everyone to be careful in the voting. And I'm putting it on the vote as a whole. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the social protection of individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No.3815-d), second reading and generally with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice, we vote carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[10:57:34]] For 224 I see. Only you, please, do not debate during the vote. I'll repeat it now, Mr. Anatoly. So please come into the hall, take your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal. So return. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 3815-d: respect for the victims of Nazi persecution and political repression. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful. Every voice. We vote in favour of the victims of Nazi persecution. Vote. [[10:59:00]] For 237 We're back. And I am now voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on strengthening social protection of individual categories of victims of Nazi persecution and political repression (No.3815-d) in second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[10:59:46]] For 243 Law accepted, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats, colleagues. I want to let you know. I'm asking you to stay in your seats. I'm on it. Colleagues, now one vote is the order of the day session, then I'll give it to you. Please remain seated. Like I said, after that, we're going to establish the order of the day session. I'm asking everyone to be seated, colleagues. The approval of the agenda allows us to unlock the issue of CBC. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And, honourable national deputies, in accordance with part one of the first article 21 and part one of article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, are introducing a draft agenda for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the proposals were discussed, taken into account. Now, the approval of the agenda of the session allows the committee to begin a review of the changes to the Central Election Commission Act. And I ask everyone to vote responsibly, to maintain the order of the day session. This is our commitment, this is our day - to - day session. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I am voting for the entire draft Decree No. 9091 on the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all the supplements. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. This unlocks the changes in the C.V.C.C. It unlocks the choice of C.V.C. Please vote. Please support me, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote, vote, vote. [[11:02:05]] For 215 Colleagues, me. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 103, People's Front – 64, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 14, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 8, Rebirth Party – 1. Again. All right, colleagues. Please, I'll bet. Everyone, please take your seats. And I'm voting on the whole draft regulation 9091, taking into account all the supplements. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Every voice, I ask you to support everyone. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. Roman, Oleg, I'm asking you to support me. Please support me. I ask you to vote. Hold on, I'm asking you to back me up. Please support me. Please vote, please vote. [[11:03:18]] For 227 Decision taken. Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 111 People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 2, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 0, Will of the People – 12, Rebirth Party – 12, non-fractional – 9. So, colleagues, I would like to say right now that I am giving the commission to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to review the draft Law 9090 without delay and to conclude that we can bring it into the agenda today and move on to its consideration. I am addressing the head of the committee of Ruslan Knazević and all members of the committee immediately at the recess of the nearest one who will meet and review the draft law. So, colleagues, I've just received a statement from two factions from Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'm asking you to let me know who. Two factions of Irina Lucenko are invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u44	Dear voters, distinguished peoples of MPs! Peter Poshenko's Block, along with its trusted partners, the People's Front, decided to take a moment to make a statement and to focus your attention on the fact that we are extremely pleased and very happy that the faction led by Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko is certainly voting on Thursday for changes to the Constitution for the EU course and, above all, NATO. Because the position of Fatherland and its leaders has changed so many times. And it's not just us who confirm that we're not being accused of running political battalions or negotiations there right now. There's a website called the Media Detector. And Yuri Lukanov, the journalist who wrote this article, I simply quote: "In 2008, when the struggle for Ukraine's NATO membership plan was fought, it was the position of then prime minister of Yulia Timoshenko that was one of the main factors that Ukraine did not get. During her visit to Brussels shortly before the Alliance's summit, Timoshenko ignored the directive of then President Viktor Yushchenk and did not come to NATO headquarters to meet with the leadership of the organization to confirm Kiev's determination to enter. Thus, she demonstrated that there was disagreement in the Ukrainian leadership on the subject. Of course, this was not the only factor in our failure. Shortly after the collapse of the PPP, the leader of Fatherland offered to hold a referendum prior to NATO entry. She highlighted her idea during the 2010 presidential election." The idea of the referendum continues to this day, members of its faction literally a week ago, two weeks ago, three weeks ago, claimed that the referendum in order to express the desire of the Ukrainian population, and today it is about 68 percent who want Ukraine to join NATO, talking about this referendum. But we don't care about that, well, honourable voters, but we like that the Fatherland finally leveled up its position and no matter what happened in 2008, why didn't we join NATO then, why didn't we get the plan then? We are very pleased that the leader of the Fatherland and the Fatherland faction will support the idea of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of the President of Ukraine in order to amend the Constitution for membership in the EU and NATO. The important thing is to be consistent in our policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. They were talking about "The Fatherland." Please, one minute of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u46	Dear Chairman, please comply with the Rules, article 27, paragraph 10. You have no right to comment, and the voters immediately wrote that we know what Julia Volodymyrna is doing, and if she doesn't come to Paris, then the state will be better off. Mrs. Lucenko, all the BPs are barking when the elephant goes. You've been barking at Fatherland all day. Please, we understand, you've got the Cloud, all the others, you've got the Separatists, you've got it all to yourself. You're just getting in the way of Fatherland. Ira, remember, you came into politics with the Fatherland. And "The Fatherland" was standing next to you. There was no powder when we delivered your husband. Oh, my God. And each one of you will answer for his sins. I pray to God for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u47	I recall that my last name was that it was my duty to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Going to work, colleagues, is everyone’s constitutional duty. This is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to urge all national deputies to go to work and to answer to the voters for their duties, for which each of you receives a salary from the taxes of Ukrainian citizens. So let's move on to the next order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists (reply to hostile propaganda) (No. 8114). And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a very simple bill in the second reading we offer you. The author is Kurilo, a deputy elected to Lugansk. This is about aids for the delivery of printed editions in the very complex areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. There is no need to say that Russian propaganda works very seriously there. This law is called upon to allow consumers in Donetsk and Lugansk not to raise the tariffs and deliver printed editions at the premium prices. There's only one right here. So I ask you to mobilize and support this important information security act in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, one readout, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite all the national deputies to the Hall. I'm going to read the changes that are rejected. Only one correction is rejected. So 1 line. The author does not insist. And so the law. The discussion is closed. We're moving on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Everyone from the bed, please return to the hall. The issue of information security is one of the most important issues today in the agenda of today's Supreme Council of Ukraine and the state as a whole. I think we're going to go to more systematic laws, but this law starts our general system concept to protect the Ukrainian information field, so please support everyone. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists (resulting from hostile propaganda and improving information security for Ukrainian citizens affected by military actions, whose residence is the territory of Donetské and Lugansk, where the Ukrainian authorities exercise their powers) (number 8114) on the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general on technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful and responsible. Vote. [[11:12:53]] For 209 We didn't make it. I'll be back. But I'm going to go to all the MPs: we need to talk about information security not on the air, but here, in the hall, we need to talk about information security with our decisions. Look who's gone, and invite me to the hall. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 93, People's Front 57, Opposition Block 1, Self-help 11, Radical Party 12, Parenthood 0. "The will of the people" is 4, "The Rebirth Party" is 2, non-factional is 29. 29 – non-fractional. Colleagues, please concentrate, Mr. Stephen, return to the hall. Please take up your jobs. The first vote will be the return, and then I'll make the whole law. So take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists (as regards resistance to hostile propaganda). Please support everyone, please vote, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:14:41]] For the 220. Six votes. I'll do it again, colleagues. So, colleagues, six votes. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate. On the issue of information security, the Hall is to be united by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask everyone to take a responsible part in the vote. Please, everyone, take your seats, come to the hall. And, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection for Journalists (resisting against enemy propaganda) (No.8114). Everyone, please vote carefully, and I ask you to support me. Colleagues, every voice, return to your seats. Please vote and support the country's information security issue. Vote. Vote. Vote. [[11:16:16]] For 239. 239, yes. We're back. I now put to the vote draft Law 8114 in the second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, carefully and responsibly. Vote, please. [[11:16:47]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 105, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 2, Self-Help – 7, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 0, Will of the People – 11, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 35. Colleagues, the law has been passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Extractive Industries Transparency Act (6229). This is also a second reading. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bilkov Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to the Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (Registration No. 6229), authored by 21 national deputies in this room. In fact, the bill was adopted in the first reading on March 1, 2018. Sadly, we were unable to support the second reading in July. A few warnings in several factions. We met separately with the authors of the new amendments. We talked to the authors who had already made their amendments, tried to find a balanced version, which today would really ensure that investments in gas are actually made. I would like to thank Sazkov, a colleague who was very actively involved, and his assistants, in this process, and even the gas companies admitted that this procedure was additional when it was applied, and in some ways it went to the final version of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for support in this bill today, because it seems to me that this Supreme Council should finally provide a transparent accounting of all the costs, revenues, costs of gas-intensive and other mining companies that would restore attention today to this very important sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Indeed, an extremely relevant bill is being discussed. Please, first amendment. National MP Rybchin, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u52	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction supports this bill, as it supported it both last time and the last time. We're for transparency in the extractive industries, and we know what corruption is here, which does not allow the gas to increase because the corrupt environment of the President of Ukraine is giving out licenses to its parcels. However, the "Fatherland" faction is abstaining from voting and for the previous laws that we also support because there is a violation of the Rules by Mr. Speaker. Article 27, paragraph 10, says that the speaker refrains from commenting and evaluating speakers and their speeches except in cases of violation of parliamentary ethics. The speaker also violates the slander of the Fatherland faction and its leader. That's why the Fatherland faction doesn't take part in the vote. It's the laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. And what the laws are voting for is "buttoning," and I'm asking the distinguished journalists and civil society to fix it, and to add to the leadership the button-crapers of those MPs who are "buttoning" just madly: 20-by-30 votes are added for the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u53	Thank you, fellows of honor! Thank you for an important novel about the need to observe the Rules. I want to appeal to all the amendment authors to follow very strict rules of the Rules, and when the amendment is announced, to speak essentially to the amendment. Basically, it's an amendment, not a political comment. Amendment 4, National Deputy Ivchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 6, National Deputy Mrs. Olya Belkova. Don't insist. Amendment 8, National Deputy Ivchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 12, National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. And so does the 15th -- it doesn't insist. And amendment number 20, People's Deputy Bublik. She's being insisted on. Please, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Transparency in the gas sector is essential. I'll give you a recent decision by the Poltava District Council: in a culinary, corrupt way 12,000 acres of land God knows who. People are being charged for gas, for utilities, for gas, and for purchase abroad. What are you, like, half-naked, gassy, rich, left handing out horns and hooves to the offices? Poltavcans have to pay 13,000 dollars for gas, and corrupt firms free of charge, without any competitions, without any tender in a completely opaque way get gas rushes. So I'm going to the Poltava District Council, to Governor Golovk to immediately initiate meetings at the next session of the Poltava District Council, to cancel the decision to allocate 12,000 hectares of nadr and to return to the property of the Poltava community the stolen nadar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u55	Thank you for your timely comment. At the same time, I'm asking that we do move on the Rules and still walk on the body of the amendments. Don't insist, Mr. Easy on the vote, just insisting on the rep. The 23rd amendment. Please, Victoria Bird, please. Don't you insist? The 23rd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u56	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u57	Please, Mrs. Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to thank Mrs. Olga Bilkovi for introducing this bill, because I very much hope that he will be accepted at last and we will find out who is behind some sort of extraction business and, accordingly, what kind of rent he pays. But at the same time, I'd like to ask Mrs. Olga that we have a structure like Dergeonandra that obviously needs to be reformed as well. This structure works in a transparent way today. And we know that even in the case of the adoption of the highest-quality bills, their implementation is also important. So I wanted to draw your attention and ask you a question. Are you planning to continue your active activity in this area, and is it finally planned to submit a bill reforming this structure, Dergeondra? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Please comment. [[B in m in s a l in]] I also request the Rules to allow for a normal job, not to interrupt the Presidency all the time. Please comment on Mrs. Belkovy's profile committee. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Victoria, for your question. In fact, if we are going to adopt this bill today, our next step should be to consider it as fundamental, and to reform an institution like Derjgeondra. Today. I also thank Mr. Oleg Lalashkov very much for raising the issue of the Poltava shell. Well, that's bullying at all. And by the way, this bill will also help us to understand where there are actually certain corruption risks that involve making decisions with overtures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u61	Thank you for clarifying the substance of the bill. I'm also going to all the amendment authors again to go after the body of the amendments, and that's the right thing to do. 43 revisions. National MP Sažko does not insist. 44th. Yvchenko, National Deputy. Don't insist. As soon as your amendment is done, of course I'll give you my word. 57th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 60th. That's not the way he insists. 62nd. Don't insist. And 64th. This is national deputy Sažko. 65th. Nor does he insist. 77th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 81st. It's a hat. Don't insist. And 82-and he doesn't insist. Because the committee worked qualitatively on the bill for the second reading. Please, 87 revisions. People's MP Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u62	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the fact that the Presidium is biased against the deputies of the Fatherland and commenting on their decisions when they are being drafted. Basically. And other deputies are tolerated. In fact, I note that my right is to grant authority authority authority authority to stop the disclosure of information if it violates legislation to ensure transparency in the extractive industries. What the rapporteurs said today, the Poltava region, other areas, regions where the test procedures, where the area expansion procedure is followed by the issuing of licences without paying anything to Ukraine's budget, are issued to their oligarchs, who then do so-called "joint licenses." They don't steal anything, they try to wait for some foreign companies to come. And Ukraine is failing the 2020 gas production programme and failing energy independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u63	I note from the session room that the Presidium is in accordance with the Bill Amendment Rules. Thank you to all the authors of the amendments that go around the body and make comments to all who make political statements during the amendment. There has just been an announcement of an amendment by the honourable deputy Rybchin. Please comment to the committee representative, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u64	Dear Alexei Mikhailovich, I thank you for paying attention to some of the aspects of opacity that are actually in the extractive fields today. At the same time, as I understand your aim to bring about a licensing system, I personally and our colleagues on the committee have not been able to agree that the unreformed regulator of Dergeondra for today should be given such a great right as may also be corrupt, directly withdrawing these licenses if they find out that we have not submitted anything to the company. Let's first reform this body and definitely address the issue of these "joint licenses" that you're worried about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u65	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, we have heard Mr. Rybczyn’s explanation of his correction and the position of the committee as to why it was rejected. I'm asking you to make up your mind right now on the amendment, please vote. [[11:28:08]] For-74. The amendment is not accepted. Next up is 88th, Mrs. Bird. Don't insist. Colleagues, we are on the move literally before the amendment is finalized. I'm asking you to return to the session room. The last amendment is 92nd, Olga Belkova. Don't you insist? Mrs. Olga, don't insist. And, I'm sorry, 97th Bublik, the People's Deputy. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the representative of the Committee is entitled to a closing word, summarizing after the amendments have been discussed. We thank you for the very clear explanation of both those who went along with the amendments and the committee representative that this bill applies primarily to normalizing the activities of the local authorities that issue the licenses to the right and to the left, and I really hope that there will be a vote today. Mrs. Olga, please conclude. And I ask my colleagues to return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, well, I've said quite a lot about how important this bill is. And I also want to emphasize that there have been a lot of companies working on it, representations of all kinds of investment companies that are seriously in pain today, so that we can finally open up all the information that society needs to understand in order to separate those companies that are positive, which are really negative, who really care about how well they operate on their licenses and do the business that they've announced. And at the same time, to separate those companies that are actually licensed today do not produce gas and other natural resources. Please support this bill. I also ask that the Committee, together with the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, be entrusted with a technical and legal process in preparing the bill for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Thank you to the committee that prepared the bill very well for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return from the towers now to the session room to vote for the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas. And as we discussed the amendments, we heard the position of all the factions that this is today a bill of critical importance for bringing about a system of licensing, combating abuse, corruption in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u68	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. It was a long way to go for this bill. The committee prepared him very carefully for his second reading. And now we have a chance to take a decisive step in overcoming corruption. This law is primarily an anticorruption law. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. The heads of the factions, I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall. The discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Transparency Act in Extractive Sectors No. 6229, and I'm proposing to the Committee in a second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. Vote. [[11:32:23]] For 244 Decision taken, colleagues! The factions, please. Peter Poshenko Block – 102, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 21, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 13, Father's Front – 0, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth – 10, non-fractional – 23. My colleagues, congratulations! It's an important law. Congratulations. And on the second reading block, the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act No. 7304. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and ZKH Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 20 June 2018 considered a comparative table in the bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund (Registration No. 7304), adopted on 15 May 2018 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all, there were 24 national deputies. All amendments are included, including 22 complete amendments, 1 partial amendment, 1 edited amendment. The decisions of the Committee and the demands of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are also taken into account in the drafting of the bill, taking into account the basic provisions of the bill, registration number 7304-1, submitted by the People's Deputies of the Kingdom and Solod, in the section of the extension of the circle of persons who exercise the right to social housing. The prepared project is aligned with the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 7304 on second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. So I'm going to read the adjustments that are rejected. There are no rejected rights. Please, Eutusek. Turn on the microphone. Please, Eutusek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u71	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, in fact, the honourable colleagues and the honourable voters, those who now have the opportunity to see us, from the very first hour of Parliament's work here, are very clear on the media that they are already trying to pin down the labels of individual policies. But what I want to say is, how can such an initiative be taken by the authorities when it is stipulated in the law that the main cause of the destruction of housing is not the ATO or the OOS, but the armed aggression against Ukraine? That's why I made the amendment. And I thank the committee that you supported it, that the housing that is destroyed, destroyed or damaged to a state that is unfit to live as a result of the aggression of the aggressor state. I thank you for this amendment. And the authority that makes such laws and records in the body that is being destroyed by the ATO or the OOS is a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u72	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Okay. So, colleagues, please, we're done here. Everyone, please come into the hall, take up jobs, and we'll move on to making a decision. Heads of factions, please invite everyone to the hall. So let's move on. Please come into the hall. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act (number 7304) in second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:37:51]] For 208 I'll be back. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. I'd like you to take the factions and see who's not in the room. Now I'm going to put you back, I'm going to ask everyone to take their jobs. Colleagues, I've come up with a proposition that I'm willing to vote without 14 amendments. So isn't that right, colleagues, with no 14 revisions? So, please, but first we have to go back. Colleagues, I'm going to set up no 14 revisions, but first we have to go back. I'll put it the way you suggested it. So the first vote is the return. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Social Purpose Housing Act (7304). The first vote is the return. Please vote. Please support the return. And then I'm going to do it without 14 revisions. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. For your return, colleagues. Vote. [[11:39:39]] For 210 210. Let's see the factions. "Block of Petra Dustenka" – 89. I warned you I'd set it up without 14. Let the voices come back, I'll put it this way. People's Front – 54, Opposition Block – 18, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 11, Fatherhood – 0, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth – 3, non-faction – 16. Guys, I'll put it back on. If we don't collect votes, the law will be rejected. I stress once again for the groups of MPs who stressed the danger of 14 amendments: I'm going to put the vote without 14 amendments, but we have to go back first. So I'm going to put it again on the vote. Everyone, please be ready. I would like to re-vote the proposal to return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act (No. 7304). I'm asking you to come into the hall and vote. And I ask you all to support and I ask you to vote for your return. Fellows, return to the hall. I repeat the 10th time: I will put to the vote without 14 amendments, but first we have to go back, you just be careful and vote carefully. First time I'm coming back, I'm going to do it without 14. Let's go back first. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote return. Please be supportive. [[11:41:33]] For 221 Five votes. I'll do it again. And I would like to point out that literally during the vote, a few deputies came out of the room. Mr. Arthur, a few deputies came out of the voting room and now they're leaving. Can you organize discipline in the hall and in your faction? So, colleagues, I ask everyone to come into the hall and take part in the vote. During Parliament's work, MPs should be in the room and take part in the vote. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Please return to your seats. I emphasize once again that I will put this bill to a vote without 14 amendments, but for that we need to go back to its consideration and only then can we do it. Please come in. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act (number 7304), the return. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully, every vote, we vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support, we vote. Every voice, careful. [[11:43:30.]] For 242 242. We're back. And now I'm voting on Bill 7304 in second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support, every vote, no 14 amendments, except for 14 amendments. So for the protocol: no 14 legal remedies. Please vote, please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:44:11]] For 244 244-yes. The law is passed. So, colleagues, we finished the block of second reading. We can go to the first-reading block. And we have the first draft of the Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. (No.8394) And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:44:56]] For 175 175-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP, author of the draft law, Iris Irina Vasilovna. Please, Mrs. Ira.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The bill is intended to establish justice, to establish justice and a powerful signal from our state to military officials who have left occupied and annexed territories and have remained faithful to the oath of Ukraine. Legislation has unfortunately not addressed housing and housing for military personnel and members of their families who have come from temporarily occupied territories and who retain the right to own or use apartments that remain in temporarily occupied territories. The draft Law 8394 was developed jointly with a working group of the Ministry of Defence, which has the consent of the Cabinet. During the vote, please take into account the transcripts that appeared after the consultations, which are agreed upon by both interested ministries and the copyright team. First. In "transitional positions" to predict that the law will enter into force on January 1, 2019. This will make it possible to anticipate the corresponding expenditure in the budget for the following year. The other one. The first paragraph of paragraph 2 reads as follows: "The military personnel who carried out military service in the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, who have been temporarily occupied, continue to serve in the military formations of Ukraine, as well as the members of their families who live with them and have been granted the status of internally displaced persons." Next word. Please support Bill 8394 on the basis and generally in such an editorial. It is not only the fulfilment of the duty of our state to military servants who remain faithful to their oaths, but it is a powerful signal that Ukraine is fulfilling its obligations as a state to its citizens. This bill is expected from us by U.S. Navy officials, who are marines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u74	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u75	I know that this vote will now be followed by military personnel of many kinds and forces, so I ask you to support the bill and establish justice in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The word for the report is given by the National Security and Defence Committee to Sergio Pashin’s head. Yuri Berezi. Please present the committee's position with the Committee on Safety and Defence. Please turn on the microphone. Yuri Berezi, please. From the spot, please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address and support Mrs. Irina in adopting this law, because he is a match for all the Ukrainians who, despite all the peripety of 2014, have all the assurances and conspiracies of the invader in Crimea, in Donetsk, this is the case with the military and Ukrainians, first of all, who have not betrayed an oath that has not betrayed Ukraine. And exactly the attitude, our attitude in this room is pretty important. The important thing is how we show them how we support them, what we have done, and what we will do for them. So I want to call on all factions as one to unite, especially all factions that are Ukrainian, to vote, all factions that are patriotic. This law is quite necessary, this law is necessary. And thousands, tens of thousands of people are waiting for this law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Yuri, for expressing the committee's position. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please, National Deputy John Sporish, to you, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u80	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u81	First of all, dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, I would like to admit purely to the fact that I voted in favour of my colleague Belkova's bill on transparency in the gas market, but by chance for the first time in my life after the incident, I've knocked on a completely foreign card. Of course, Capplin and our entire team for this law, transparency in the gas market must be irreprehensible. Moreover, we advocate the categorical nationalization of all the oil and gas markets, all the networks, all the oil refineries, all of them belong, to the nadra, including our nation, our people. And so it will be after the arrival of our political power by a new faction to Parliament. With regard to this law, I would like to say that he is deciding a colossal, legal conflict involving 42 articles of the Housing Code, through which our military personnel, who have their own residence on Donbassa or in Crimea, cannot obtain it here. But we must resolve the serious issue of a comprehensive solution to the housing of our military personnel. We have held more than 25 social policy committee exit meetings over the last six months, including in Donbas in the Syrian zone. And there our colleagues, our fellow countrymen, our military personnel, our settlers talk about the problem of number one housing. We have been working with the Kharkiv District State Administration on a targeted system program that will enable the state to build such housing and give it to the settlers and the military. We have economic accounts that will actually allow the housing of all those who have agreed to the position of European Ukraine, and thus the state will actually take its own interest in those who, for their sovereignty, for their independence, for Ukraine and against the genocide of ordinary people, against the occupation by Russia of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, as chairman, I am again forced to appeal to all those who make a request to comply with the rules and to make a statement about the faction's position on the bill under discussion, not to make political statements. Please, Maxim Burbak, I'd like to invite you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u84	Please, Igor Lapin, present the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to stop walking around the hall and go outside the hall and unite around the bill. You know, we remember very well how our military officers in Crimea, those who didn't betray their vows, came out and sang the Hymn of Ukraine, and we said they were heroes because they succeeded without fear of machine guns. During this time, we know that a great deal of military equipment belonging to Ukraine has moved through so - called separatists and Russian invaders’ blockades, along with a special warehouse and with families, to the territory controlled by Ukraine and the Ukrainian army. To this day we will face this problem that we will need. To support them. We can see. It's in my major district, Luck. Today, there will be one such military unit that has not betrayed the oath. And we know the problems of a city that can't in itself provide housing. So I ask you very much to support this bill, to unite around this bill, and thus to thank those who have not betrayed the oath. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u86	Thank you for the position of the People's Front faction. Please take the radical position. The factions represent. The Radical Party factions present Mr. Linko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u87	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. We will certainly support this bill, because the problems of social servicemen who have lost their homes, who have lost their homes in occupied territories and cannot return there, require even more support than those who have their homes here and live in their territories. But we have looked at the carefully proposed budget, which is proposed for 2019, and unfortunately, the problem of our military personnel in providing them with a normal decent salary is completely not reflected in this budget. According to our estimates, more than 20 billion dollars is not enough to raise the salaries of those military personnel who are protecting our country today in the East. Just compare it. For example, a sniper who performs combat tasks in the ATO area receives 15,000 dollars; a sniper who performs a show in the NABU and does not understand what he is doing gets 80,000 dollars of wages. This is absolute injustice today in the state that we demand to correct. Officers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are to receive more than representatives of law enforcement agencies here in Ukraine who earn space wages and at the time are completely ineffective. We demand that the issue of the contractual army that arose today and the security of the personnel that. The problem in the army today is that there's only one way to solve this: by raising wages. Oleg Láška's Radical Party team is constantly underlining, and the last time we were with Oleg Lášk's leader on the frontline on Independence Day, that's exactly what the military is talking about. We have a strong army, we have weapons, but what is lacking to the fighters today? There is a lack of pay because they know that their families at home cannot pay the utilities, they cannot buy the medicine. And how will a normal soldier protect the country, knowing that their family is starving? That is why we demand a regular wage of 19 years for military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u88	Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, I still urge us to discuss the bill now, not the budget for the following year. And now, the position of the Self-Help faction represents Taras Shepherd. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the very subject of the bill after we have heard of the gas market, the salaries of the military. What does this bill really say? He tells us that we have soldiers serving in occupied and annexed territories. And according to the order of the queue they were in, they got their own place. Accordingly, they privatized it, and they were granted ownership of it. Taking into account that we have occupied parts of our lands in Ukraine and, in fact, military officials who have not betrayed their oaths have returned, along with their troops, to the territory under control of Ukraine, they have no opportunity to exercise their right and to obtain adequate housing. Therefore, according to the drafters, the following mechanism was proposed that the State would be granted the residence of military personnel in the occupied territory, instead of allowing them to benefit from the right to have housing in Ukraine's controlled territory. And when we regain our control of the occupied area of Donetsk, Lugansk, the annexed part of all Crimea, the State will be able to provide this residence to the next military to provide for their social needs. So this is actually a decision that needs to be made today, actually, to support and show our military personnel and in contrast to those who have remained and have not left the occupied territory, that the state of Ukraine cares for those military personnel who keep their vows. But it is important that we, by voting on the bill, take into account the amendment that was voiced, because unfortunately, the category of military personnel that came out of the occupied territory was three to four months in the troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, succumbing to Russia's lies and returning to this occupied territory. So it's important that, in fact, as quoted by one of the co-authors of the bill, that military officials continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u90	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u91	who continue to serve in the formation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations in Ukraine. That is the kind of State that Ukraine should continue to provide and a positive example for all other military personnel. I call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u92	Thank you for keeping the rules and for your position. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing my sessions for five minutes so that we can finish, finish, more faithfully, discuss this bill and vote. A distinguished colleague, Mr. Kožemiakin, is invited to the floor by Fatherland. He represents the position of his faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, friends, not friends, those who want to say bad things about "The Fatherland" and the faction, and the party, those who once served in it, gave everything up to the last to wear party whites, wear badges and enter, with honor to join the faction. The Fatherland faction has always voted and will vote in favour of issues related to the social protection of the military and for everything related to the security of our country. Sadly, though, some politicians or politicians continue to say that the only faction and party today is a major evil in Ukraine. I remember the ninth year, 2009 before the President's election, when they were under the prison walls with me, the hospital shouted "Ganda out!" or "Julie Will!" I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues and friends, not to spit in the well, because once the map is there it's still unknown, this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u94	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u95	And the second. Our faction today received a few slaps in the morning, including from a speaker who violated Rule 27 and commented on some things, speaking to MPs. I wish he wouldn't do that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! We have a discussion to conclude. I am very much asking you to return to the session room of all deputies so that we can vote on this bill. There is still a request from the profile committee to comment on it now. I'll take a minute from the non-fractional, with your permission, as one of the co-authors of the bill from the site and I'll also go to the session room as one of the co-authors of the bill asking to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u97	And it seems to me that in the fourth year of Russian aggression against Ukraine, this bill is already our great debt to military personnel who have not betrayed their vows. And there is a proposal to vote on it with the proposed amendments, which Mrs. Irina Fries, and Mr. Taras Shepherd, on the basis and in general, if the room is not opposed. And I also want to take this opportunity to look at the mayors of the cities, where today there are soldiers and parts that have come out of the occupied Crimea or Donbas. It's rude when the local authorities don't support the military and don't help them somewhere, you know, find even temporary housing. Here is a positive example of Mariupol, where our Crimea sailors once entered, who did not betray their vows, and for the first months and years they lived in rusty ships. But then the mayor of the city, today the community is helping to find housing, and all we need to do is support it. And as a negative example, I want to give you the Mayor of Constantine and the authorities of Constantine, who today takes into the legendary group of dormitories where the boys live because they want to take it for some other purpose. It seems to me that the issue of housing for military personnel should be a priority for both central and regional authorities. And we have to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u98	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, if you'd like to come into the hall, please take your jobs. I'll continue for five minutes. Please prepare for the vote. One minute from the committee, Vinnik, one minute. And we vote. There'll be a vote in one minute. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u99	Colleagues, in summary of the discussion, will propose to vote on the basis and as a whole this bill with those rights that it has become effective since 01.01.2019 so that we can meet the requirements of the Budget Code regarding the availability of appropriate funding in the schedule. Secondly, the rights of the deputy of Irina Frez, who is being misinterpreted under the transcript, and the rights of the co-worker of the Shepherd's Committee must be taken into account in order to avoid any manipulation or abuse that may arise in connection with ambiguous interpretation of the individual clauses. Therefore, the principle of legal certainty is the principle that we must abide by when voting on this act in general. With the technical legal rights and with the remedies that I've heard under the transcript, please put to the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u100	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (No. 8394), as amended by the representative of the Committee, John Winnick, under the transcript. On the basis and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. We vote responsibly and carefully. Every voice. Vote. [[12:04:57]] For 269 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. I want to emphasize that the next draft of the law that we're going to consider after the break is the draft of Law 8490. I'm also asking Paul Petrenko's reporter to be in the hall. At 12:30 I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our difficult but important work for the country. So, colleagues, I'm calling a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Please. I would like to remind you that the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the enforcement of the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation. The bill is important, progressive. The reporter - minister of justice is in the hall. I'm just going to put a motion on the vote for a reduced procedure. If there's any votes, we're going to go for a shortcut, if we don't, we're going to go for a full one. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal that we have considered draft Law 8490 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[12:38:57]] For-53 The decision is not made. There is a strong belief among factions that the bill should be discussed in full procedure. And I respectfully announce the beginning of the draft Law 8490. And I invite you to the report of Justice Minister Peter Dmitrovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u102	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's actually an extremely important bill. And I want to remind all Ukrainian deputies, Ukrainian citizens, that there are about 3 million entrepreneurs working in Ukraine. In fact, 1 out of every 10 Ukrainians engages in active entrepreneurial activities to feed themselves, pay taxes, and support the entire state apparatus. Sadly, however, Ukraine has always been a country where entrepreneurs were not treated with respect but were actually used for their own purposes. For the purposes of pressure, bureaucracy and the suppression of any entrepreneurial initiative. And this trend has been in the last 20 years. Unfortunately, it was a trend and a business card of all law enforcement agencies. That is why at the end of last year, the Ukrainian government took one of its key initiatives to combat the crackdown on Ukrainian business. Combating pressure on those who produce an additional product in the country and all their actions are geared towards increasing the Ukrainian economy. That's when this initiative was called Mask Show Stop. Why so? Because it was from the Mask Show that Ukrainian entrepreneurs were associated with the arrivals of various kinds of law enforcement officers at offices, the rewinding of these offices, the removal of documents and the cessation of the actual operation of normal businesses. Imagine what numbers we've seen in recent years about searches. About 100,000 searches take place throughout the country each year. Each year, this number increases with arithmetical progress. So at the end of last year, together with business associations, with Ukrainian entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized businesses, we developed the first package of Mask Show Stop laws. Let me remind you what initiatives were included in this package of laws at the time. First. This is a mandatory video fixation of all search activities carried out by law enforcement officers. The other one. It's a fixation of the case that was passed by a judge who actually gave permission to shut down the business. Because we found that some judges spent a few seconds accepting such approvals. The third money that has been introduced is mandatory access and the permission of a lawyer to carry out investigations against a person. The fourth money, which was then prescribed in the law, is a guaranteed time frame for criminal investigations, so that cases that have been committed do not turn into unscheduled shows and soap operas against Ukrainian business for the purpose of taxing them. And the last, but no less important money that was adopted in law at the time was that law enforcement authorities were not allowed to reopen criminal cases on the same plots, in order to remove virtually "carousels" against business, when only one word was changed in the Fabula and one investigative body, after having chosen the entrepreneur, was transferring these materials to another investigative authority to take the entrepreneur in the second round. These laws, developed by the government and supported by you in this sessionary room by the constitutional majority, have begun to work. In fact, we see a positive trend. In fact, now a mask show is no longer a rule, it's an exception. We can determine this by the number of complaints that entrepreneurs are making to the Office of Business Ombudsperson, there have been 109 complaints about the actions of law enforcement agencies. In addition, 60 percent of these complaints, most of them, relate to periods that actually covered the period when the law had not yet been in force. And we find that it's harder for law enforcement authorities to put pressure on business now. But we analyzed as the Ministry of Justice these innovations and found that there are a number of gaps that some people are still using in pursuits that are not working for the law, but for their own interests. Unfortunately, we note, and this is the position of the business office and the business association, which remains the practice of re-infringing criminal cases, it's more masked. Provided that if a criminal case had been committed against the director before and that the pressure was actually exerted on the enterprise, they were now doing it more virtually, instead of the director being violated against the accountant, against other employees of the enterprise, but still the goals and methods remained old. So at the beginning of this year, at the direction of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, we resumed the work of the working group with our business representatives and developed a second package of laws presented in this room today. The essence of these laws is to allow an honest citizen and an honest entrepreneur to protect himself against the unlawful use of the law, to allow an entrepreneur to file a complaint before a court if the investigator has committed a re-criminal case against the same person; to allow an honest entrepreneur to charge the unlawful inaction of the investigating authority if the case is examined for more than one year or more than 18 months and does not go unwarranted; and to allow the relevant entrepreneur or citizen to claim damages personally from the prosecutor and the investigator who has allowed his rights to be violated by illegal searches, extracts or inadvertent follow-up. This is the kind of innovation that this bill contains, and this is the kind of innovation that we think will provide an additional tool to protect Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian citizens from interfering with their entrepreneurial activities, in their personal lives, and most importantly, will signal to Ukrainian businesses and investors that the country is still an area of comfort for an entrepreneur, not a territory, more faithfully, a zone where the entrepreneur is intimidated, pressured and pursued by demands. Dear National Deputies! In short and simple terms for Ukrainian citizens, this second package creates an additional tool to protect people from illegal criminal persecution. This second package of laws makes it possible to bring about a specific reversal in the pursuits of responsibility, personal, property responsibility, damage to a person, or an entrepreneur, or a common citizen. This second package of laws is the next step towards restoring justice in the country and ensuring that our law enforcement agencies actually work in the legal field and protect the citizen, protect the entrepreneur, protect every person who has the rights defined by the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to have a broad discussion today in this sessional room of yours. I want to thank the profile committee, the head of the profile committee, Andriy Andriyovich Kozemyakin, for his personal, personal, and development role, and for conducting the bill through the committee. I want to thank every member of the committee and every national MP who's been involved in the development of both the first package of Mask Show Stop laws and the second package of laws. I would also like to thank the representatives of the law enforcement agencies, who, in their absolute majority, are constructive and are going to meet business to protect honest business, to protect those people who are creating additional products for the country. And I want to ask all the national MPs right now to support this bill as a whole in order for it to become law and work for the next few weeks, and to enable us to clear up these latest responses from the Soviet repressive law enforcement system in our dealings with business, allowing honest business and honest citizens to defend their honour and their right in court. And I also want to go to the Ukrainian courts that are currently undergoing the transformation process. Please use the legislative initiatives that we are taking, by conscience, based on the spirit and the letter of the law and the Constitution, where human rights and citizens are fundamental, because without it there is no future in Ukraine without which we will not build, indeed, a country where justice and law will be. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. And I ask everyone to mobilize now, to discuss this bill and to accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Please record for questions to the reporter. I invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Please pass the word to Melnichuku. Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u105	I have a question for the minister. Mr. Minister, there's an example of the use of law enforcement agencies -- this is the Odessa area, where both the prosecution and the district manager, the law enforcement officer, simply and simply the owners were taken, beaten, and then planted in prison, even though these owners have been in registers for ten years, and there have been no changes. How's that working out for you? Is there anything in your bill to do with such protagonists in the entire areas of law enforcement that they should be dealt with? And the mayor, for example, the same prosecutor's office already, the Attorney General's Office and the central, well, Avakov is just dropping off.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. Under the first package of laws that we have voted with you, the Mask Show Stop, a Special Commission led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which includes representatives of law enforcement organizations and representatives of business associations, as well as a business ombudsman who is authorized to deal with such a type of case and complaint and to make appropriate decisions that are binding on law enforcement officials. Therefore, I ask very much that, in such a case, this commission, which is headed by the head of the executive body, be addressed directly. The other one. As far as I know, the really valid Attorney General is now doing serious work to clean up the law enforcement agencies of the Public Prosecutor's Office. And I'm convinced that such facts will go back in time, they're already going back in time, because only the legitimate work of the law enforcement agency of any person can restore citizens' trust in all institutions of state. And this law, and those laws that we're going to adopt in the area of law enforcement reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Next, I invite you to speak to the national deputy Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u109	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Minister, would you please tell me whether the responsibility of the authorities in the pretrial investigation has been increased? Are there additional opportunities for those involved in the conduct and others whose rights or legitimate interests are affected by criminal conduct in your project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this bill provides for the increased responsibility of specific law enforcement officials who violated the rights of the person, including the imposition of a mandatory personal responsibility of such an investigating prosecutor if it is established that his actions were aimed at violating the rights of, for example, an entrepreneur. Similarly, we give additional tools to our entrepreneurs and citizens to defend ourselves in court. If, for example, a person is not a criminal figure, an actual criminal case, but a person comes in with searches, takes documents, techniques, that's why. He had not previously been able to defend and charge the inaction or action of the investigator, since he was not a suspect; he was not injured in the case. This law enables every honest citizen and entrepreneur to charge unlawful acts or omissions by law enforcement authorities if a person proves that his rights are directly violated. And the violation of these rights is: illegal search, illegal interrogation, unlawful interference in private life. So these are the extra tools that we're actually using.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Thank you, reporter. And we're going to the report. All right, it's time to ask. Thank you. I would like to invite the co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Enforcement of People’s Deputies, Andrija Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, reviewed the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the enforcement of the rights of persons involved in criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation (No. 8490). This bill is a logical extension of the Ukrainian Law of 16 November 2017 (No. 2213) "To amend certain legislative acts to ensure the enforcement of the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation" (the so-called law, which we called "The Mask Show Stop"), and to clarify its specific provisions regarding the strengthening of the legal protection of participants in criminal conduct. The bill proposes amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code, the Civil Code, as well as to the Ukrainian Act on the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused by a Citizen by Illegal Activities of Authorities Performing Operational Investigation, Investigative Authorities, Prosecutor's Office and Court, in particular: First. Grant another person whose rights or legal interests are limited in the course of a pretrial investigation or her representative the right to claim that the investigating prosecutor is concerned about the closure of criminal conduct if there is no revocation of the decision of the investigating prosecutor to close criminal conduct on the grounds provided for in paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 9 of the first article 284 of the Criminal Procedure Code. And if you refuse to be satisfied with the problem, you will have to appeal to the investigating judge. Changes to articles 220, 284, 303, 309 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The other one. The ruling of the investigating judge to refuse the satisfaction of the relevant complaint may be appealed (part two of article 309 of the Criminal Procedure Code as drafted by the project). Third. Amendments to article 307 of the CPC have established that the approval of the investigating judge, who is satisfied with the action or inaction of the pretrial investigation body, shall be directed to the head of the body, the official official person to whom the investigator, the prosecutor, is responsible for the organization of the service investigation and the resolution of the question of bringing the guilty persons to justice. Four. It is anticipated that the state -- I will now tell you again, as Minister Petrenko once again said, that the State will be able to apply the right of return to the guilty persons in the event of damages to the investigator, the prosecutor, at the expense of the State budget, in the event of the establishment of a criminal offence in their actions, but also in the event of the existence of signs of disciplinary misconduct as a result of the service investigation. That is, changes to article 130 of the Criminal Procedural Code and article 11.91 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. There is no such thing right now, and there is no such thing in the history of Ukrainian justice, and there is no law enforcement work either, but it works and works in the developed European democratic states. So if the investigator or the prosecutor is acting unlawfully, if they are allowing themselves to do things that are subject to the disciplinary statute or the prosecutor's office, or the National Police: they limit the rights, they impose any insults, don't give God, even some physical influence, then all the money that the court decides to pay back that money will not be made from the state budget, but from the pocket of this infertile, sorry, the investigator or the prosecutor, or the employee who carries out the following actions. The committee therefore adopted a decision: 14 votes in favour, 1 against, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft. But after the consensus and the working group have made some changes from the faction, from the self-help faction, there are 3 amendments, members of the committee don't mind if they propose to vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Please stay behind the rostrum. And we're recording questions to a co-rapporteur. People's deputies please sign up for questions. Please. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, indeed, we have long needed to work with legislation to protect the rights of people who, unfortunately, today may face a daily violation of their rights in the prosecutor's office, the law enforcement agencies, the investigation. And here we have to thank our colleagues who are now looking after this issue. Unfortunately, the Criminal Procedure Code has been seriously balanced, and today it is being used by those law enforcement officials who want to gain some of their income for human rights violations. So, Andrew, we support this initiative. We hope that your committee will have more of these drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u115	Please turn on the speaker microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u116	Thank you, Valery Volodymyrovich. I would like to say that, unfortunately, we have done so, that every MP who comes to the Supreme Council today wants to make his contribution, his contribution to the Criminal Procedure Code. Either alone or with the help of those who work with him. So these things, they've given law enforcement today, let's say, manipulate certain things. I'll be honest with you, almost all law enforcement agencies against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u118	Mr. Andrey, as you're looking at that actually law enforcement authorities in the regions, they're committed to redemption in places, and in fact, if citizens, well, for example, complain to me or to you, to colleagues of ours, and we're trying to help them, then the higher authority just drops back into the region, they're inside doing investigations and things are just rolling around and so on. There's nothing we can do or help citizens, nothing. Is it your group of laws, the changes in the CPC, that the higher body should deal with it and order disgruntled officials on the spot?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u119	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Sergei. The point is that the whole philosophy of the Criminal Procedure Code as a law, like, well, let's say, the book that the law enforcement authorities and the judicial authorities are supposed to be working on, it's written about, what you're talking about: both control, and report, and complaint, and so on. But our committee has a lot of experienced law enforcement generals and people who have done one thing on the committee today to ensure that you have control of such matters. That's why I recommend that you contact us for my recommendation. We've been working our way all the way to, I'm sorry, the district department itself. And when they know that this committee of the Supreme Council will be in control, they'll do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u120	Thank you. And the last question is the Burbak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u122	Dear Andrew Anatolyovich, honourable deputies! I don't have a question. I have an offer. This law raises very important questions. What if law enforcement violates people's rights, someone does. If an illegal search is conducted or a person is sitting at the station, and then it turns out that it wasn't guilty, there was no evidence, so let's give the committee an evaluation and do an analysis, and how many times in our country have we paid the money to those people who were illegally taken to the hospital, and on what grounds has the court found that they were not guilty? That's not a question, that's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Anton. I think that with all the suggestions coming from the members of our committee, I always agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u124	Thank you. Thank you, co-reporter. We're moving on to the discussion. If you would like to prepare yourself, we will now record a bill from the MPs. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Massorin of the People's Front faction. Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u125	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Ukrainian People, Honorable National Deputies! Our faction will support this law in its entirety. Because the law proposed by the minister of justice, Mr. Petrenko, will help the state to compensate those persons who have suffered illegal workers from all law enforcement agencies. Today, we have a disastrous situation when a court judge who has not considered and violated human rights, searched people, planted people at S.E.S.A., violated other ways of their rights. Then it turns out that man was innocent. In all civilized countries, this is a very simple matter: the law enforcement officials must pay the money, the state must repay the money, and those who have violated the very rights of the people must be held accountable for the criminal law, and they must be released from the law. So there is a balance between the desire of some law enforcement officials to make stars in pursuits, between the desire to rob people through corruption, through raiding, and the fact that the state will be better able to prosecute those law enforcement officials who violate human rights. So I'm asking you to keep it in full storage. This law is not for the party of power, this law for the entire people of Ukraine. So I ask you to support both the opposition and the non-fractional MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u126	Thank you. From the Rebirth Group, I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, not many drafts want to support this subject. Unfortunately, more often, laws regulate the strengthening of the rights of law enforcement officials and the deterioration of human and civil rights and freedoms. This bill contains standards that allow some to soften the defense’s side. I hope that we can accept this, such a bill and then get it implemented by lawyers in the process because there are certain additional rights to the defence party. But you and I need to see a picture in general, a broader view of what's going on in the judicial system, see what they're trying to do now, and put the lawyer on his knees, and a bill has been put in place, and we need to be very careful about that. So we need, as a parliament, to look step by step at where we improve people's lives, and where we do more to strengthen their rights and freedoms, especially in matters where it is very sensitive, where it relates to human freedom. And I want no one to forget that in criminal proceedings this is very sensitive and we need to respond very carefully to the changes in criminal law and the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of people talking here, but in the last four years, there's actually been a distortion of the basics that have been put into criminal law. I would like to remind you that before that, there was the best code of criminal procedure in Ukraine, and that was recognized by professionals from Europe. We were on our way to school. What kind of legislation did we have? Today it's balanced, and today's bill will allow us to make some adjustments in a better way. But in general, I think that there is a great deal of work on the Andria Kozemyakin Committee to improve legislation that will strengthen the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u128	Thank you. I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, peasants and farmers, the least protected category of Ukrainian citizens, are the most affected by raiders and corrupt law enforcement. We know the story, our team protected the family of a farmer from Dniproperty. The man died, the body was not cooled, the property was reregistered in Odessa, and the raiders arrived three days later to seize the enterprise. Last week, the whole country watched the heroic struggle of the peasants in Kharkishte, the village of Zanka, the area of Znaka, which protected its own elevator, its own grain, its own crops. More than 50 fighters arrived in balaclava with weapons. And there were no law enforcement officers. We had to wait, God knows how many, those law enforcement officers. And those miserable peasants beat, took property, took grain, and took everything they were growing to feed their family. And these are the cases of the raiding of Ukraine for hundreds. And the authorities, the lawkeepers are corrupt because in Ukraine anarchy, because there is no order, there is no discipline, there is no responsibility, there is no harsh punishment for raiding and for those who cover those raiders. The Radical Party team is on guard against Ukrainian citizens, their property rights, and the Ukrainian villagers. That's why we registered the Law (No.9063), which is called the Stop Raider. We're offering all the land agreements, by property, by property complexes, and we're offering notation and video and audio-fixing so that there's not one that comes to grandparents and says, "The earth isn't yours," and we're showing a fake contract that this person signed. But a man can't leave the house, he can't go through a hundred yards on the street and he can't sign any leases for 25 years. And they take this land away from her and then they say, "Go to trial." How do you get to the area? What kind of money to get a lawyer? And where can you get health to go to court for years? So the Stop Raider Act is an extremely important law to protect property rights and the right to land. Why did the raiders put their nails and claws on the ground? Because it's the richest. Transnational corporations, corrupt authorities, raiders undercover. Everyone wants to rob the Ukrainians of the land. And we're offering to protect the Ukrainians, not allow the land to be drained. So on Thursday, there will be an equally historic bill in Parliament, initiated by our team of amendments to the Constitution to permanently secure Ukrainian land by Ukrainian farmers, by Ukrainian peasants. So that neither raiders nor transnational corporations could take away land from Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u130	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy of Semimenho from the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u131	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, respectable vice-speaker! The appearance of any bill in the Supreme Council, which strengthens business, clearly needs to be welcomed and supported. Last year, you and I already adopted a bill called "show masks" -- a stop that really made business a little bit better. It was to regulate the lawyer’s access to the search site, the need for video fixation, and the order of the search. But accept this point, which does not change the state’s view of business today. Generally speaking, 212 articles, such as the Criminal Code of Ukraine, have become a tool for requiring the state to become a business. In itself, it assumes responsibility for tax and congregation evasion, but in fact, it is now being used for illicit enrichment at the expense of business. Notice that according to the business ombudsman we adopted a year ago, the Mask Show Stop Act really improved the behavior of the force during the search. But the practice of pressure, the systemic pressure on business hasn't changed, mention the loud case of at least the searches at New Mail that happened a few months ago. And today, the pressure on business continues to be the prosecutor's office, the tax police, the B.S.A. and here, unfortunately, nothing changes. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill contains a truly progressive norm, namely, that it extends the procedural rights of economic operators for whom investigations and proceedings are carried out as part of criminal conduct. The project foresees granting a person a right whose legitimate interests are limited in the course of a pretrial investigation or her representative's right to file a complaint about the closure of criminal conduct in two cases: if there is an earlier and abrogated decision by another investigating prosecutor on the termination of criminal conduct of the same act and if the terms of the pretrial investigation and no person in the criminal conduct in question have been notified of the suspicion. But let us be honest that even this law that has been passed will not systematically change anything. This government and the Supreme Council have critically done little to bring the state back to business. We haven't reformed the State Fiscal Service, we haven't reformed the liberal tax system. Notice that even the draft budget of the government, which was submitted on Monday, does not even contain a tax-based calculation of the capital that would clearly reduce administrative pressure on medium and large businesses. So, colleagues, you need systemic solutions that will allow you to go back to business, to the business that today is creating jobs that today will ensure the growth of the national domestic gross product. The self-help faction will vote in favour of this draft law in the first reading and will support it as a whole. What Mr. Cosemyakin has already mentioned in his statement today, head of the committee, if the following rules are excluded: paragraph 1, paragraphs 3, 4, paragraph 5, paragraph 2, and paragraph 3, if such a consensus is supported by the Chamber, then the self-help faction is ready to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u132	Thank you. We also have those who wish to speak from the Fatherland faction, please. It's okay. I'll give you my word. Don't worry, I'll give the word to all factions, no problem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u133	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! The formerly allowed to rule with impunity was the family, the family of the president who had left the country. Today, this phenomenon has spread shamefully throughout the country for more than a year. I want to remind you that today one of the last violent incidents is the Kharkiv region. Today the farmer came and along with the Motherland went out on a press call and showed his back, ten bullet wounds, ten, protecting his property. I have to say that there are MPs here who, when they're here for the session, on their way home, they've lost their apartment. Colleagues, I'll give you some more examples. 2016 A farmer from Poltavščina, the Lubensky district, came to his field where John Dire collected his crops. In the 15th year, in Kiev, the village of Potik, they came, poisoned the shepherd, tied the farmer and tortured his wife, and then killed the farmer with oaks, where he died. Colleagues, Level 2010 Tribinenko. We all remember this incident, the Kirovograd region. First, they rewrote to an offshore company and then another company. You remember how we protected each other. Odessa region. The Dar farm was rewrote as a bummer, and then 5 million were rewrote to the protagonists, one of the deputies, from the coalition. How long can this go on? We've prepared a series of anti-rider initiatives, 8121. What does he say about this bill? The registrar must inform the owner of what is happening to his property during any action. And if the owner denies it, he'll stop registering for 10 days. Is the matter resolved or not? And quite a lot of other issues that are being addressed directly in the context of registering, where we've brought the DZC register to the register of rights, have brought up the second register that ran until 2013. Other colleagues have also registered drafts that provide video fixation directly during the time. introduce video fixation directly during registration operations. Let's finally stop this disgraceful phenomenon, because it can apply to everyone after that, because today you're a deputy, and tomorrow you're simple people, and everyone will be able to take ownership. What investor will come to this country if he cannot understand one thing: How can he protect his property either in courts or in registers? Let's vote for these initiatives. One. And let's adopt Bill 8121 as soon as possible, which is ready for second reading. And I'm going to ask my colleagues from the agrarian committee: let's take a closer look at the second reading, remove all the disputes, and consider a very important bill of 8121.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of Dhudenkova from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, really, there's a bill that I'm not going to say is very important, it's a bill that's called upon to rule out and destroy those negative phenomena that now exist in the everyday lives of ordinary citizens, ordinary citizens who face the system. There are so many laws in Ukraine, so many underlaws. In Ukraine there is even a Constitution, a legal, a truth, a question is whether this Constitution is legitimate right now in Ukraine, but we live by it. It's not about the laws, it's about the enforcement of these laws. Because the law enforcement agencies do not comply with the law that has already been passed, because the prosecutor’s office may disregard the law or the court, ignoring generally recognized, fundamental, constitutional rights and freedoms, violating the rights and freedoms noted in court cases, will not change the situation. This bill is designed to reduce the attorney general’s saviour. But the question is, Where does this all come from? And it's that since the 14th year, when the right of the street said that it was necessary to live in a different way, without the legal form, the consequences had already come. And accordingly, when people see us every day, on a plenary day, passing laws in violation of the Rules, so that the chairman doesn't speak to us here, but he himself is in gross violation of the Rules every day, when all members of the coalition accept budgets in violation of norms, thereby oppressing the rights of internally displaced persons, pensioners in their benefits, and neglecting their rights. This all starts with law enforcement. If you follow these laws, the laws are normal, but you have to make a difference between the imperfections of legislation and the desire to find a loophole in legislation in order to use it to satisfy your mercantile interests, in some ways the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, that's what the problem is. And systemic violations: the raid they're talking about, about taking out citizens of housing, are all systems that exist under valid authority. Perhaps these violations can be destroyed, not by correcting the legislation that we are currently considering, but simply by changing the power and changing the executives, who will clearly abide by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and perhaps not as bad in the legislative field as everyone here says. We switch performers and go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u136	Thank you. We've finished speaking from the factions, and I'm asking the national MPs to prepare themselves and sign up for discussion by the national MPs. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Reka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u138	Please, the people's representative of Bereza. Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with a speech by a previous colleague from the Opposition Block. I'd like to remind you. You know, if we did everything we could to get you all to jail for January 16 and for Midan, and not to be in the Supreme Council, that's where your territory is, there, it should be in prison. So you've always appealed to international institutions that we oppress freedom of speech, we do what we do, we do the wrong thing. But that's not what I'm talking about. Of course, adoption of this law is important today. I've been visiting a lot of S.I.S.O. in Ukraine for the past two or three months, and I've just been communicating with the different people who are there right now. And I think now, unfortunately, there are about half of those people who are sitting there who are deprived of their freedom just under the very legislation, those officials who were there before the 14th year. It's a pretty common phenomenon. And compensation, and the compensators that are provided for this, the hopes of investigators, hopes and procedural prosecutors, unfortunately, we don't have yet. And that's exactly the kind of thing that's so common in this direction, it's the first thing that a person who's been deprived of his freedom still takes some part of the blame, and then they let him go. Thus, the adoption of this law is both mutual, mutual, and human. I know there's a lot waiting for this law to be passed. In the first place, though, he will release quite a number of innocent ones from prison. But the most important point is that we still need to foresee the compensator and the personal responsibility of those law enforcement officials who allow for the moments of baseless accusation and willlessness. Because freedom, will is one of the most fundamental values of any society, any nation. But the main thing, I say again, is until we put the fifth column in jail for what they did during the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Next, I would like to invite you to the floor of the Ammelchenka People's Deputy. Please, National Deputy Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u141	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. According to the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum, Ukraine's property rights are being protected, think of 131 seats with 138. One of the worst positions in the world. And this is one of the main reasons why Ukraine today does not have large-scale investments, in the Ukrainian industry, in the Ukrainian economy. So today, the protection of property rights, the fight against large-scale raiding, must become one of the top priorities of public policy. So the Radical Party team supports the law that we are currently considering. That's why the Radical Party team led by Oleg Ljashk and our thinkers from various factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament passed Bill 9063 "Stop Raiding". This is a revolutionary bill that envisions mandatory video and audio-fixing notarization of contracts, alienation, real estate purchases, businesses, apartments, houses, corporate rights, land leases -- all those assets that are unfortunately being taken from Ukrainians by black raiders, registrars, notaries in conspiracies today. Then prove for years that it was your property and that you did not make an agreement on its sale or alienation in any other way. We suggest you take a very strict responsibility for the raid. We propose that we provide this video-fixing procedure for notary contracts so that no one can falsify these agreements. Moreover, there are legal precedents for this, since you and I have previously accepted the responsibility of videofixing the search procedure in this room. We did it with you through the Mask Show Stop Act. So today, I need to address the Parliamentary head, Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia, take the floor, vote "Stop Raider" 9063. But that's not enough. Because that's just how we're aligned with civilized countries for the protection of property rights. To win competition for investment, for jobs, for markets, it is urgent to adopt an industrial reform package. Industrial parks with tax incentives for new productions, to finally launch an export credit agency in the government to lose Ukrainian producers' credits at the same time to win external markets contracts. And to adopt the Ukrainian Buy, Pay Ukrainians for Systemic Support for Development and Recovery of Ukrainian Industry and Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u142	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Just as I was discussing the matter, I received a message from the village of Kaplinzi, in the region of Poltava. The farm is closed in this beautiful village. And people say, "Where do we get a job?" Why do people take a farm and a job? Because the country that talks about supporting agriculture, supporting farmers, doesn't really have that kind of support. This year’s budget provides 5 billion dollars in livestock support, for the restoration of cattle. During the summer, I did not find any farmers to support me from the state. Because the use of these funds is written down so that the support is given to the oligarchs, and neither the residents of the village of Kaplinci in Pyratinschi, nor farmers from other small and large villages in Ukraine have this support. Who are the farmers today? They're sitting with an office in Kiev or New York, renting hundreds of thousands of acres of land, draining it, breaking roads, draining the social sphere, exporting soybeans, raps, sunflowers, and no jobs for people. This policy leads to the absence of people in the village. And when do we get closures on mail, hospitals, FAPs, kindergartens, schools?Oh, my God! Please tell me, how can a person civilized in the third millennium live in a village where there is nothing?Oh, my God! How are you going to restore the village and the animals in the village, give the inhabitants a chance?Oh, my God! We're proposing a different policy. First. Changes to the Constitution in order to permanently secure the land behind Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian farmers! To prevent the authorities from enacting a law that actually depreciates the land for the benefit of transnational corporations. The other one. We're asking the government to return VAT to the government for farmers, the least corrupt form of government support. You don't have to go to government offices, you don't have to pay bribes, you don't have to wear money suitcases, you don't have to automatically charge VAT to a farmer and he uses it to develop an agricultural enterprise. Third. We propose a bill that foresees when a person rents land, one cow per hectare of leased land. You rent 200 hectares, you have to have cows and 200 cows, and 50 percent of the state's compensation for the cost of building this barn, compensation for the cost of agricultural machinery, so that Ukrainian combines Hersonian, Kharkiv tractors, Elworth tractors, not imported equipment that we pay billions for, choosing our Ukrainian tractors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u145	Only this policy of supporting national production, supporting the social sphere in the countryside, restoring animal farming, supporting agriculture, belonging to Ukrainians, only this policy will give the future for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u147	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Please give my word to my colleague, Vadim Ivchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u148	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u149	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there are three types of raiding: first, when they're raiding corporate rights, second, they're raiding when they're changing the registers or not drawing up other registers while registering things. We have, you know, a DTC registry and we have a register of things rights. A third raid can take place through court decisions, through executioners, through arrests and through custody or detention of other applicants. Colleagues, the second kind of raiding is just by register. We improved it by 90 percent in Law 8121, and you and I voted in the hall. I want to remind you once again of some of the points in this bill. Now the registrar is obliged to check whether the person who brings him the documents is entitled to, say, register or not. The other one. The registrar, in particular, draws up the registers of the State Land cadastre, not only the new one from 2013 but also the old ones from 2013. Today, after the adoption of this law, he cannot register the property rights without a proper extract from the CDC registry. And that means we're not going to have much of the ability of the registrar to submit data without, say, consent, or without a proper extraction from the FTC. Colleagues, there's an increase in the maximum responsibility of the registrars for certain actions. I want to remind you, just this Sunday in the Kyiv region, in an enterprise with foreign Czech investments, a combine and two grains came and gathered crops for one and a half million dollars. Colleagues, that's what I call it, "individually they come and take." This requires the work of law enforcement agencies. Colleagues, another draft for Mask Show Stop that doesn't work. We're bringing a lot of new stuff with you. And "Paternity" offered, and it went through the Committee of Law, to maximize the procedure during the search, we've completely written out what powers lawyers will have, we've completely written out what they will have, what powers the law enforcement authorities have, and what interaction between them. Let's just put out a set of anti-residering bills and vote. We insist, agrarian associations, an agrarian committee and an agrarian community that just today prefers raiding in every area to vote on Bill 8121. The faction leaders spoke about this. And let's finally solve the question of registration, which is the second point where we can change the registrations of the surname.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u150	Thank you. And final performance, two minutes left. Mr. Sergei, two minutes. Sągoniko gives the word for the performance of the Chaplin. Please. And please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u151	My speech is going to be summary, that's how it is. I'd like to address you, Mr. Minister of Justice. I've known you for a long time, and I'd be glad if you could hear words of thanks here for what you did in your position, fighting like a tiger, fighting back for a Ukrainian farmer, fighting for an ordinary Ukrainian man. You've done a lot in the Ministry of Justice, but in the end, the overall score of all the deputies present is not even 2-0. Prices for milk in Poland. 28th Anniversary - Ukraine, 16th - Poland Chicken 68 Ukraine, 38 - Poland Twice as much. Tomato - 12 Ukraine, 6.5 - Poland Salary is 3.7 and 16.3 in Poland. Agriculture has been destroyed today, especially because we are all together, and you are not particularly struggling with the biggest plague for farmers - raiders. The 11 ATO fighters on the border of Kharkiv and Poltava region founded an agricultural enterprise. The people of Beha came, you know who it was, the chief of police in the Harkow district, burned them up, took away everything that was grown, covered up by the minister of internal affairs, just took it and destroyed it. And it's happening all over the country. I'm talking to you. Surrender, form order in this area. You're still in the city of Poltavi, you're not putting a new city head in the register. They've come up with something. But all of Ukraine’s people, the common people, will gain justice in this country. But, dear compatriots, the greatest raidership is when they took 27 years, not the earth, but the heart from your body, and took 27 years of your life. Remember what 27 years you've been, how you've lived this life, what you've expected of one, the other, and the third power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u152	Thank you. So, colleagues, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u153	I'm talking to you. Today, efforts must be consolidated and all the mistakes made by the previous and present - day governments corrected. You need to leave your post with a clear conscience in a year and give way to new young parties, politicians, and leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u154	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Colleagues, discussion is over. Now it's a lineup, "The Cloud" minute, then a minute Petrenko. And let's go to the vote, colleagues. I ask everyone to come to the hall and to the heads of the factions. And I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite everyone to the Hall. Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, when discussing any matter, each MP and each faction has the right to express its point of view, which is what the Opposition Block does when discussing issues of importance to Ukraine. For today, I am addressing all colleagues who also have the right to express their point of view. Do not shake the ship of instability in Ukraine, in the Ukrainian politics, so you had the right time to do so. I realize that you can go to S.I.A., get to know where you're going, but that doesn't give you any reason to throw the stones away. I call on everyone, including the opposition power of the Opposition Block, and everyone else who is in Parliament: let's not stir the political situation, otherwise we will lead to a boiling point that Ukraine can have huge problems in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u156	Thank you. And, colleagues, I want to grow up to the word of Paul Petrenko. And to point out, there were proposals from the deputies. How many do you consider, and can we vote with them? Answer that question, too. Please, one minute. And we're voting in a minute, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! In fact, when an innocent person is convicted, it is a major crime. And I think that the adoption of those laws that clean up post-Soviet injustices in the law protection system that protect Ukrainian peasants who are the least protected, Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian pensioners and those who before, seeing the law enforcement authority and the court, were afraid because they knew that it was a place of injustice and actually pressure and abuse. There are many who talk and do little. But I know exactly what the factions of the coalition, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, Oleg Lazko, the government, Vladimir Groisman and the Ministry of Justice over the years are doing everything we can to bring justice back to every home. And a free legal aid system that provides assistance to one million Ukrainians each year. 500 Ukrainians defend themselves each year by the Ministry of Justice and are not thrown away for playing, as is not the case with the accused. These are the changes we make every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u158	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u159	The Peter Dusty faction is just like the members of the coalition. Everyone has to be responsible for their actions, first of all. And I think we have something to answer to the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian society for. Thank you. Please support these bills, indeed, to take into account the proposals of colleagues from Self-Help and ask the committee's own profile and committee head to conduct technical legal drafting of the law by adopting it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! We've got 15 minutes left before the break, and we've got a C.V.C.A. issue that we're looking at for a year. Is this moment worth it? I don't think it's worth it, colleagues. We're moving on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the enforcement of the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of the pretrial investigation (No8490), taking into account the rights that have been handed down under the transcript by national deputies Denisenk and Semenach, on the basis of and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleague, please. Vote. [[13:44:20]] For 321 321 – a.k.a. The law is passed. Colleagues, please remain in your seats today. We have two important bills to adopt. Stay in your seats. The first is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Norwegian Nobel Committee for the nomination of Oleg Sensov for the Nobel Peace Prize. We have to accept this today. There's a committee decision, and I'm going to put it to a vote. And the second. There is already a decision by the committee on the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. So I'm asking the first question: the proposal that we include the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission into the agenda today and we're looking at it now. Now I ask you to vote and I ask you to support, colleagues, the unlocking of the process of selecting a new CWC. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. Vote. Every voice, please support. Vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:45:36]] For 241 Decision taken. And also Project Decision 9040 on Oleg Senzov to accept the agenda of today's session today and today to vote. Please vote, please support. For the Sun, I ask you to vote and support the inclusion in today's agenda of the day's session for decision-making. [[13:46:03]] For 253 Decision taken. Thus, colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission (9090). And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. We're voting for a cut. [[13:46:33]] For 212
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we invite you to the statement of the author of the decree of our Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Andriy Volodymirovich Parubia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, choosing a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission is our responsibility and our commitment to the Ukrainian State. The Ukrainian Parliament cannot allow the election of the President of Ukraine and the parliamentary elections to take place as part of the CBC, which was elected in Yanukovic's time. I am sure that this is a shared commitment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our responsibility to Ukrainian society. For about a year, this discussion took place, and yesterday I proposed a solution and a way to bring together all the positions in the hall that could unite the hall and open the way for the selection and renewal of the Central Electoral Commission on Thursday. It's a simple thing: increasing CBC members from 15 to 17. I think the numbers don't matter, the 15 was just falsified by the legislation of the Russian Federation. We are interested in compromises and mergers so that we can solve the dilemma when there are 14 in the application and there are 13 vacancies so that we can solve the dilemma and have the opportunity for all factions in Parliament to have their representation, for all factions in Parliament to have their representation. And this way allows us to take political responsibility and resolve all contradictions. I want to thank the committee for its responsible position, and I want to thank everyone who is speaking for the update of the CLTC, who is speaking for having a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission on Thursday. I call on everyone to account, and I am confident that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will once again demonstrate its maturity, its responsibility and its high level of patriotism. I urge you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u163	Please. We thank the honourable author of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. And the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to Alexander Chernenko. Mr. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u164	Good afternoon! The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice discussed at its meeting on 18 September 2018 the draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission (Registration No. 9090) of 17 September 2018, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peruby. The author of the legislative initiative has just given you a sufficient argument as to why this law is necessary and how it will allow us to get out of that legislative clinche, political first of all, which the Supreme Council entered, without any appointment of a new composition of the Central Election Commission. At its meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission as a basis and, in general, in accordance with part one, part one, part two of article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Please register to discuss this bill from factions. Please, colleagues, please. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Mr. Liege! Please, Roman Semenha, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u166	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The question that we are considering today has an extremely serious weight. The replacement of the Central Electoral Commission, its composition, is that we have owed to the Ukrainian people, to the Ukrainian society for four years. But today, at this moment, instead of doing the conversion of the Central Electoral Commission, we're dealing with the question of how many of them there should be: 15, 17, 20 or so. It is extremely important that we be able to consider, in the shortest terms, the resignation of the Central Electoral Commission and select it in the manner prescribed by law. The question of choice is, more faithfully, the question of compliance with the procedure in this case is not a matter of the procedure of a branch law, of justice, of energy, of transport, of infrastructure or anything else. We are now discussing the way in which the body that will be responsible for the election of the President of the country will be formed for the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am no longer talking about local elections, and local self - government has gained much more weight as a result of decentralization. Therefore, the question of procedure is not some unnecessary ceremony for anyone, especially since we already have appropriate precedents on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have been declared unconstitutional by the violation of its procedure. So it seems to me that this is not exactly the chosen priority right now, and we're not looking at the issue of resigning the active composition of the CLTC, which is the question that should be the first in the agenda right now. And so, the Central Election Commission needs to be updated, it needs to be retired, and it needs to bring in those people who are able to form the Central Election Commission in an honest, responsible manner. But it's the way it's defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u167	Please, Maxim Burbak, present the position of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, this is a question of updating the composition of the CLTC -- not what matured, it's already matured. For the past three years, you and I have been breaking the files here to choose a new composition of the CBC. And I welcome the initiative of Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia, who registered Bill No. 9090 yesterday on increasing the members of the CLTC to 17 members of the CLTC so that we can finally unlock this process and assign an updated composition. I am convinced that the renewal of the CLTC is not just a requirement for national MPs, public organisations, our Western partners, it is a requirement and for those millions of people who are now required to wait for the decision of the CLTC to appoint elections in the newly created united territorial communities. More than 100 communities are waiting for a decision by the CTC. And I want to remind you: on August 9, this old C.E.C.C. finally disgraced itself by not assigning such necessary choices to the newly created O.T.A. that inhibits decentralization reform. So I ask you once again to support this bill so that we can unlock the process of assigning a new CEVC so that the newly created CEVC, which we will be able to vote on Thursday, will be able to immediately begin to carry out our duties and immediately appoint an election to the OTG. And then we went into the legitimate process of electing both the President and the Supreme Council, because it's not a secret that with this composition of the CIA, no elections will be declared legitimate. So we vote in favour of this bill, we unlock the process of forming the CLTC and updating the CLTC, and we update it on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, from the Fatherland faction of Helen Schrum. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u170	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, what is it now proposed to the Supreme Council? Last night, unfortunately, Mr. Parobius brought about such a thankless thing as I think he passed a bill to increase the number of CFCs -- it's a constitutional body -- from 15 people, as defined in the law today, to 17 people. Why is this done, colleagues? Of course, the issue of CEVC is extremely important, of course, by the faction "Paternity" and requires and supports the updating of the illegal composition of the CBC. We've been demanding this for four years. For two years the President has failed to submit, unfortunately, according to the Constitution, it is the President who submits, where he is required to submit a minimum of one representative per faction. The explanatory note submitted by Mr. Parobia to his bill states that the bill increases the number of members of the CLTC in order to implement the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we are rightly indicated that there should be representation of each faction in the CLTC. So I assure you as a lawyer that you can implement the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and leave 15 members of the CBC. All the President has to do is make a legitimate submission and submit a representative from each faction. You can't implement the Council of Europe resolution just if the factions were more than 15 here. You and I don't have more than 15 factions. So you don't have to employ an extra 2 people, you don't have to change the number of controls, you don't have to spend the budget -- it's another 700,000 dollars per year for 2 people as a minimum. We just need to implement the law and the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'm asking you to do it. I ask the President and ask the President to make the right submission. His "fatherland" certainly supports him. And I ask Mr. Speaker not to violate the Rules of Procedure, because as an MP, I have the right to submit an alternative bill to Mr. Speaker's Bill, to demand the enforcement of the law. Today I am deprived of this possibility because the bill was introduced only yesterday. The basic principle of the rule of law, of Roman law is "the law is strict, but it's the law." We have something, the law is strict, but in an hour we'll change it. Colleagues, you can't do that. We cannot change the law under us, under specific individuals every Monday. They won't come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u171	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u172	Our lowest rating now in the Davo Economic Forum is the predictability of our legislation. No investor enters a country where, under one person, such important laws change under two persons every Monday, a colleague. I'm asking you not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u173	Please take the position of the Peter Dusty Block to introduce Mrs. Irina Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u174	Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the Peter Prashenko Block has consistently supported the update of the Central Electoral Commission. I remind our distinguished factions of the opposition that the President of Ukraine, within the full framework of the procedure provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, the Central Election Commission Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already issued two updates to the candidates for the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission. We were ready both at the end of the previous political season and today to compromise within the framework of legislation and what we are now ready to support. So let's organize and unlock this process that was initiated by the Peter Dusty Block faction at the end of the previous political season. I would like to remind you once again: President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, has repeatedly called on Parliament to unlock this process, to appoint and conduct a full procedure for updating the Central Electoral Commission within the already Ukrainian Parliament. That's why the Peter Dust Block has consistently supported and voted in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. Oh, okay, okay. Colleagues, perhaps at least a minute? Okay, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Then Pisarenko, then Shurma. All right, everybody's coming. My colleagues, but I'm asking everyone to stay in their jobs. I remind you that I continued the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u177	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The president of Ukraine, Peter Alexeiovich Prashenko, is pathologically thirsty. And that's why, using constitutional powers as the sole subject of the appointment of the new members of the CEC, he introduced a list of 13 candidates, eight of whom would be members of the Central Electoral Commission! That's the truth about President Dusty. And so don't tell me that the President is implementing the Constitution. We were forced to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court in 2015 to force President Prashenko's illegal inaction in part of the non-introduction of members of the CTC. And for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court found that the President's inaction was illegal. What did the president do after that? He made the head of the court -- he wrote an application for release. Then, the president introduced a composition of the CBC, where he would have a monopoly. And today, the President and his representatives say, "The Supreme Council is so-so, it doesn't want to change the Central Election Commission." And we're facing a dilemma: either vote on the list that Pdustenko gave, and he'll have most of it in CBC, or get out of this trap that he's trying to get every Ukrainian into. Because leaving the morally and legally illegal composition of today's CBC at the helm of the Hellenic Church is a question to question the outcome of the next election. Anyone will accuse them and have a moral right to do so. The way out of this situation is to adopt this law, to defeat President Prashenko and his greed, and to make sure that all the factions of Parliament are represented in the CBC. And so that President Poroshenko doesn't have a majority in the new warehouse of the CTC. So that the right of people to choose the power that the Lord God gives can't usurp either Dusty or anyone else. I take this opportunity to ask President Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u178	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u179	to submit as he promised before the elections, the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and on the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine. If Dusty doesn't do it, I'll do it when the Ukrainians elect me president.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u180	From the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u181	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm not going to the presidents, so I can't promise you much. But I urge you all, and especially those who represent power today, to follow the Constitution. Tell me, please, that there's a C.V.C.P.S.S. student today, who's to blame? Why did you for 3 years, knowing that all the deadlines had passed at the beginning of 300 votes (4 years) did you not manage to change? And now you smell like an election, and now you want to do your influence there. Look, we've all just been looking, 321 votes, we're fighting the raid. So what today, is going to be from the CLTC, increasing the number composition is your political raiding, it's an aspiration of influence over the Central Election Commission. And power and nothing to learn. It does not draw conclusions from the past. It makes laws under it. I want to remind you that history is cyclical, and sooner or later you will be in opposition. And what are you going to say here, in the hall, with what posters? Are you going to appeal to some kind of justice? And what is justice? The PARE Assembly is a quota principle, yes, and all factions must be represented. 2 votes out of the opposition block is 13 percent. Increase to 17, give one vote-- that's 5. Is that justice? What's your party called? Peter Dustenka's Block is a justice party. This is the kind of justice you want to do in Ukraine! And the last. I'll tell you in advance. Maybe you're here picking up buttons. For the protocol: "The Opposition Block" has a warning. You can't vote for it in general, just in the first reading. And the last. Andrija Volodymyrovich, you urged everyone to go to work because this is a constitutional obligation. And your constitutional duty is to abide by the Ukrainian Law of the Rules. And let's not break it. We've brought it in at night. We're looking at it in the afternoon. That's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u182	From Rebirth, Pisarenko, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u183	Today, my colleagues and I had a discussion about the difference between compromise and consensus. And this bill might compromise here. But I think that the whole society is waiting for more consensus so that we can go a legitimate way. If you and I are going to find a quick solution today, of course it may be. But let's look a little bit further. We have two electoral campaigns and we have the possibility of having those MPs and factions who don't now vote to go to the Constitutional Court and because of the violation of the procedure, put a bomb on all the electoral processes, including the President's election, and the parliamentary elections. And after that, those members of the Central Electoral Commission, who are now in office under the Constitution, will go to trial for their illegal release. And we're going to get with you not 17 members of the next CBC, but 30 members of the next CBC who will exercise their powers. So I'd like to go to my colleagues and look at the next election, because we have two dozen presidential candidates here in the session room who need to think about how they're going to run these elections if the Central Election Commission is paralyzed. So if we're looking for this consensus, it would take time for consensus to follow the advice of experts to answer how to do it legally literately. And if you then want the question of who the President is to decide in the courts, that's the right way now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u184	Thank you. From. Now one minute is Novak. She was enrolled in the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u185	No, one minute. The replica. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u186	I mean, look, ladies and gentlemen, we have major MPs, second class deputies. In order to appear on the rostrum, we need to ask members of the coalition, someone else, to get the faction members to come out here and come out. It's an absolutely unfair situation, Andry Volodymyrovich. But I want to say essentially. You and I look like idiots. Idiots made us the president's position, unfortunately, of the Ukraine of Peter Prashenko. Because this bill of the Law. Well, we can't go to the election with the old election committee right now. But it's also impossible for me to choose a new election commission in this way. Understand, we are constantly on the path that political relevance predominates the rule of law. We're constantly breaking the law, we're constantly violating the procedure for enacting the law in order to resolve some of Mr. Dustenk's political issues. You'll recall what we have as the Attorney General's appointment. In one day. The appointment of the Attorney General at the Constitutional Court depended. Because the judges don't know what to say. How can one day resolve the issue of the Rules and say that this is in accordance with the Constitution and the laws? The same situation awaits us now. If you vote now, I understand that everyone has the right to pass this law, I understand that you can talk about it, but if you now vote it in two readings, you're going to put the whole society back together. Because the law will not be adopted in a legitimate way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u187	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u188	The law will always be brought before the Constitutional Court. Once again, the composition of the commission will not be legitimate. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I want to say, as a national deputy, like everyone else, I have the right to pass an alternative law, which has been violated by you. One. I have, like all the national MPs, the right to make amendments to this law. Two. And that's why I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u189	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. From the Czernenko Committee, one minute. Please. And let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, here is really a discussion with a reference to the Scientific and Expert Administration, but then it's proposed to make further amendments to part two of article nine, part four of article 11, where it's clear that two thirds of the composition of the commission are 11 members. So there's no question of these fractional leftovers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Colleagues! Colleagues, I ask you to move on to making a decision. And, colleagues, pay attention! We have a very simple thing: either tomorrow, Thursday night, Ukraine will be with the new Central Election Commission, or we have a risk of going to the election with the old Election Commission. This is the choice for all Ukraine, for every national MP. Whoever is in favour of updating the CLTC will vote in favour of unlocking it. And I urge everyone to support and vote on this law. And I'm voting on a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission (No. 9090) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're updating the Central Election Commission. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:10:41]] For 236 Decision taken. The law has been passed, and this allows us to choose on Thursday the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, the new CEC will be. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a break. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4 p.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work.
