ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready to sign up, colleagues? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:05:26]] 345 registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Vladimir Vladimir Zubika (welcome him from his birthday) and Alexia Petrovich Musak, from the Eurooptimist Musak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do not ignite interfractional hostility in the hall. My colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has just received a bill on national security. This bill is certainly a priority. And I'm dispatching him immediately to the profile committee, and I'm giving him the assignment to review him immediately. This law is important to both security sector reform and it is important to an important step on our way to NATO. I hope that this bill, submitted by the President to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be promptly considered. I would also like to inform you today that, together with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, with the deputies, with the ministers, with the heads of the committees, we are presenting a road map of the priority bills for Ukraine's European integration. This is a list of 57 bills that have been jointly drafted by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers. The 20 bills are already ready for Parliament’s consideration and approval. 57 bills are not just a technical plan, it's a major strategic task for the Supreme Council to convene us. So I invite the committee heads at 2 p.m. to join the presentation of our joint Parliament and government, the plan of action in the conference room of Parliament. This is our joint work and our shared responsibility. Success in Unity! And now, colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda. And I want to remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes of performances by national deputies: not factions, but national MPs. And I ask all those who intend to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in the recording and to sign up for the performance. Please. Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u2	I give the word to Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u3	Spark, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u4	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Block." Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, a venerable presidency, for any normal European country, the main value is human life and health, and Ukraine is the largest in the territory of a strong, powerful European state. Yesterday there was another terrible event under the Supreme Council when two colleagues of internal affairs, a national guard, suffered as a result of the clashes. Unacceptable event. And in this context, I would like to turn to the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, to the leadership of the state, and to remind those people who killed the Nazis in the 15th year and who are dedicated to the memory board of the Supreme Council, are still unpunished. How unpunished are all those people who are responsible for the events of the 14th year in Maidan, the events of May 2nd in Odessa and many others. If we don't mention that before the law all equal, if we don't realize that the law must be enforced by everyone, regardless of what you're called an activist or a common citizen, we'll never have a system of things in the state. If we don't realize that we are all Ukrainian citizens, that there are no enemies or friends among us, if we speak from the point of view of law enforcement and the Constitution, there will never be a system of things in Ukraine. I'd like to address you, Your Honor, once again before the leadership of the law enforcement agencies. We must do our utmost to punish those responsible for all the resonating events of the last four years. In order to really rule the law and constitutional order again in Ukraine. I hope so, and I urge that this Supreme Council Hall be united around these values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u5	Thank you. Vadatursky gives the floor to Sergio Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, Parliament, in my opinion, made the right decision without allowing the river sector to collapse, as it did with the seaports. What we've decided to do is to send both bills to the profile committee and to introduce a single bill that won't allow us to do what we did to the seaports in the last year after the experiment with so-called seaport administrations. I want to illustrate the Berdian seaport. In just one year, the trans-shipment dropped twice, income two and a half times, net profit twice, taxes paid to the budgets of all levels more than two and a half times. I'll get the numbers. When almost 400 million dollars were paid to the budgets of the past year, they barely reached 149 last year. This is the result of the management of the so - called administrations of the seaports, which, for the apprehension of Minister Omelán and the profile of the first deputy of Lavrinchuk, led the sector to virtually break down. See what happened to the Mikolai seaport. A powerful farm that has hundreds of workers working today is in fact an overriding base that rents port agriculture. The Herson port, other ports that have actually lost the volume of transshipments that they have increased since the fighting and direct aggression of the Russian Federation, which is unprecedented. I think we need to think about this situation, and where did the authors of the river reform draw us? Or on the same path, a similar management of the river economy was created in order to zero all of the powers that have been made in the last three years since the conversion of the rivers of Ukraine into powerful river routes. And a second subject I'd like to raise. From this rostrum three weeks ago, I made a statement to the S.B.I., the N.A.U. and the prosecutor's office regarding the destruction of 20 war tanks because of the innocuous inks of the company Agrinol. In three weeks, no information was received. If the public authorities aren't interested in what's going on and how the army actually manages the money they collect at the expense of each of us, I'm not going to stop at it. Until the actual destruction of combat equipment is established.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u8	The destruction of the largest warehouse near the city of Slavyansk, where all of the fuel-oil materials were suddenly on fire, where, including the fuel-oil materials of the company Agrinol, I'm sure we'll never understand why the billions that go to the front and into the army, then turn out to be millions that we can't find anywhere. I demand an answer from the SBU and the NABU, a request that was read by the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u9	Thank you. From the People's Front, Brichenko passes the word to Oleg Medunice. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u10	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the very critical problem that has now arisen in the area of housing and utilities, this problem is called debt on subsidies to enterprises that provide residential services. Last year, when the government budget was adjusted, we allocated almost 20 billion dollars to remove the problem. Unfortunately, in the new year 2018, we left with a lot of debt, and this debt remains, it's still on. During the last few days of the government, we have drawn the attention of the Prime Minister in the area of non-regulation of housing and utility subsidies granted to OSBB, and we have now promised that this problem will be rectified. But we must insist that the debt owed to residential enterprises be eliminated. Because it's the wages of people who are small, who work in this field. These are, after all, fines and pennies, which are now being imposed by energy-efficient organizations, especially for utilities in front of residential-communal enterprises, which they in turn translate into populations and consumers. So this problem must be eliminated soon. I urge you to storm the government so that we can find additional reserves, maybe we've cut off the state budget that we've allocated, which is now distributed throughout the year, on the third quarter of this year, so that we can remove this problem and get out of the winter heating period peacefully. The second problem I'd like to raise is roads. You and I have created the Road Fund Act, which is quite progressive, which forms a formula for the distribution of funds between regions. Last year we expanded the operation of a customs experiment that cost local budgets to build roads. And all of Ukraine's territories have received money from overturning the revenue of regional customs. But this situation is not settled on the occasion that these costs go solely on the roads of national importance. Large cities, public roads have been cut off from the cost of the customs experiment. In Parliament there is Law 6308, the author of which is the representatives of all the entire factions of the Supreme Council, which allows for the use of customs, including on utility roads. I call upon the heads of factions, Parliament's leadership, so that this law will be brought to the Supreme Council as soon as possible, positively voted, and our cities will be able to get funding to build roads from the Road Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, give me your word. Please, Maxim Burbak, pass the word. We invite you, colleague, to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u12	Congratulations, fellows of honor! The People's Front calls for tomorrow to start the day after the decision to refer to the international community for not allowing and condemning the election of the Russian President in the Ukrainian Crimea. These elections are illegal and the result will be the same — illegal. Their preparations are now accompanied by systematic and widespread human rights violations, repressions against the local civilian population, killings, tortures, deportations to the territory of the Russian Federation. These crimes of the Kremlin must be stopped. The Kremlin plans to organise illegal voting in the occupied Crimea, as was the case in 2016 during the so - called elections in the State. Then Arsenius Yatsenyuk, the Supreme Council, decided not to accept elections to the State in general, with appropriate legal consequences. Parliament must now similarly address the world as a requirement to prevent the so-called election of the President of the Russian Federation in the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. Donbas and Crimea are officially recognized as occupied territories. We urge Parliament to vote in favour of this decree as soon as possible tomorrow at the beginning of the day. Next. Yesterday, the Supreme Council took a significant step: we finally began to consider legislation on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. Let's not go too far with his acceptance. I stress the position of the People's Front faction that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act should take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission, namely to include representatives of international partners in the selection of judges. The higher-qualified commission of judges of Ukraine will have the authority to finally approve candidates in a judge, but it will not be able to ignore the mistrust put forward by the Civil Council. The jurisdiction of the Anti-Corruption Court must be in line with the jurisdiction of the NABU and the SAP. Overqualified requirements for candidates in anti-corruption judges should be rejected, and 5 years of judicial internships are not required in a society that is totally insecure with judges. Next. Yesterday at the People's Front faction meeting, he decided to support Jacob Smoliya's candidacy for the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We heard his program, there was a discussion, but if the question is put to the vote, we will support his candidacy. The position of the People's Front is unalterable: the head of the NBA must be a politically independent, unattached person, independent of the President, government and parliament. At the same time, the faction firmly believes that the unreleased chieftain of the NBU Gontarev must be able to report to Parliament. So I would like to invite Mrs. Gontarev to report to Parliament tomorrow. And finally, yesterday, under the walls of the Council, there was a crime: the beating of 14 policemen and the Nazis. Yeah, it's a crime. Including against the civilian population protected by Nazgwardiya and the police. So the protestors have been given the opportunity to rally under the very walls of Parliament for hours, days, months, but their organizers obviously need violence as vivid images for Russian television. The People's Front faction strongly condemns provocation and violence against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u13	30 seconds. Please, let me finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u14	We're not going to have to collide protestors with law enforcement, blow up internal conflicts during Russia's armed aggression. We expect from the National Police, the National Guard, as well as the U.S.S.S. and the Attorney General's Office active legal action against the provocateurs and their customers. I call on the organizers of so - called tent towns and rallies. Please choose a civilized form of defending your interests without violence, without humiliating yourself or your followers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u15	Thank you. Please welcome Mr. Kodola, as well as the deputy of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u16	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, today I would like to report on a dangerous situation that involves the reform of the post office in Ukraine and, in particular, in my hometown of Montenegro, which is projected to have a very negative impact. In recent times, I have received many appeals from local communities, from representatives of Montenegro, which I represent in Parliament, about the planned "Scarmer" experiment, with the reduction of post offices in rural settlements. According to available information by the end of 2018, it is planned to reduce the post office in the population of less than 2,000 people, including the introduction of a new format for the organisation of post offices, these are moving offices. The Chernobyl area was selected as the first to implement a pilot project to introduce a new format of post offices. I would like to remind you that the territory of Chernigiv County is one of the largest areas in Ukraine, especially the second after Odessa Region, and at the same time the population is one of the smallest areas, because it has the smallest density of population. Of the thousands of 490 villages in the area, 269 have fewer than two thousand inhabitants. This means that in half of the areas after the experiment has been introduced, there will in fact be no post office but the district center itself. And this list includes even border areas that now border with the aggressor country and Belarus. Of course, people are concerned about the introduction of this experiment from the replacement of stationary post offices and a mailman to mobile stations because it threatens to have a very negative social impact. This is a reduction in jobs (shortening); it is an inconvenience for residents away from the district center of the populace; it is an inconvenience to receive correspondence, the press, the necessary goods. And it's primarily communication, it's creating a real threat to information security. Because today, the mailman, we understand, is just another channel for connecting small population points with the big Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to remind you that today, in northern Montenegro, more than a hundred thousand people are still unable to watch our Ukrainian television channels. So the role of local authorities and postal workers, I think, is very important and decisive today. Today, Crucifixion is a state-owned stockholder society. And at the same time, we think the state should not forget what an enterprise is, apart from modernizing and profit-generating, should have played a social role in the first place. Otherwise, we can leave hundreds of thousands without the help and attention of the State. That's why I'm calling on the management of the Crucifixion Directorate today, the Cabinet of Ministers to look at the need to review the decision to reduce the post offices in the locations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u17	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u18	Obviously, we realize that today it is necessary to reform the mail, but without dangerous social experiments on our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Mr. Bezbach is invited to the floor. He gives the word to Mr. Golovk. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u20	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues of national MPs, journalists, television viewers, I want to tell you a topic that is very important to our security, our state is the energy security of our country. Unfortunately, we see that according to official data from international organizations, the Ukrainian economy is energy-intensive. For the production of one dollar of GDP, our state spends $1.2 -- this is an anti-record with all our neighbouring countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, which on average have a coefficient of about 20 cents. That is, we are five times more energy - efficient. In these circumstances, of course, our economy cannot develop. And what I'm saying is that this price that's on the market today is the price of our natural gas, which is overpriced. From the official data, by the way, Mr. Kistion just stated that Crushing has an absolute profit of 250 percent. This is three and a half times the official price is higher than the real price, which is today's day of Ukrainian gas, its self-sustainment. So we understand that these steps are designed specifically to curb the development of our economy, to reduce production and to deindustrialize our state. But the deindustrialization that is happening today has fatal consequences. It's shrinking. mass unemployment is rising, production is falling, the economy is falling. And today, the negative trade surplus is more than $3 billion, and each year it increases. At this rate, literally in a few years, the entire working population will be out of Ukraine, all young people and the country will be left with one pensioner who doesn't have a pension, of course. So the strategy has to be completely different. Today, of course, we have to move on to an economy that has a modernized economy. We need to cut energy costs today, which is the main one, to reduce the cost of own gas production and to sell it to the population. This is a disaster. $310, when our neighbors today have $200-160, this is going to cause our production to fall completely. That's why today we have to release such woe leaders as Kobolev, such as the leaders of the NCRECR, which is a completely illegal structure, such as Mr. Wolf, who are planning only to increase once again for the population of gas services, for electricity from April 1st almost 60 percent. This is unacceptable! So, of course, the government has to take that into account. If they're not able to do that, of course they have to be released. Because it is impossible to raise the price of gas and electricity for the population, and it needs to be reduced. This is a strategic task. Of course, under such conditions, we will be able to compete, go to international markets, because today Russian goods are growing in Ukrainian markets. And this is a threat to the national economy and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Please make the next statement from. Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! There is no doubt at this time that the national idea for Ukraine and the Ukrainians is a strong, rich, prosperous Ukrainian nation, where rich Ukrainians will live. And what does it take? One thing is to stand up for national interests and defend them from the village to Brussels, Washington, Moscow, and other foreign centers. Unfortunately, we have everything going on the contrary: in the case of Eurorocrats, the situation is about to enter into force, although his government has already put an end to the milk that is being collected from private rural farms. I get a call from my native Poltavščina, from Ternopolščina, from Frankish and ask: What should we do, cut the last cow in the village? And on what account will a peasant live if there are no cows in the village? The answer is very simple: The Ukrainian government must be clear about national interests. And national interest is a rich Ukrainian, first of all, a rich Ukrainian peasant. So there should be loans to create cooperatives so that farmers from private farms can offer quality milk. Next. What's going on? I was personally impressed by the statement made by the Ambassador of the European Union, who said in one week that reforms in Ukraine were not only seen by fools and idiots. Perhaps 80 or 90 percent of Ukrainians think of them as idiots because no one sees them as effective. They see the closing of the FAPs, the closing of schools, the closing of the PTSD, but no one sees the reforms. And the second statement is that the "Buy Ukrainian" Act, initiated by our faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, will harm Ukraine and the Ukrainians. It's actually the protection of a Polish trolleybus, the protection of a Hungarian furniture manufacturer, the protection of a German manufacturer, anyone other than a Ukrainian. We Ukrainians have to protect our own manufacturer, our own entrepreneur, our own peasant. The main goal of Ukraine and Ukraine’s people should be a powerful, powerful Ukrainian labour force, where every Ukrainian would feel rich. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u23	Please, National Deputy Gus is now invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u24	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, mining district. Dear friends, I've been wanting to mention in the next four years from this rostrum that, unfortunately, we have a carbon genocide on the Wall. I'm tired of talking about it, but I'm forced to, because no one hears any miners or local self-government or me as a representative of my electoral district number 19 on Volina. What is happening today? The only mine in Ukraine that's being built is Checket No. 10, and this year it's got 10 million bracelets, actually set to close. It's a mine that's been invested in about 2 billion dollars over the last 20 years. Is this the position of the government? I have a question mark. Next. Two other active mines: Bug 9 -- they're actually closing down today. Two months ago, the Bujanka miners didn't come out of the mine, actually, from mining, protesting that they didn't pay their wages for five months. A few days ago, miners from Mine 9 took the director's throat and threw him out because he represents the viewers. And in fact, today the government is covering these things up. Next. I asked Vladimir Groysman at the end of December to assist Minister Nasalik in two years (in two years he would be in office) to come to Volin, come to us, just come. This man is afraid of miners. This man is afraid of discussion, and this man has not come to Volin in two years’ time. They threw away the entire industry, actually, and that's a few thousand miners, that's a few thousand, actually maybe 10-15, their families. No one wants to deal with these problems, to get into them. In fact, it's about shutting down all the mines, instead of buying coal from the invader. We see that Volin from Belarus takes tens of thousands of tons of coal actually instead of our Ukrainian. It's a collapse. That's bullshit. Sorry about that. I think because they can't hear me, the government's spitting at the miners' interests. And there will be trouble. Sailors are ready to go to Kiev. If that's what the government wants, you'll get it tomorrow. Thank you. That's the last warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u25	Please, now, the national deputy of Shurma, to whom his colleague Sažko gives the word. He's handing over Sažko, we know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u26	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, I would like to remind you that the British Institute of Analysis has compiled a country's prosperity rating. On a health level, Ukraine was only 135 from 148. At the same time, in early December, the head of the Health Committee of the Supreme Council said that Ukrainians were at risk of being killed because the Ministry of Health did not publish the medical research for which they received a financial reward. Then I address the Head of the Supreme Council. The faction of the Opposition Block requires a bill of 4071, which allows for the publication of doclonal studies and clinical trials, overcomes corruption, corruption, and corruption in which the Ministry of Health has embarked. One example was yesterday when a conflict with the National Medical University was considered. The Ministry is now covering the illegal activities of the Testing Center. And so far, the big money that's listed for them is from the oral calls to the rectors of medical universities to support the centre, which there's no legal basis. But that's not the point. I would like to say that, in fact, the absence of a health minister -- I would advise you all to listen now -- will lead to the collapse of Parliament. And I'll tell you why. Absence. Under the Ukrainian Act, "The Cabinet of Ministers" is defined as a rule when the Prime Minister submits the full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 2 of part two of the second 90 articles, if a full government is not formed, the President has the right to stop the work of Parliament. And what you, the coalition, don't give the Prime Minister a candidate for the post of Minister of Health, is you're leading this Parliament to have a full "suprun" very quickly. Because what is happening today in health care is not at all logical. We're demanding today a decree on a report of a temporary duty minister who's not a citizen of Ukraine because she doesn't have an order to give her citizenship because she doesn't have a degree in higher education, she presents a diploma after completing Michigan University College, bring a report here, and then you'll give an assessment. Today, what happens to health care is not called health care, it is called the burial of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u27	Thank you. And Kuprienko's closing statement. Passes the word to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you the story of a woman I met at Mariupol Hospital No. 1, when, along with the mayor of Vadim Boychenk, we opened new urological and trauma wards. When we walked down the hall, there were women sitting on the bench, one of them greeted me, and I stopped and we talked to her. Marina Mikhailovna, who is 44 years old, came to the hospital because her legs were sore. And she told me that over 44 years of her career, she had about a thousand and a half, and there was Lydia Vasilovna sitting next to Marina Mikhailna, who said that she was 39 years old, and she had a thousand and 450 dollars of pension. And these women who came in, someone had pain in their legs, someone had pain, maybe hands, anything else, but each one of them had an indescribable pain in their eyes for injustice. Both such women and men in Ukraine, millions who have worked hard all their lives, but who have received cash wages, are now receiving cash pensions. The same sadness and pain in the eyes of our shopkeepers, who have worked very hard all their lives, are now very difficult to live. But because when they were young, they were given the workdays, they were given a twig, they were paid, instead of their wages, with a bag of tar or a sack of salt, and today they have a penny pension. And that pension reform that took place last year did not solve the problems of Marina Mikhailovna of Mariupul, neither did Mrs. Lydia, nor millions of Ukrainian men and women, pensioners. We demand that the government make immediate changes to pension legislation and solve problems for people who have received low wages but have a huge workforce, first of all, of colporteurs, first of all, of low-income workers. And this is a question of economic security in the country, because I'm reading the National Bank's information yesterday, they're predicting in the near future two or three times the increase in migration to Poland, for one reason. Because in Ukraine the minimum wage is 120 euros, and in Poland 500 million Ukrainians have broken down in Poland at pay. And the only way to stop migration, to stop the demographic crisis is to raise wages, raise Ukrainian income, create jobs. For both Marina Mikhailovna and millions of others to receive a decent retirement from their old age.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! The time for the presentation is over. I now ask all the factions to invite deputies into the hall, we move on to ratification issues. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Now the speaker is Head of the Supreme Council, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius. Your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Today, during the performances, many of the speakers discussed yesterday’s incident. And I'd like to say a few words about that. I often talk about the words of responsibility when I speak from the rostrum. And these are not empty words -- words that, to my conviction, should be of great value to everyone, because they are behind them, the actions of each of us, the lives and fate of the people. On the air yesterday, some of the national deputies reported that they had approached the Supreme Council head to meet the protesters, and he had not come out and that was why the conflict had taken place. I have a question: where are the limits of the meanness and nothingness of those people? No man has approached me, although I would like to stress that the approach to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open to every deputy. May one national deputy raise your hand, who is struggling to communicate with the Chief of the Supreme Council. In my first decision, I opened the door so that every national MP, when necessary, would come to the head of the Supreme Council and give him information. Anyone can come at any time. If anyone can't, raise your hand in the hall. These mean people who have provoked conflict, tricked people on the street, including, they don't realize one important thing, behind this meanness and misery are crippled boys, it's not just our soldiers, it's not just the soldiers -- it's someone's children, or someone's men, it's somebody's parents. And, colleagues, we need to get back not just the political views and the desire to shine, but the ordinary human qualities: the qualities of dignity, the quality of responsibility. [[Applause]] That way you won't come to power. In this way you can only destroy the state. We're going to let this happen, we're not going to let the provokers destroy the Ukrainian state. And, colleagues, once again, I turn to everyone: think about your words, your actions, because our words and actions are followed by the fate of the people, including the defenders of the Ukrainian state, who are standing, including the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I urge everyone, speaking, to speak, including from this rostrum, not just the truth, but the responsibility. And I'm confident that society will evaluate those actions and those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u32	Colleagues, we have a day-to-day ratification. And the first. Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention and Elimination. And, colleagues, I want to remind you one last Wednesday when we failed one of the important ratifications. And I would like to stress now once again that there will be maximum mobilization in the hall when making those decisions. And I, with your permission, before the ratifications, will be conducting a rating vote to support us so that we can feel and see if the question has sufficient support in the room. I ask you, colleagues, all to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm betting on a rating vote. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please take part in the rating vote and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:47:57]] For-153 Now I'm putting to the vote a rating block on youth policy and sports, which is next so that we can see the willingness to look at the youth and sports cluster. So I put to the vote the first draft of the Youth Policy Act: amending some Ukrainian legislation on how to get a child out of Ukraine Please vote and please support. The ratings of the block are youth and sport. Please be supportive. It's a rating vote. [[10:48:50]] For 186 Colleagues, I have an offer to start not with the ratification block, but with the youth policy and sports bloc. No objections? None. So I'm looking at the first question of the youth and sports bloc. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of departure of a child outside Ukraine (6647). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:49:36]] For 155 Decision taken. Colleagues, before I invite a leader, I forcely address the factions' heads to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. During the discussion, please invite the national deputies to the Hall. And to the report, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Sporis Ivan Dmitrovic. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u33	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national deputies, of course, wanted us both to ratify, and also the youth policy, the sport, to vote and adopt, to give tribute to the laws, because they are very necessary today in our country. First of all, the bill is designed to simplify the process of moving children outside our Ukraine. Today, neither courts nor parents are able to grant permission for several visits to a child outside Ukraine. Hence, parents are forced to grant a notary permit or to obtain a separate court decision for each child’s departure. What is more, children who are outside Ukraine are constantly residing in temporarily occupied territories or refusing to agree to a child’s departure, making bills with the mother of the child. Thus, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, our committee set up a working group with the participation of representatives of public authorities, judges, lawyers who drafted a bill aimed at simplifying the procedure. First of all, it is suggested that parents be given permission to leave Ukraine for a period of up to three years, which includes consent to one or more trips from a child outside Ukraine, both without restrictions and with the definition of a country to which entry is permitted or prohibited. Secondly, it is proposed to allow the courts, for the absence of the consent of one parent, to grant one or more visits to a child outside Ukraine, both without restrictions and with the definition of countries to which entry is authorised or prohibited. That's why I wanted us to vote for this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u34	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u35	Our committee has also been supplemented by the fact that by permission of the body of care and care on the basis of documents issued by the state authorities that confirm the circumstances noted, one of the parents’ decisions could also be sent. But in view of the fact that there were some warnings from public organizations and other, the bill in question, the authors agree with the decision to cancel it. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u36	Thank you. In my report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sport, Milo Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u37	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered Bill 6647 and, as in 2017, there was a meeting yesterday. And we agreed to that proposal, and we suggest that the hall accept it as a basis. However, given that there have been some warnings about certain standards, such as the permission of care and care authorities that may grant temporary leave for a child abroad, the committee suggests that this rule be removed when it comes to the second reading, as it raises concerns. And it is suggested that the issues governing the child’s going abroad be fully addressed by other legislative acts. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 6647 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u38	Thank you very much. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. And once again, I urge the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. From the People's Front. From the People's Front, who will be speaking? It's from the factions now, boys. Come on. Igor. Guys, come on, this is a faction show. Okay. Igor Mosiyczuk, please. Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian Parliament, Ukrainian people! It's actually an important bill for parents to legally take their children abroad. But there are two important things in this matter. The first thing is that we've brought the country to this state, I mean Ukrainian power, is that when I go to the village in Ternopilsland, for example, I find out that there were 30 children born in a year, in a large village, and 60 children were born from fellow citizens abroad. So basically, there's total migration and exit from the country of the Ukrainians. And that's what the government's policy is doing in terms of the Ukrainians, leading them to the poverty line. The second, in addition to that, is the substance of the bill. Regrettably, we have many examples, including in our colleague Sergey Fishery’s hall, when a child is taken out on a forged assignment abroad. Sergey’s daughter was taken abroad on a false assignment. And this fact is established by the court, and only law enforcement authorities cannot bring this case to a logical conclusion. So in general supporting this bill, we want the authors, the committee for second reading, to work on it in such a way as to make it impossible for parents to do so and to protect the right of parents to have a child solely with the permission of both parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u40	It's a self-help novel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually primarily designed to protect the legitimate interests of the child. I understand the concern of some national deputies that, in the form of recovery or recreation, one parent may take the child abroad and not return with the child. But in fact, every year thousands of children suffer from the fact that one parent, a divorced couple, blackmails the other parent by not signing this notary. Notarial paper to bring a child abroad to health, to rest, to treatment, to training congregations. So let's not actually manipulate the interests of the child, but let's do everything we can to simplify this process of moving the child abroad for a short period of time. And what I'm saying is that this bill doesn't discredit a father or a mother. The wording of this bill applies to one of the parents. This does not mean that men will be deprived of their rights, kidnapped, or abducted by women or mothers. The wording of the law, I repeat, says that one parent, without specifying the mother or the father, can follow a simplified procedure without looking for another parent, who is very often missing somewhere, cannot be found in the world, can bring his child to health. Now we say very often that our children, they don't have the financial capacity to recover. But in some cases, even when parents can heal, one parent, a child, they cannot do so through bureaucratic procedures. Such bills, such simplified procedures, are common in all European countries. And only Ukraine still lives by some bureaucratic principle. Believe me, if someone wants to take a child out, fake a permit and go to the crime scene, he'll do it anyway. It's already a matter of law enforcement, if anyone, something.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u42	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u43	A request for support. I understand that there are few votes in the room, but this bill is a bill to protect the rights and interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u44	From the opposition block of Dudenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u45	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. I don't understand why there aren't any voices in the room, honestly. Of course, the budget issue, of course, is more important than protecting children’s interests and rights. I don't understand why there aren't any deputies today. This bill is usually very important because it regulates the possibility of a child going out with one of the parents with whom he or she lives in the absence of a parent’s consent. We all realize that going abroad requires the permission of one of the parents in case the parents are divorced. Sadly, though, statistics are disheartening, so many divorced families. But there are cases where one parent simply, for personal reasons or for some other reason, does not grant the specified permission. And so it takes away the child and the mother -- it's in the vast majority of cases -- to go on vacation, especially abroad. This bill solves the problem. There will now be a court decision, which is once for the repeated departure of a child with a father (temporary departure) outside Ukraine. This is a normal situation. I don’t understand why a small number of deputies can’t pay attention to the problems of family and children. And as for the previous speakers on big migration and why big migration in this country, I'll tell you. Large migration is not just for the authority, but large migration because of intolerance in this room, because of the call for intolerance, the lack of tolerance of the representatives of those who speak another language, which belongs to another nationality, if he or she simply does not speak Ukrainian in this room. From which intolerance, lack of tolerance, which is already instability, people want stability, and they want to live in stable conditions, economically.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues! Now we're going to make a final statement, and then we're going to make a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking you to maximize the mobilization of Ukrainian national deputies. To the word "block of Peter Prashenko," Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich is passing on to Sporis. Please. All right, then, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u47	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Thank you, Palamarchuk, for taking the floor. And it's really nice to have the whole room backing up the bill. And it's very nice that all the factions have just come forward and everyone supports the bill because we see the problems of going abroad. We see the problem is that children can't take part, either in the international Olympics or in international children's competitions, various sporting events and more for treatment. And we understand very well because Anna Romanov was also speaking, and she was right to say that in order to give consent to one of the parents, one of the parents doesn't want this and all, and the child has no right to take this part. Because this is a very important question, and so I would very much like all of us to support the hall, all of the deputies voted unanimously, because we are solving a fairly important question today. Although it would seem that the question today might be said that there is no such thing, but it is very important, and this is what we see from the speeches of all the deputies who spoke out of this rostrum today. I would like everyone to support this bill very much, because it is important enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u48	Thank you. There hasn't been a speech from Fatherland yet. One minute, okay? Sergey Eutuszek. And I'd like everyone to take their seats. We'll vote in a minute. Turn on the microphone. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u49	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill regulates relations and interests of rights and freedoms of the child. But it doesn't really regulate actual legislation, our legal and regulatory framework that regulates a child's going abroad. And here I'd like to turn to the vice president of the committee who said that by the second reading he would correct this rule. Thus, article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prohibits any change in articles that have not been voted on in the first reading. I don't understand how this is going to be done. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to make further changes to the law on the order of departure from Ukraine and Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens, only then will this law become fully meaningful and our children will be given the opportunity to go abroad, to return abroad, to treatment or to any other process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u50	Colleagues, return to the hall, return the national deputies to the hall, please. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're going to vote, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm going to run the rating vote first. Please, everyone. So, colleagues, this is a very important bill, and I'm asking everyone once again to take up jobs. First of all, I ask you to participate in the rating vote, and I hold a rating vote in support of this law, and I ask you to participate. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote everyone. [[11:06:42]] For 210 You should. Colleagues, please invite everyone. Please show the factions on the board. And please now, colleagues, look around who's not here and invite you to the hall. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform all deputies to come into the hall. So I'm asking everyone to mobilize, I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies to the hall, the heads of the factions. Come in, come in, fellows. So can we move on to making a decision? Let's do the ratings again, shall we? Is everyone in place? Come in, please, and take your jobs. Let's get our colleagues back on track and move on to decision-making, please all take your seats and take part in the vote. So I'm re-voting the draft law on how to get a child out of Ukraine (6647). Please vote and please support. Vote. Please support, carefully, every voice. [[11:08:24]] For 231 We can move on to making a decision. And I'm putting a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on how to get a child out of Ukraine (6647) on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully and in harmony. We vote on the basis of the committee's proposals. Vote. [[11:09:00]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 88, National Front – 59, Opposition Block – 21, Self-help – 12, Radical Party Lachka – 13, Fatherland – 6, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 9. The unification of the Hall and the unity of Parliament is the guarantee of our victory. Before we go to the next question, and the next question in the youth and sports bloc is the bill of Law 6648, I'm asking you to prepare the reporter authors. But now I have to read a statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. They're willing to replace it with a performance, not a break. So I'm asking everyone to stay put. Now we're going to move on to the next question: youth and sport. And I give the floor to the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lachka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, as you know, in Ukraine, talks about early parliamentary elections have been intensified with the initiative of the President of Ukraine. According to my information, the President of Ukraine, every morning to the evening instead of taking care of Ukraine's national interests, improving the well-being of Ukrainians, working for Ukrainians, the President of Ukraine is holding meetings in different configurations, where there is one single question: how to keep Petra Prashenko in the President's chair and how to preserve power. One option, which is very serious today, was that, literally yesterday and yesterday, the President's Administration had a secret meeting that resulted in a decision to hold parliamentary elections for the term. President Poroshenko believes that in the early parliamentary elections, due to the law in force, when half the deputies are elected as seniors, they will be able to write a chess game, there is an apherist named Kowalczuk in the President's Office, who appoints candidates to major districts. They have already announced that 100 members of the Majority Chamber will receive, as a minimum, 50 in the party election and then 150 in the new parliament. And Porcelain believes that if he loses the presidential election, 150 deputies are his opportunity and tramplelin to embrace the prime minister's office. The calculations are, in principle, correct: when there is a faction of 100-150 deputies, one can claim to be Prime Minister. But I have a key question: where are the interests of the Ukrainians? When President Prašenko takes care of his office, we see his interest: he will remain in power and continue to engage in corruption. The dissolution of Parliament in an active electoral system will not solve the problem of fighting corruption or all other pressing problems in the country. What does the Radical Party team suggest? We're ready to go to the early elections in terms of change in electoral legislation, adoption of the Act on Open Party Lists, cancellation of the corruption majority, and then please go to the polls. In addition, the survey shows that the level of confidence in the President-in-Office is 7-9 percent. So the parliamentary elections for the term should be held together with the presidential elections for the term, and let the people decide the fate of both the President and the Parliament. Next. We insist that Parliament, in addition to changing the electoral system, adopt a law on the procedure for impeachment of the President of Ukraine and on the temporary investigators of the Supreme Council. Both draft laws since 2015 have been registered with the Supreme Council and are awaiting their consideration. Let's go to the polls, dear Peter Alexiyovich, and see you fly like a fan over Sofia. We're ready for the election, but we won't let you fool the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u52	Colleagues, I propose to return to the constructive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm now announcing the passage to the draft Act on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine on Support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports in Ukraine (6648). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[11:13:44]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Gozula Igor Evgeniovich. Minister, I'm sorry, the minister is present, Igora Zhdanova for the report. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u53	Honourable National Deputies, Honorary Fellows, a project developed in accordance with the plan for the preparation of draft acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Act of 7 September 2016 "To amend the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto". The draft Act is intended to amend the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport and the Ukrainian Act on Support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports in Ukraine. In particular, the word "disability" is suggested in every correction to replace the words "person with disability" with the corresponding differences, as well as other structures. Objective: The purpose of the draft act is to remove the discriminatory component of the concept and to bring effective legislation in the field of physical culture and sport into line with the Act on Amendments to the Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. As you can see, colleagues, the bill is purely technical, but this is the fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations. That's why I'm asking you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And, please, the coreporter is invited to represent the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Dennis Silantiev. Please, Mr. Dennis, I look at you in a different row.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u55	The Honourable Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee at its meeting on September 5, 2017, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine on Support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports in Ukraine and on Physical Culture and Sport, registration number 6648, and reports on the following. The members of the committee supported such a legislative initiative of the government because the implementation of the bill would allow for the introduction of valid legislation in the field of physical culture and sports of persons with disabilities in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. At the same time, in support of the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the committee disagrees with the proposed procedure for entering into force of the draft law. It says "from the day of his publication." Since implementation of the project requires a comprehensive update of the legal and regulatory framework on which the Cabinet of Ministers is given 3 months and a series of practical measures, the Committee believes that the law should be put into effect at least three months after its publication. The committee therefore proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports in Ukraine and on Physical Culture and Sport (No. 6648), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. In particular, paragraph 1 of section 2 of the draft law "Final Positions" reads as follows: "This law takes effect three months after its publication." This law, colleagues, is purely technical. It changes one term to "disability" to another term "person with disabilities." That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u56	Thank you for your clarification. And, Your Honor, please sign up for this bill. Please. Please, People's Deputy Toothache.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u57	Anna Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u58	I'm sorry, Mrs. Romanovy's taking the floor. Please, Mrs. Romanova is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u59	Of course, the Self-Help Union will support this bill. And I urge the entire room to vote in favour. Indeed, the bill is merely a formality. But his name sounds like the support of the Paralympic movement. You see, support for people with disabilities, it's not just that we change the word "disability" to the word "persons with disabilities." Real support from the State will be provided only when the State is financially, financially, able to support people with disabilities, creating living conditions for people with disabilities so that they can move freely through our streets. When we get abroad, we often see many people with disabilities in the streets. And not just because there aren't many people in Ukraine, but because in Ukraine people with disabilities are basically locked up in their homes, and very often there are no living conditions for their wheelchairs, for example, to get to the elevator or to move through our streets, which are not equipped with anything, they don't have conditions for these people. So in support of this formal, I emphasize, the formal bill, "The Self-Help Union" calls on the state and the Ministry of Finance to plan the next budget, for which Self-Help never votes, to pay attention not to the lobbyist interests of large companies, but indeed to persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u60	Thank you, dear colleague. And please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u61	Dear Ukrainians, the faction of Oleg Láska's Radical Party will support this bill, as will all of the laws aimed at supporting people with special needs. And when it comes to athletes, there's nothing to talk about. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the young minister present and the sport of the reverend Igor Zhdanov to the fact that on my Fatherland, in Poltavščina, there is a huge complex in Grebinka: 7 football fields, covered tracks, swimming pools -- it was once a railway that built a huge complex. It is now maintained by the local united community. And I would ask the minister to help, and there are children from all over Ukraine coming together, and there was a question being considered to make a base for the Paralympics. I'm ready to go to Grebinka with you to see. My colleague Dennis Silantiev, who had just reported this law, was on this complex. It's a beautiful complex. Yeah, he's not in Kiev, but there's really power. Now we're with the community, and with my support, we're doing repairs, reconstructions. But he really needs the attention of the state. And I would ask you to pay attention because the entire Poltava region, Cherkaszka, Kyivska, is going there to compete. It can really be used as a base for our paralympics. Thank you. And please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u62	Thank you. And please, Mr. Pisarenko's word is now in order. He'll be out of town. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's a real shame that we're just a block of youth and sports bills today, and we'd like to pay more attention to that. But in fact, I think it's very good that parliamentarians today support those bills that are there. And I think we should do a whole day of sports and youth support. And in the background of the results that we saw during the South Korean Olympics, I think we need to think seriously about our approach to supporting sports and youth, and to organizing such support from the Ministry of Education because the results can't help but suggest that we don't have everything good in the sports house. That's why we support sports and youth, and we put more bills to the voting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. There will be a closing statement in two minutes. We'll move on to the vote. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, get ready for the vote. Now from the Opposition Block, the word is Igor Shurmi. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the issue of people with disabilities or people with special needs. And I'd like to ask you, who is shaping this order of the day? So, please tell me, are there people who refer to a category of people with disabilities who will get what exactly from the adoption of this law? We talk about our obligations to the International Convention. No questions asked. Morally psychological support for what we call people not disabled, but we call them people with disabilities or people with special needs, so we don't have to take legislative acts. Who shapes the order of the day? This is at a time when people who are displaced as a result of the war today have lost their homes, broken families, and cannot get a pension have suffered social injustice. Even the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is talking about the inadmissibility of pension payments, social benefits to people living in occupied areas. And instead of joining those problems and including a block of bills, including those proposed by the Opposition Block, we're discussing technical issues today. And please tell me, 135th place in the worst health care rating that Ukraine has in 148 countries is not a problem? Yes. Why do we not today consider the question of responsibility for our work as a temporary minister? And why aren't we discussing today the issues of, you know, the impotence of coalitions that can't run for minister? We are demanding an immediate decision on the report of the Ministry of Health, and we have been asking for it for a year. We're not getting an answer today. Today, we are being stimulated and pushed into various forms of protest. Today's vote is a form of protest before it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u66	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. I'll do the ratings first so we can see the mobilization in the hall. And once again, I urge everyone to come to the hall and take up jobs. It's about supporting the Olympic and the Paralympic movement. And I'm sure it's also a question that can unite the entire room. So I'm betting on a rating vote on Bill 6648. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to vote. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[11:27:00]] For a hundred and Please show by factions. Colleagues, please invite everyone into the hall. I'm asking the naked factions to invite all the national deputies to the hall right now. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. I'll give the minister another minute to invite the deputies into the hall and mobilize them. And I urge everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Today, the congregation of Paralympics goes to Korea, to Pyongyang. I think we'd make a very big gift to everyone, not just the Paralympics, but to all persons with disabilities, if we were today, you'd adopt and approve this law. It's very important to them, it's dependent on others, adoption, other legal instruments, it's not politicized, it's not political. I think that there is no one in the room today who does not support people with disabilities. Let's vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u68	Colleagues, I'll go to those who don't vote. Are our paralympics supposed to be hostage to the political intrigues that are in the hall? Are these the people who represent the Ukrainian state? Is it possible to act this way to the Ukrainian National Deputies? Is that right, colleagues? I'm asking you again, I'm betting on a rating vote and asking everyone to come into the hall. 6648 on support for the Olympic and Paralympic movement and sports Please take part in the rating vote and please support. Please vote, please support. For the Ukrainian paralympics, please support. [[11:28:59]] For 205 Why not? We made a mistake, yeah. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, please come into the hall and take your seats. And I would like to emphasise that this is a draft law amending the laws of Ukraine to support the Olympic, the Paralympic movement. And I'm asking you to show by factions. "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 86, "The People's Front" – 56, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 12, "The Fatherland" – 6, "The Will of the People" – 1, "The Rebirth Party – 8. I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking for your support. And I'm re-voting 6648 and I'm asking you to support everyone, please vote, vote. [[11:30:22]] For 207 What if I re-read it? What if I re-read the committee's first re-reading? One more time, so we don't lose the bill. We can't move, we're in the process. Let's do it again. Shall we vote again first? Yeah, I'll bet. Is it going to be supported again? I'll bet the offer one more time. Please spores for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u69	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you very much, but today, again, the minister just said that today we're sending our Paralympics to the Olympics, we're sending them to Korea. Let's do it tonight, by holding them tonight, we have to tell them that today we've adopted a bill that doesn't matter, but it is. This bill we have to vote on, get it right. Let's all vote together, give our paralympics the mood to get them out and show themselves up again. Once again, they took their first place and so forth as they could. I ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u70	Colleagues, I'll put, as the Rules provide, first the Committee's proposal, then the Committee's working. There are enough votes in the room to vote, and I ask you to take your seats now, and once again, please invite a colleague, please come into the hall, and I'll put in the sequence provided for in the Rules. And, colleagues, the minister noted and a representative of the committee pointed out, this is the Olympic, the Paralympic Assembly of Ukraine, which represents the whole of Ukraine, the entire state at the Olympics. More than that, it demonstrates success and shows great will to win. Can we let the Ukrainian Parliament not support our Paralympics? Can we allow that during such an important vote the MPs did not come to the hall? Can we let anyone who is in the hall not vote and support the Paralympic congregation? I'm asking my colleagues to put aside political differences, to put aside political opposition. Please, from the high court of Parliament, and I'm addressing everyone. And I'm asking you to back me up. So the first vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The first is a committee proposal, I ask everyone to vote very carefully and to support it. So the committee's first proposal. The draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports Act (No. 6648) was adopted on the basis of the Committee's proposals as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support, vote, support the Ukrainian paralympics. [[11:34:09]] For 222 Four votes missed, I see. We'll be back. Let's see the factions. We'll be back, four votes, I'm asking everyone to vote carefully and to enter the hall, colleagues. How can we leave the hall when we consider such matters? How can we treat the Ukrainian paralympics with such disrespect and contempt? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I, my colleagues, propose to return to the vote for the draft Law on Support for the Olympic and Paralympic Movement. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote for the return, please support, and let's be ashamed of those who won't support it. [[11:35:20.]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm proposing a bill amending the laws of Ukraine to support the Olympic, the Paralympic movement, and I'm proposing to the committee, on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please all take part in the vote and please support. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. We vote, every voice matters, carefully. [[11:35:53]] For 232 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 91, "National Front" – 65, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 17, Radical Party Lachka – 15, "Fathership" – 7, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party "Resurrection" – 8. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that I have received two applications. The first is from Peter Dustenk's Block and Rebirth. They're also replacing the break for three minutes. The second is from Self-Help and Fatherland. Yeah? First, I give the word to Arthur Gerasimov. Please, three minutes, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We have just heard the flaming speeches from this rostrum regarding the temporary elections. So, you know, I wanted to remind you that repeatedly, both the President of Ukraine and the faction of Peter Poshenko's Block stressed that the key to us is an effective working parliament. And I would like to remind you that it is the Peter Prashenko Block that is always giving the most votes for both the issue of defence, and for the social protection of our people, the military, and for economic development. And when the president of Ukraine was mentioned here, yes, indeed, man works until 2-3 o'clock in the morning. And let's also remember our international unity that supports us in the fight against the aggressor and the resurgence of our army and the revival of the defence industry. And I want to remind you that it was from the initiative of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine that both NABA and NAZK and SAP were created. Because there are some. A lot of people want to take it in. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm already talking about decentralization reform. And now for the temporary elections. You know, Peter Prashenko's Block is always ready for any election: temporary, term, non-structural, because the only source of power in Ukraine is the people. The one who screams most from the rostrum about what he is against may be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u72	Thank you. Next, a statement from two factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to guarantee greater sporting skills for young people. And I'm putting it on a rating vote before it's considered. Whoever supports the proposal for us to now move to the consideration of this bill, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:38:51]] For 168 Colleagues, we have the next one. Me. Let's consult now. Colleagues, we have the Ministry. And I'm going to remind you that I started with ratification. Let me put it again on the rating vote. Let's mobilize, you'll convince your colleagues to vote as much as possible. Colleagues, come into the hall, don't leave the hall when the vote's on. I'll call it who comes out of the hall. So there are ratification reports. I'm reminding you, the first question today, and I've already put it to a rating vote, is the draft of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Croatia on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention and the Elimination of Their Consequences. I ask you to vote, this is a rating vote to support this ratification. And please maximize your mobility and support as much as possible. Please vote, this is a rating vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:40:21]] For-189 Colleagues, advise me, heads of factions: can we go in, mobilize people before the end? Colleagues, I'm addressing factions' heads right now, can we come in, do you feel like you're gonna pull people up? Yes, with Croatia. Can we come in? Then, colleagues, I ask during the consideration to invite deputies, ten minutes after the discussion, we will enter into a decision. I'd like you to make the most of it. So I'm betting. We are now considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia (0173). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:41:21]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u73	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I would like to start by thanking the Nazis and the National Police for actually doing their duties yesterday. And there's been an incident that some people just don't realize that we're not going to achieve any peace or peace. And I'd like to move on to the performance. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in disaster prevention and mitigation. The project is based on the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. The agreement will be a legal basis for cooperation between the Ukrainian and Croatian governments and will allow for the rapid provision of mutual assistance. The source of funding for possible assistance to the Government of Croatia in the event of disasters may be the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine or other sources. In doing so, the corresponding expenditure will be regulated by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. People's deputies would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u74	Thank you. In my report, I invite the representative of the Committee on European Integration, Jurinec Oksana. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u75	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! At its meeting on 7 February 2018, the Committee on European Integration discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention and Elimination of Their Consequences and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which supported the ratification of the agreement. The treaty proposed for ratification was concluded in Kiev on November 21, 2016. And its ratification will allow for the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of this agreement. The agreement defines how to provide and receive assistance, how to cross the border, and the rules governing the presence of relief, import and export teams, and the transit of equipment and assistance, how to use aircraft, cost and damage, and so on. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement, it is applied in the event of disaster if the resources of the party are insufficient to prevent or eliminate disasters. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Oksana, I am very much asking you to mobilize the committee members, because once some have left the hall, call all the members of the committee to be in the vote. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman. He's taking it off. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Imprehenko Alexei Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u77	The faction of the Party of Peter Dustock will, of course, support this ratification. The document provides voluntary assistance in emergencies and disasters. It is not just about sending rescue teams and technicians to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. The agreement also provides for increased cooperation in the scientific field. It is important that cooperation involves both the experience and the practical skills of disaster management. This agreement lays down clear rules for border crossings, the use of vessels, aircraft, and the enforcement of the laws of both sides. So the faction of Peter Dustenk supports this law and calls upon the entire hall to support this ratification and ratify the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u78	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u79	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I refer to the citizens of Ukraine, as well as to those who are organizing the work of the Supreme Council for us today. We all know that Wednesday is a day of ratification, and we understand very well that the international image of Ukraine is at stake. But we are today, realizing that today we need to consider the issue -- the draft Law of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Croatia on cooperation in disaster prevention and their elimination and consequences -- we want to make our position plain, transparent and not behind our backs today. We think that today someone is deliberately setting up the Supreme Council Head and not making proposals for the day-to-day legislative initiatives and for the Opposition Block, which refers to the social guarantees of people living in the occupation zone today, as well as of all displaced persons. That's the first one. And the main thing is that the disaster we have in our health care. For a year now, we have been demanding a report from the interim minister of health. This decision lies under the dress and is not made. If you don't want to vote for Suprun, give me another candidate. Because without a minister's candidacy, we have an underprivileged government. Without a full government, you put the cards in the hands of the President of Ukraine, who under the Constitution may, within a period of 60 days, not fully composed of the Cabinet of Ministers to dissolve the Supreme Council. Therefore, we demand an immediate order to review the minister’s report. Minister of Health That's the first one. And as a form. We have a form of protest for today’s vote. "The Opposition Block," supporting essentially the bill, will not do so in its form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u80	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. I address the heads of the factions, invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. I also appeal to the committee to maximize the mobilization of members of the people. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Mr. Igor, please. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. And please enter the Chamber, prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u81	The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian People, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška will support this ratification, as well as support and support all international agreements in favour of the Ukrainian people, which are in line with the national interests of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian society to events that occurred yesterday. Yesterday, the security authorities of the Republic of Poland detained two Polish nationals who are on the ground of suspicion of setting fire to the Hungarian Cultural Society building in Uzhgorod, which was carried out and which, as we recall, had been accused of Ukrainians. Last night, this building was blown up. So there was a terrorist act essentially to accuse the Ukrainians again, to dissuade Ukrainians with Hungarians, Ukrainians with Poles. It's an absolute thing that's going on in favor of one country. It's for the aggressor country, the Russian Federation. I'm saying that today's Russian Federation is a terrorist country. A country that engages in terrorist acts all over the world. And Ukraine must be ready for the challenges that this terrorist country is throwing. Law enforcement authorities should be prepared to do so. Regrettably, the investigation of terrorist acts in Ukraine is not as coordinated and not as effective as we wanted it to be. I mean the murder of journalist Paul Sheremet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u82	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u83	Colonel Harabreyush, Colonel Shapoval, came after me and killed me, and so on and so on and so forth. Yes, there is progress. Yes, they are detained in individual cases and are suspected. But Ukraine needs a comprehensive anti-terror program. We're going to learn in the state of Israel to live under a constant terrorist threat -- it's a matter of survival of an entire Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u84	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. I ask you to invite all the deputies who are in the towers. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I'm going to run a rating vote first so we can see the level of mobilization. And then we'll move on to making a decision. Please, friends, don't leave. Andrew! Andrew! Andrew Denisenko, don't leave the hall! Andrew Denisenko! Don't leave the hall, my friends! How can you do that? But I am with great supplication, with respect to everyone. Although he would not have had the respect to talk about it, he would have had a great deal of contempt for those who are not at work at the workplace. And it is a great disdain to speak to those who despise both Ukraine and Parliament and the state with their attitude toward work. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. I am the first to put the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia (0173) on a rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[11:53:27]] For 209 Please. Come to the hall! A national MP has just left the hall. I'm asking him to return to the hall. Colleagues, please mobilize as much as possible. I mean, please show me the results. The entire hall is united around this ratification, the entire hall is united, and I want to thank everyone. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 84, "National Front" – 58, "Resistance Block" – 3, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 10, "Fatherhood" – 5, "will of the people" – 1, "Resurrection" – 7. I ask, colleagues, all to take up jobs and support ratification, invite MPs to the hall. I'm re-voting, draft Law 0173, and I'm asking you to support me, and to vote, please, all of you, please support me, colleagues. Carefully, every vote matters, this is a rating vote, please support. [[11:54:45]] For 216 Please invite the deputies and take your seats. Colleagues! Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please make the most of it and please support the ratification. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility and please support me, colleagues. So I would like everyone to come into the hall and take part in the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention and Elimination of Their Consequences (No. 0173) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, my friends, please support, vote, this decision is already made, every vote matters, we vote carefully, we support. [[11:56:11]] For 229 Ratification accepted. Congratulations on accepting the ratification, colleagues. We made three important decisions. We don't have time to go into another bill anymore. The next one on the block is the Youth and Sports Committee's decision. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And I ask that you all arrive at 12:30 to continue your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u85	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. We have the next one from the youth and sports bloc, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation. I'm asking the committee, Arthur the Chamber. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, but before I go into the agenda, I have two applications. First statement. First announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the exit of Berezkin Stanislav Semenović from the MP's "Party of Rebirth". The next statement is a statement from two factions: Self-help and Fatherland, which they're willing to take for a break from the rostrum. And that's why I'm giving you three minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] for the performance, and then we go to Project Rule 7383. Yegor Sobolev will perform. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u86	I have an offer for all national deputies. I was at the police station last night. At first, when they took the detainees after the clashes, they spoke to the head of the National Police. The main reason for all the collisions that are happening under the Council, and they're getting more and more bloody, is because we don't want to talk to people. There are many problems in the country that cannot be solved. Not just top-corruption, there's a lot of them. Yesterday, before the collision, retired soldiers marched. This is a problem that is not solved, and there are many such problems. The encounter started with nonsense: people really wanted to meet with Parliament's leadership, they went to Zakarpatta, where they came from yesterday, to their district council and district administration. They were told, "This is not our jurisdiction, go to the Supreme Council." They came to the Supreme Council, no one came out, they said, "We'll light the tires." And at this point, the police department ordered the former Berkutu to kick people out of the square. That's where the collision started. What is my offer to all the national deputies? Let's set up a day-to-day rotation, and each of us will, of course, meet on a voluntary basis with the people who come to the Council. It's really our responsibility, I don't understand what's upsetting you. If there are demonstrators who come to us with their problems, it is our duty to listen to them. We can agree with them, we may disagree, but in 90 percent of cases this will work. I was talking to the head of the National Police, "Why are you surrounding Parliament with the enormous sherengues of Nazgwardia and the Special Assignees?" People's deputies shouldn't be afraid of people. We're all people-elected. There's no problem meeting any man. I'm ready to sign up for this rotation myself, and I suggest that all of my fellow Members of Parliament do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u87	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I would like to emphasize that the following in the youth bloc that we've been looking at is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in conditions of decentralization." This is an important subject that needs to be discussed in the hall. And we have agreed with the committee head that we will be able to fully discuss the bill and fully consider it, on a full-time basis, so that we can make some form of parliamentary debate on the subject. So that we can make the right decision by studying it deeply. So I suggest we move on to Project Rule 7383 in full procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u88	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. On November 15, 2017, there were parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in conditions of decentralization of power". I would like to inform you that more than 500 people participated in the hearings, including the national deputies of Ukraine, government representatives, representatives of central and local executives, local governments, representatives of local communities, members of youth, children, public and scientific organizations. These hearings have shown that the most pressing problems for young people today remain: material hardship, housing insecurity, the complexity of employment, lack of prospects, limited access to quality education and health care, poor health, unfortunately, for our young people. The participants made a number of reasonable suggestions to the draft recommendations on how to solve key problems for young people. I believe that these recommendations should become a kind of road map for youth policy in conditions of decentralization. Because the success of reforms in the country depends on the future of the Ukrainian State. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the draft ruling is being considered by the Supreme Council in 2018, the request to make appropriate technical corrections is: in paragraph 2 of the draft figure and in the words "September 1, 2017", replace the words "September 1, 2018" with the words "September 1, 2018". Dear colleagues, please support the draft ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u89	There will be questions. Arthur, questions need to be considered in full. And I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. So Borislav Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u90	Mr. Palace, I'd like to hear from you exactly what are your suggestions to motivate young Ukrainians to stay in Ukraine, not to go to Poland, Germany, Australia, Germany, anywhere in the world? What we can do right now, what Parliament can do now, what it can offer, because we want to see some practical initiatives that we can take to remedy this situation. Otherwise, in the near future, we, Ukraine, as a nearly-old nation in Europe, can get a new crisis when we see how the number of Ukrainians is shrinking and there is no one left to work anymore, there is no one left to live. And what will we do with Ukraine then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u91	Thank you so much for asking. This is a very painful question at the outset. We know that in recent times many young Ukrainians have been leaving abroad. There is no way to create young families, and the main problem is housing. What can Parliament do? That's a very good question. First of all, we need to rebuild the building of young people. First, financing youth construction and making clear conditions for young families to have affordable housing. There'll be a job available. And our young people, our talented young people, and many of them, believe me, in Ukraine, will not go abroad for a living. It's not that cute abroad, I'm telling you as head of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u92	Thank you. Romanova Hanna Anatoliyevna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u93	I'm actually going to ask more questions, even though I know the answer, but to get the room's attention. These parliamentary hearings were initiated by the Family, Youth, Sports, and Tourism Profile Committee. In fact, when the 2018 budget was formed, we then made and made proposals to increase the funding of the Youth Credit Fund. What does that mean? Now, how many apartments can young families buy from these cheap loans, just 40 apartments, and here we were offering a committee. So to draw my attention to the room, I have a question about the extent to which all the suggestions of the committee were taken into account, or were all the suggestions of the committee taken into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u94	Thank you, Anna Anatolyevna. I want to say that, unfortunately, today is a big problem. And the proposals of the committee that we accept with you, and our committee works every Tuesday, and it's possible that on Wednesdays, I want to say, unfortunately, they don't find much support in executive power. And we will do everything with you, Anna Anatoliyevna, in order that the executive authorities will carry out those recommendations and the legislative acts that we accept with you on the committee, and then in the Supreme Council Hall, and you and I have also been able to allow young families to receive loans in the amount that is needed today for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u95	Thank you. Sergey’s Eutusek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u96	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you have made it very clear that really, in order to approach young people in a comprehensive manner, you need funding that is unfortunately lacking in Ukrainian citizens. So what I'm going to say is that for three years now, the Ministry has been conducting sociological research, research into what trends are the positive, negative trends among young people? Do we see in this decree, in this bill, that these trends are being implemented on the basis of the sociological research that the Ministry has been carrying out for three years at a time for budget costs? If not, please tell me if you, as chairman of the committee together with the members of the committee, are asking the minister at your committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. We will certainly take this into account in our recommendations. We certainly ask, not only do we ask, we work with the ministries of profile, we make proposals that we work on round tables, that we have round tables every month, with one or the other department of profile to level this situation up. I can assure you, and with your support, and with the support of all the factions, I am very grateful to those deputies who today support the work of our committee, who really don't have politics on our committee, there's only constructive work on our committee. I'm very grateful to those MPs who don't look and shout out, but they do what they have to do, first of all, vote and support the positive changes that our young people make about our children and what about the future of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u98	Thank you. And one last question. The Romance of Simeon is passed on to Romanov. No, it's coming off. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Arthur, for the report. Now we're going to talk from factions and groups, then it's going to be from the people's deputies. And I'm asking the factions and groups that want to participate in the discussion to record. Please take part in the discussion. Please. From the "Fatherland" faction, national deputy Evtushok Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u99	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. In fact, the honourable colleagues, who are in the districts, especially the majority MPs, taking part in all the activities, especially sports content, are faced with the fact that there is always a lack of funding, funding for the upbringing of our young people. And I want to say here about systemic things. Not only the ministries or committee whose head has just spoken and urged us to support this decision should care for, understand, direct finance for the implementation of this youth policy. That's what everyone should do, starting with parents, then preschool education, then education, of course, and then I'll add regional authorities. Clearly, there is a lack of finance. I'll tell you right now, if we're talking about this general thing, this systemic thing. There was no need for a decision to be made in this room, such as that of my constituency, since two out of three areas are in the fourth zone affected by the Chernobyl disaster. A simple decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, and later approved as the State Budget Act of Ukraine, was canceled the fourth zone. Without a single study of whether or not children are more ill or ill, whether they are cancers, or whether they are other diseases, in areas where the area is designated than in other areas, they have been taken and canceled. We've also canceled school meals, and this all shows that we're just not systematic in our way of shaping, including youth policy. As early as 2013, respected colleagues, experts from the youth policy of the Council of Europe conducted research that revealed that a child who is socially vulnerable or overly talented could be observed or shown attention in Ukraine. Other children who might be involved in sports are not encouraged by the state. So clearly at its meeting, the "Fatherland" faction will also support this draft decision. It will also support all the initiatives that come in the context of organizing sports, stimulating sports. It's very common in places from the same athletes that "give at least the least incentive -- and we can show good results." The Fatherland faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u100	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Romanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u101	Colleagues, in fact, now the main problem of Ukrainian society is a major demographic crisis. And now all of our efforts, as to me, must be aimed at restoring the population to leave young talented Ukrainians, to develop, to work for the benefit of Ukraine itself, or else we will just lose ourselves as a state, we will lose ourselves as a state. By the rate of brain drain, there's such a British study, Ukraine's entering five countries in the world, so we're losing our most intellectual potential, and young people are leaving and building other countries in the world. We talk about this all the time in interviews, colleagues, and I, for example, turn on the TV, all the interviews talk about it. And here were the public hearings, over 500 representatives of youth social organizations gathered in this room, they were listening carefully, they're watching us on TV right now, and they're very much waiting on the MPs who are representatives of the state government, the decisions. And in principle, the way we're acting right now in this vote, in this session, it's a very good sign for our young people. Do we really care, as we say in an interview, about the problems of young people on TV, or are they just beautiful words for us? These recommendations gather all the right things and here's about housing, about increasing the funding of the youth lending fund, which is essential, and about protecting our young people's first job, and about education development, and about health development, and about youth tourism, about everything there, these are real recommendations to executive authorities. Now very few people, as always young people have asked on Wednesday. I am sure that even the vote, now will be the speaker, as always, to gather the national MPs to come and press the green button to at least send these recommendations to the executive authorities. Will these recommendations be implemented? Let's see. But once again, the Self-Help Union states that the strategy for overcoming the country's demographic crisis must be developed and become a priority for the development of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, before I give the next word from the speakers, I want to give an important and good news. The Committee on Legal Policy supported the Anti-Corruption Court Act and made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. This gives us the opportunity, perhaps even tomorrow, if there is the will of the hall, to go to the consideration of this impeccable bill. Congratulations, fellows! And from Peter Dustenka's Block to the performance, Sergey Leschenko is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u103	Good afternoon, Ukraine! There's nothing to add to the words of the reporter, Arthur the Chamber, who put it all quite appropriate. And of course, our youth's problem is finding a better destiny abroad. Recently, Bloomberg was published as a shock to the figures that a million Ukrainians have gone abroad in the last two years. Half a million in Poland and 350,000 in Russia. That is, even in the aggressor country, people are looking for a better destiny because their own government, their own state, is unable to provide young people, Ukrainian citizens with jobs that are worthy of life, basic standards, both in safety and in health and in ecology. And of course, Ukrainian youth, it's the most creative thing that goes abroad right now, and it's a shame because Ukrainian youth are one of the most talented people in the world. And maybe you heard yesterday at dinner came a very impressive message, the Amazon company, which belongs to the richest person in the world, Mr. Bezos, it bought Ring for one billion dollars. And the key contribution to the Ring company is the Ukrainian creative class, Ukrainian Aitish, Ukrainian artificial intelligence developers, that is, the youth for whom we should work in the session hall. And so we know that Ukrainian projects, startups, they claim to be themselves around the world, but unfortunately, very often then they go to either the Silicon Valley in America, or Poland, or Scandinavian countries, or other countries where they can have better start-up conditions, investment protection, and the possibility of getting state grants for the development of a creative class and IT industry. Of course, Ukrainian youths are worthy of a better life. And you know that Ukrainian development, for example, in electric fables, is already called "The Body" among electric fables -- this is Delfast, or Ukrainian developers in Grammarly startups known worldwide as a company that checks spelling right in the English world on computers and so on. So this is where we have to invest all our efforts, not in some agrarian oligarchic conglomerates who don't know where to store money anymore, when their yachts don't know where to park near Monte Carlo, and their planes where to park in private airports, and the constant energy projects of oligar Ahmtova through Rotterdam Plus, which we're doing. If we have too much money, let's not give it to Ahmetov with Kosuk, but to Ukrainian etysians so that they can develop their Ukrainian creative class for this money. [[Noise Nodes]] And here they're yelling at the representatives of one of the overlorded factions, and you'd better see that there's an empty hall in the session room on Wednesday. And this is a sign that we need to change the electoral law: behind open lists, so that there is no cheerleader, so that there is no system when people go in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u104	From the People's Front to the word, Taras Kremen is invited. Please. Out of place, right? Please turn on the microphone. Mr. Taras will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u105	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Our faction supports the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. They are extremely important for the development of youth policy in Ukraine. But I would now like to focus on the issues that concern Ukrainian society, especially the results of the Olympic Games in Pyongyang and the day before our Paralympics sent to the world's most important sports competitions. I would like to say that according to the results of this Olympics, of course, how the Ukrainian Parliament should work on mistakes and make everything that is necessary for us to ensure that the Olympic sport and the neo-Olympic sports are maintained not only at the national level but also at the level of local self - government authorities and the permanent creation of united territorial communities. Unfortunately, we have huge systemic problems with the preservation of sports objects and property that are in the territory of local self - government authorities, which very often do not want to take on the balance of large stadiums, swimming pools, I no longer talk about the construction of new children’s, young sports schools, the development of professional sports skills, the promotion of veteran movement. A very important thing is to fix the amount of funding allocated by the State Regional Development Fund to repair and build new sports objects. Unfortunately, at the local level, this figure cannot be maintained, and there are many such examples. At the same time, there are initiatives by local authorities, such as the newly built new pool in Kharkiv a week ago, and this is a huge example of how local authorities can work. The third, very important question is the work of Olympic training centres, which very often do not match the concentration of athletes in clearly defined areas. So, for example, we have the best fencing hall in Ukraine in Nicholas, but unfortunately, we don't have the center of the Olympic training, and in fact we're "washing" our prospective Olympics all over Ukraine, and finally, sports stars like Olga Harlan are forced to spend most of their time in Kiev. The big deal is to protect the professional interests of sports veterans, especially those who have suffered injuries in the course of their professional activities. And we have dozens if not hundreds of such examples, when athletes in preparation for the Olympic Games were lost and actually written off. Besides everything else, I think we should invite not only sports officials to these parliamentary hearings, but also, in fact, our athletes, who show a high score. And I'm taking this initiative, and I'm addressing you, Andry Volodymyrovich, if possible, to support it. Invite the only Olympic champion from Ukraine, Alexander Abramenko of Mikolayev, to a session of our Supreme Council tomorrow, where, unfortunately, there is no condition for the development of fristine, in order to meet and welcome this outstanding Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u106	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u107	I'm sure I'm convinced that we should ask about the development of sport not only in party and sports officials. We have to ask the coaches, we have to ask the Olympic champions, the champions of the world, who at all levels and at all levels celebrate Ukraine, raise and raise the Ukrainian flag higher than we can. So let's help, invite and really support Ukrainian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u108	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Linko. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u109	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, we are discussing a very important problem because the problem of Ukrainian youth is the problem of the Ukrainian future. Without proper education, without normal health and contribution to Ukrainian youth, we'll have not only a demographic problem in 5-10-15 years, we'll have no one to work with, we'll have complete degradation if we don't change the youth policy, if we don't put not only financial efforts there, but the soul. Therefore, the Radical Party will certainly support this decision, as will all decisions aimed at healing and supporting Ukrainian youths. We have a huge problem today that I would like to stress: this is the first problem that concerns young people, education. Today's vocational and technical education, which is really very necessary for employers today. And we, when we meet representatives of large factories, companies, they talk about the fact that professional young people are just professionally technical, employees of electric welders, tractors or any other professions of labor, they're not enough, they're not enough. Because today the state has passed on vocational and technical education to local budgets, and they're not getting that education. Education is what the state should be concerned about, not local budgets that are more concerned about communal problems. The second problem for Ukrainian youth is why they go abroad, why mass emigration. Because there's not enough work, there's no normal pay. So we need to systematically raise minimum standards, raise minimum wages. What the Radical Party is always talking about and what we're asking the government to do. The housing program. It's not possible to buy a place in Kiev or any other city. In the areas, I often go to Kirovograd district, there are no teachers or normal doctors. Old doctors are already retiring, and new ones are not coming because there is no way to buy housing. Who will go to the district center where housing is impossible and work for a living? Of course, young people go abroad because they have higher wages. So housing and housing lending is exactly the kind of problem that the National Bank should be looking at. Give me some young loans, give me a chance to buy some apartments. Because those prices that are today, they're completely out of line with the wages that exist. Next. We have a large descendant of the Soviet Union -- DOSAAF -- who are actually left alone today, and they are destroying themselves, these infrastructure objects that could be used for and for the patriotic upbringing of young people, and for the healing of young people, for sporting activities. We, the Radical Party, are already doing, we have created a youth wing of the Radical Party to enable young people to gain political experience, to create social elevators for Ukrainian youth to take power. So they can work. Not what the authorities are asking us to bring here experts from abroad who will rob the country and then leave, and there will be no responsibility. Let's create, young people a chance to work in Ukraine, run the country and create something normal for our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u110	Thank you. There's no more wantons from factions and groups, is there? Colleagues, before I go to the speeches by the national deputies, I will give the floor to three minutes, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Jaremi Alexander Josephovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to focus your attention on the document that is currently under consideration, namely, the decision on the outcome of hearing about the situation of young people, the role of young people and the formation of State youth policy in Ukraine, being considered in this room by young people from all regions of Ukraine. Youths living in communities, representatives of youth, children’s organizations, and local self - government were represented. And this document that you're looking at is the joint work of all participants and parliamentary hearings, and government institutions, and civil society institutions, and it's very important -- it was done in the same way on a profile committee. It is very important for us today to form a model of work, of youth work at the local level. There would be no matter where a young person lives, whether they live in a megapolis or live in a community, they would have access to adequate information, jobs, services that help to develop and become competitive. We are speaking today, and this is actually reflected in the decision that is on the agenda, the creation and development of youth infrastructure at community level, the development of first and foremost attention to informal education, helping young people to get skills that help to be competitive and competitive in Ukraine today, regardless of where they are and what they are doing. And a very important element is the inclusion and role of young people in decision-making, that is to say, the actual creation of mechanisms for today, how a young person can be an active participant in the changes that take place in the country, starting from community level to national level. Please support the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u112	Thank you. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the discussion of this decision by the Ukrainian people's deputies. We'll take 20 minutes to talk. I now ask all those who wish to sign up to discuss this decision. Please, National Deputy Unguryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u113	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Thank you for the opportunity to speak on this important subject. It's very good that we're looking at it as a whole. First of all, I would like to thank, as always, the Family, Youth and Sports Committee, the head of the committee, the head of the subcommittee, the Sporish College, which deals with issues of childhood, family, young people, the Ministry of Profiles, Minister Igor Zhdanov and Alexander Jaremi, the deputy minister, for their extremely important work. Colleague Romanov has already stressed, and, I think we should just be aware that we have today with the next generation of Ukrainians. Fellows, let's think about the numbers. Last year, in 2017, the population of Ukraine decreased by more than 200,000. We are estimated both by international institutions, and unfortunately this is recognized and officially by one of the ministries, Ukraine enters, enters into the 30 oldest countries in the world. So the dynamics of birth do not follow the dynamics of mortality. The dynamic of creating new families is so small that it does not cover the need for new Ukrainian citizens who would be born to become patriots and professionals. We have a very frightening divorce dynamic, and this leads to young people entering into responsible relationships between boys and girls without taking responsibility without realizing the responsibility behind this decision to form a family. As a result, we have more than 62 percent of Ukrainian families that are part of a divorce. At the same time, the percentage of divorces that we're talking about today is actually typical of the Ukrainian youth. So the vast majority of divorces are divorces in the first 3-5 years of life together. It's all about a really deep crisis, a crisis both valuable and a socio-economic crisis. So I think we should add to the resolution, to the recommendation of parliamentary hearings, the need for a spiritual and moral component in educated young people, as well as to the Council of National Security and Defence, requiring that we consider the issue of demographics in the PNDP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u114	Please give the next speech from Jehora Sobolev. Please. The word Yegor Sobolev Oleni Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u115	Alona Babak "Unification" Self - Help. I don't believe it, I don't believe this House, I don't believe any of the speeches that were here today. I do not believe myself as a member of this Parliament in the sincerity of all that is said today in this rostrum. This Parliament, if it wants, can do anything, and may, by adopting a budget for any year, change to it, not vote in favour of the budget, if it does not have a significant increase in the funding of the youth housing programme. This Parliament can do anything. Not 30 million of the funny things about the youth housing funding program are to allocate as much as 2 billion dollars. And realizing that 2 billion dollars if you co-finance 50 by 50 with a young person will give you 4 billion jobs in one year or another. Dear colleagues, let us make a commitment not to vote on any change to Ukraine’s State Budget without a clear action designed to make a young person see himself in that State so as to be able to finance youth construction under the mortgage program. Friends, a young man on a salary of 10,000 dollars counts as the only social contribution in the year 26,000,400 dollars. That's how many middle pensions? We can't afford any young person who works today, even for 10,000 dollars, to go to another country for $600, because he doesn't see himself and this country from the point of view of getting housing. Friends! We cannot continue to speak from this rostrum that we will press on a government that cannot hear us. What the hell is going on?Oh, my God! We can just tell the government and the whole state and every young person that this Parliament will not make any budgetary changes without a youth housing funding programme. This is the first and key task that we should simply set and implement, not stand out of this rostrum and constantly say that someone is not listening to us. We can do anything and this Parliament can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u116	Taras Shepherd, please. I can't see. Mrs. Romanova, please. Mrs. Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u117	In fact, after the performance of such a colleague, there is little that can be added. But I want to talk to the young right now. The point is that all those young people, the leaders of youth social organizations, who participated in those hearings and appealed to the national MPs. They're, I'm sure, watching the vote now, and now they're watching TV, watching us vote. I now have a great appeal to young people, to active young people, to these leaders of public organizations. Come to the election, look at every deputy who actually supported you, as now voted, who was in the hall, and who only in beautiful words supports you, and who supports you in real action and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u118	Please, Andrew Illenko would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u119	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Of course, we need to make decisions, adopt these recommendations of parliamentary hearings, and there are no questions. But there is an opportunity to discuss an important subject for young people in Ukraine. And, you know, the main thing is that we're already not even on the threshold of disaster, but we're already in the process of disaster. Because even if we take predictions from the United Nations, for example, by the size of our nation’s population, they are catastrophic. Already today, millions of Ukrainians are going abroad, mostly young people, they're people who should be working here, paying taxes here, creating a family here, having children here, but they're going abroad today, and we understand why it's happening. Of course, there are slogans, there are calls, there are things to be done, but the prime example is the case. When in Ukraine today the lowest wage levels in Europe, when in Ukraine today one of the highest levels of corruption, when people today realize what to do with their career in Ukraine, get a normal job, get some perspective without connections, without mud, without corruption, it is almost impossible, it is clear that people are being deliberately encouraged to leave the country. Yes, there are those who will remain, but most people will choose to live normally where it is possible to get it. And those countries in which Ukrainians are going today, they're really interested in this, they need smart people, they need people who are going to work in their country, they're going to enrich their economy, they're going to pay taxes in their countries, and they're even stimulating this process, they're creating conditions and so on. So we need to understand that in the process, in the context of demographics, of the catastrophic demographic situation in Ukraine, that we have in principle low birth rates, high mortality and so on, and if we impose this on the mass exodus of young people abroad, we simply can't get enough population for all of Ukraine. And so the main thing is the real change in the economic, political system in Ukraine. What Freedom offers is the total dismantling of this oligarchitic economy, the oligarchitic politics that has created potentially one of the richest countries in Europe, the poorest country in Europe, one of the lowest levels of living, one of the highest levels of corruption, is the main issue. To that end, there is a Parliament to adopt laws that move our country forward. And some of the slogans will not be enough, you need concrete steps to make people realize that you can live comfortably, normally in Ukraine. What you can do here is develop small and medium-sized businesses, get a normal job, get a normal perspective, get normal authorities working for people, not bandits, then get a normal situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u120	Please, Taras Kremen is invited to the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Veliczovich is speaking the word Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! This decree must be voted on. It needs to be voted on, not by the Supreme Council Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, but for many other reasons. The first reason is to just remember who went to Midan in 2013 and who was the basis of the protest movements during this period? They were young. Who was one of the first to go to the front in 2014? They were young people, patriotic people, and those who today want to live in a normal country. Today, a few weeks ago, we held a competition for the youth capital of Ukraine, where 56 cities differed from the districts to the cities that are the center of the territorial communities. We've seen a very promising picture that young people don't stand outside, young people want to be at the heart of the process. They want to participate in community development, they want to participate in politics, in businesses where they can implement themselves. And our task as parliamentarians is to create conditions for young people to have every opportunity to realize themselves. It is not only our responsibility but also our responsibility to reach out and help young people feel that they are in their country and that they are in the future. Many young people go abroad to gain education, knowledge, and even to earn money. But they're coming back, a lot of those young people, they're going back to the country, and they want to apply everything they got here in the country where they live, where their parents live, where their loved ones live. So our task is to create conditions for them to be able, through these social elevators, to climb up and become the ones that will set up our country's future. I call on all colleagues, regardless of factions, regardless of the MPs, to support this decision and vote. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u122	No, it's something with the "Honey" system. Irina Podovak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a slightly different accent. We are all in our crane building our electoral or electoral rhetoric, oriented towards those who come to vote. And for many years, we all realize that our rhetoric should apply to those who come to the polling station in a disciplined manner. And so statistics show that older people come to the polling station, and that's the electoral rhetoric of all political forces, according to those people, and the focus of pre-election programs and promises. And in fact, there's a very big crisis and there's a very big problem. Young people should not simply want to participate in social elevators and government. Young people need to understand that if you are not going to the elections and do not vote for the future you want for yourself tomorrow, it will never come. And there's a big problem and a big problem, and in fact, I'd like to make this statement on my own to ask young people to come to the elections, if they didn't happen and whatever they might be. And at least then we hope that in a year, 2, 3, 5, 10 is the future that we all dream of, it will come. Besides, I'd like to say that we have a lot of crises in public policy right now. And the problem of youth policy is equally critical because it is not there. Because it was only supposed to lend housing to young people, although no doubt it was one of the most important tools. It is important to have a government program and a public policy that is relevant and that involves not only the Ministry of Youth but also the Ministry of Education in the first place. We have to give credit for higher education. We have to change the situation that we now have, that we lack teachers of Ukrainian language or mathematics, or physicists who would teach in Ukrainian in Zakarpatta or in Bukovin. We lack teachers who teach in Ukrainian in eastern Ukraine, and they need incentives. We need secondary education, because it's the cornerstone of the state's development, not failures, forgive me, I hope it's not mass, but the best in secondary education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u124	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u125	To get the best universities of Ukraine to go to high school, and to have incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Borislav Bereza, let's get you to the show. Firemark National MP. Please, National Deputy Firemark. Please, National Deputy Ivan Sporish. You and I are different. do not match, do not match, or what happens? What? I thought we had it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I love my husband, Baby, and you're a cow. I thought you loved your wife. What a horror, listen, it's just a horror! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, as I understand it, the following is happening. As the creative discussion of who loves whom comes along, we find that we have different letters. I've got Bereza now, Firemark, Sporish. If you have any other letters, please, we'll come back and compile all of these. I give my word to Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u127	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, we are considering even in a semiempty room today, perhaps even less important. Because there will be no young people, there will be no Ukraine. And we understand that very well. And that's why, as the chairman of our committee said on November 17th, plenary hearings were held on the theme "Formation and implementation of Ukrainian State Youth Policy." I'm going to say that quite a lot of national MPs took part in and performed in this room, maybe more than ten. There were more than 500 young people in our Ukraine from every corner of the country. And so very much. Their eyes glowed, they spoke from this rostrum, and they hoped that we would really make the right decisions that would be directed to places. But none of the speakers said that today's issue is the formation of our young in conditions of decentralization. That's why I wanted to say a few words about that. Since the united territorial communities, whose funds are now in place, should think for young people, they should also think for housing. They have to think about getting the kids out of school after all. And so you can get a job after school. And it seems to me that here in places of decentralization, there should be a lot of attention given to both the heads and the deputies of the united territorial communities. Because again, we are translating this into places of united territorial communities. It's a very important question that we have to ask today. Today we are discussing the road map of our young people for the future. And if the right decision is to be sent to places today, we will see it by vote. I'm more than sure that today none of us will press a red or yellow button, all of us will press a green button, but once again, we don't have enough votes in the room, and that's what we understand. So I would very much like to ask you a question. It was returned and given a road map to our young people to give more attention to young people in places of decentralization in the united territorial communities. And not just. I support all the speakers and Alona Babak, because, really, she told the truth that we should do everything to make young people live with their homes, and all the speakers, because it really should be for our young people. But at the same time, today we are the only ones who will not make this decision just because there are no votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u128	Thank you. Colleagues, I just want to remind you to understand that the ruling can move without a hitch two days after the vote. Borislav Bereza is invited to attend. Please. From the rostrum, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine is indeed shrinking, not only territorially because of Russia's aggression against Ukraine in Crimea and on Donbas. No, it's not. Who knows how many people in Ukraine are now? Official sources say 42 million, 39 million. How about 30? How about 28? The census could answer that question. But they don't. There is other information: Every month Poland provides nearly 100,000 work visas for Ukrainians. And I want to say that yes, people are going to work. But it's not because they can't find a job here. From other questions. Because there is no order in the country. Because there is no security in the country. Because there is no future for young people in the country. Young people are looking for a good education, young people are looking for normal medicine, young people are looking for a future. Perhaps young people do not see their future in Ukraine. Why? Let me give you an example that you've all seen. If there was now a question of gas, oil, coal, forest, or anything else in the room, if the question of compensation for chicken, veal, milk, land, would be more than 226 votes. But the question of how young people probably don't care much about most of the deputies in this room, or we'd see more than 300 deputies here. And we see probably not more than 150. Is this a disgrace? Yes, it's a disgrace! But such an attitude should sooner or later strike at this parliament. A lot of people say here, "We don't want to go to elections." If you don't want to go to the election, come to the Supreme Council. Come and work, accept laws for the benefit of society, for the sake of young people. Not only do you talk to yourself in the districts or on television screens about how you care about young people. You don't just have to say it. There is also something to do to keep young people from leaving Ukraine. And young people will only stay when they see that your children live in Ukraine, that your children receive education in Ukraine, that your children are being treated in Ukraine. And then they'll stay, too. There's no other way. Another way, really, we don't have anyone. We may lose Ukraine, but we have no right. That's why I'm addressing everyone who's in the room again. Contact your colleagues. They should begin to take responsibility for Ukraine, Ukraine’s future. And not only in words, but also in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u130	Thank you, colleagues. The time spent on giving a speech by the national deputies is exhausted. Now the closing word. I would like to invite Jarem Alexander Josephovich, deputy minister, first of all. And the committee head, get ready. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the positions that have been expressed. In fact, we cannot help but agree that youth policy is intersectoral, and therefore interests, and rights, and what it refers to young people, we can see in different spheres. And that's how we build the work and our ministry, and when we look at the question of youth employment, which is among the priorities, we build it with the business sector, so we work with colleagues from the Ministry of Social Policy. If we're talking about skills development, skills, we're working with the Ministry of Education, and we're actually working with those public initiatives that are geared towards working with young people. All youth policies and especially decentralization policies are policies that can be built up and can be successful only through partnerships and the development of interaction between different sectors of the state, local self-government, business, the public. So I would ask you to support this determination, to give impetus to the further development and formation of youth work, starting with the community, because it really has a lot of important points in it, how a young person living in the community can get additional opportunities, additional knowledge, develop personal and develop their community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u132	Thank you. John Sporish is invited from the committee to the closing statement. Turn on the microphone, from the spot. Please. Maybe you should switch cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u133	All of them, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u134	Three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u135	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. We've discussed a lot, and, I think today, everyone in this room will support this issue. Well, again, we have three buttons ahead of us that are green, yellow and red, and of course we all realize that we're going to press green, but unfortunately we're not going to find the number of votes. But there are some changes that young people are waiting for us to make. Young people in places are waiting and living, and the work is appropriate, and we all have to send our hearings back to places so that young people can expect young people to understand what they think about them. Because once again, I want to repeat that there were more than 500 children in this room, and they. So burning eyes, they stood out of the rostrum and hoped that they would eventually be able to get something from us. And each of the national deputies spoke for it. But we have to be simple. I want to ask everyone to come into the hall and let us vote for it. We voted in favour of the decree so that we would not drag it away. Because in conditions of decentralization, we have to think first of all about young people. And one or the other head of a united territorial community will think that he will be voted for in the future. It should give everything to young people: both work and housing – and think for young people, and youth centers open. In this way, I think we could support this decision, really, the decision of our session to send places to the united territorial communities and think that our young people deserve us to think for Ukraine. Because, again, there will be no Ukraine -- there will be no young ones. Thank you very much. And I look forward to a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-28-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish the discussion. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Please take up your jobs. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. There was a chance, colleagues. We've been through all the discussions. We've been through every step of the way. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I want to remind you. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that we're considering a regulation, not a law, and the decision has one difference: it can be transposed literally in a few days. And this does not pose a problem as before the law. And so I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. This is a decree on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it can be transposed even if we don't get enough votes. We talked about an important topic, and we talked about the very topic of parliamentary hearings that the committee is preparing. And I, colleagues, ask you to support the committee's decision. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization." The Committee's proposal to accept as a whole number 7383. And I'm asking you to support the committee's decision, please. [[13:45:40.]] For-164 The decision is not made. But I stress once again that the committee can move it, and I'm sure we'll find time to support this draft decision. I wish you a fruitful preparation for the organization and transfer of this decree. You'll be able to make suggestions on the committee course, and the committee, I'm sure, will take these proposals into account. Colleagues, we don't have time to be able to consider any more of the bills that are in order of the day. A very important and difficult day today is committee work. And I wish, my friends, for all the fruitful work on the committees. Tomorrow will be a busy and busy day. And I'd like us to be as mobilized as possible tomorrow. At 10 a.m., I invite everyone to be in the hall to continue our work. And now I want everyone to do a productive job on the committees. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Today, by the way, we have adopted three important bills and ratifications that were very important to our interstate relations with Croatia. Congratulations on that. And I'll see you tomorrow.
