ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u1	Mrs. Members, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and the Under-Secretary of State of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Development, Mr. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft deliberation No 29 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Management of BES and the Holy Spirit Group, to the process leading to the implementation of the resolution measure and its consequences, including developments and options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank ( RA President ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u3	Let us then begin our agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No. 289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of State institutional advertising campaigns and the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies. To introduce the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This bill, which we are presenting today to the Assembly of the Republic and which we are discussing today, follows from another proposal which has been put forward on transparency regarding the ownership of the media. This proposal applies to the institutional advertising sector and aims at three primary objectives: greater transparency in the launch of institutional advertising campaigns of public bodies, greater opportunities in access to the market for institutional advertising, particularly by looking at the position of the press, local and regional media agencies and greater monitoring and effectiveness of the current law. This proposal fully meets these three objectives. The institutional advertising regime which is in force, dispersed by various legal and regulatory instruments, clearly lacks revision and clarification. This dispersion has caused no little confusion to those who promote institutional advertising campaigns about the actual scope of the provisions of the current Decree-Law No 231/2004, which applies to information and publicity actions of the State without any limitation of the type of advertising or information action concerned. After more than 10 years of approval of the 2004 diploma, only 50 % of the bodies covered comply with the obligation to communicate expenditure in advertising actions. The amount reported is also much lower than it should be and therefore also the amount affecting the local and regional press has been significantly reduced. This data attests to the failure to comply with the law in force, so it is necessary to make it clear that these are rules applicable to the institutional advertising campaigns of the State where the link between the advertising message and the public service purposes or missions is more clearly linked. It was then vital to consider, in the distribution of the state's institutional advertising, the existence of new media in digital media, which, it is said, still lacks legal framework in the law of the press, or new cable channels aimed at local and regional hearings. We cannot, of course, ignore a principle in this area, which is the principle of adequacy, which guarantees that institutional advertising should always follow the most appropriate means and format for its purposes. It will always be necessary to balance the purposes and purposes of each advertising campaign, and it is up to the promoting body to determine which specific division between the media it intends for the campaign. It was also understood that legal force should be given to the substantive requirements laid down in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 47 / 2010 applicable to the institutional advertising of the State. In particular, it was intended to ensure respect for rights, freedoms and guarantees, both of public entities promoting advertising campaigns, and of social media bodies. And here I am also referring to the values of gender equality and the values of non-discrimination that also appear in this proposal. A crucial new feature of this proposal is the extension of the scope to the institutional advertising campaigns of the state business sector, strictly by public service concession firms, allowing the amounts affected to quadruply multiply. For the principle of discussion, we restrict ourselves to concessionary companies, but we believe that this forecast can be beneficial and, just in the context of parliamentary work, be extended to the entire public business sector. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the degree of compliance with this scheme is, as has been seen, reduced and the control system based solely on the reporting of expenditure by ineffective producer bodies. As a measure of efficiency and simplification of the Administration, we want to reaffirm and frame the powers of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication in this matter. In fact, the ERC is the competent authority, in the use of its regulatory and supervisory powers, to monitor the conformity of State advertising campaigns with the constitutional principles of impartiality and exemption from public administration. It is also up to the ERC to ensure the conditions of a transparent and equitable advertising market. Normative reasons, but also in principle, are these so that support rules, rules of action are also defined for the ERC in the field of monitoring the State's institutional advertising campaigns. This means that the ERC will monitor the advertising actions to be carried out and draw up a report on the award of information and publicity actions, which should be available online. However, in order to monitor and strengthen the degree of compliance with the rules of this diploma, a supervisory mechanism based on the payment of institutional advertising campaigns is established. This means that the payment of campaigns will not be allowed without the respective expenditure being recorded in the ERC and without the criteria for the allocation to the media provided for in the diploma. It is therefore necessary to verify that the requirements of the scheme are being met, thus introducing an ex ante and no longer ex post verification mechanism. This logic will fall on the campaign promoters and private bodies who are engaged in the task of verifying that the requirements of the scheme are being met. It is therefore intended, with this new regime, to ensure a better result and greater effectiveness of public campaigns promoted by the State, valuing the activity of local and regional media agencies and their added value for the optimization of advertising campaigns. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that this principle of fairness has also led us to, at the level of institutional advertising but mandatory advertising, determine that all operations approved in the framework of Portugal 2020 are subject to alternate publicity in one of the local or regional newspapers of greater circulation of the municipality where this operation is carried out. This proposal, in short, gives greater transparency to the state's institutional advertising campaigns, enhances social communication as a whole, particularly the local and regional, enhances the regulatory function of the ERC and values the advertising market itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u5	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification: Deputies Augustinho Santa, of the PS, Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD, Paulo Almeida, of the CDS-PP, João Ramos, of the PCP, and José Moura Soeiro, of the BE. In the meantime, we already have the information from the government board that Mr. Secretary of State will answer these questions together. Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u6	Mr Agostinho Santa ( PS ) : — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, I would like to ask two questions very quickly and as directly as possible. As you have just said, one of the assumptions for presenting this bill was the clarification of concepts and the simplification of rules and procedures. Besides everything else, was that achieved? This is the first generic question I ask. Is the regiment clearer and simpler? I only refer to one example to see how clarification has been made. We see the paradigmatic case of the operational concept of State, which is fundamental, then, to measure what is here in terms of clarity. in this diploma, sometimes it is spoken in entities discriminated against by the state, in others it is spoken in state without more. Because there is no more time to look for other situations, but there are others in which this happens, see the case of Article 6. the, about the non-permission of the realization and publication of information and publicity actions. Paragraph 1 states that the entities referred to in paragraph 2 are not allowed, which are the entities that referred to as discriminated against, and paragraph 2 states that it is not allowed to the State. What are we in, after all? Some of the entities referred to in Article 3 ( 2 ). they shall be removed from Article 6 ( 2 ). o? And the situation of RTP, for example, to be even clearer, is or is not included in the non-permission of advertising pursuant to Article 6 ( 2 ). o? This is the first situation that was indeed necessary to clarify. The second situation we have raised here is the following: much of the useful effect that is intended to be achieved by achieving control levels, more effective monitoring levels. This is one of the assumptions. In accordance with the principle of transparency, in four years, the State has failed, after all, to ensure that its own organic entities, in respect of which it interfered, fulfil the obligation of a report, not even quarterly or annual, to be monitored by the media office. Ensure now that the Regulatory Entity is in a position to be so persistent and so pressing that it obtains such an ex ante report that it has spoken, 15 days after the contract of Article 7. the, be done by the promoters? It is that if this is not achieved, then we will maintain the same problem as we had before, of control and supervision difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u7	Mr. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, the Secretary of State presents to us today, here, Bill No. 289 / XII ( 4 ). a ), which, in fact, runs very clearly, either from the explanatory statement, or from the articulation of this bill, aims to clarify and introduce a notion of transparency and optimization in this issue of institutional advertising. It makes clear what is to be considered institutional publicity of the State, broadens the scope of the institutional advertising campaigns and brings us a notion of a change in order to improve the monitoring process which, in fact, was mentioned here by the Socialist Party as having not worked before, which I admit, Mr Secretary of State, but correcting-CL will be one of the reasons why the bill is presented here, i.e., for it to work objectively now. This proposal for a law is extremely clear in its articulation to allow not only the monitoring process to work but also for those to whom it is directed to understand that what is intended to introduce a concept of clarification and simplification of these mechanisms, optimization mechanisms on the issue of the institutional publicity of the State, adapting them also to the change of reality with regard to the legislation which it formerly regulated — with this bill will no longer regulate this same issue of the institutional advertising of the State — and introducing the notion of transparency. These notions of clarification, optimization, adequacy and transparency must be, and have been, in the opinion of the PSD Parliamentary Group, a form of being of this government which, of course, we do not want to fail to welcome. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So we want to ask you the following: how is it that, according to what you are now introducing in this bill, these social, regional and local communication bodies are valued in the various areas to which this diploma refers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u9	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that all banks will certainly agree that the treatment of this issue of institutional advertising by the State has permeated several governments in a not very linear manner, with some volatility. Indeed, in 2004 Decree-Law No 231/2004 laid down the rules applicable to the distribution of information and publicity actions by the State, on national territory, by local radios and by the regional press, on paper or on electronic support. In 2010 the 18th Constitutional Government proposed, at the time, the need, because it felt it, to make the rules on the distribution of state advertising more effective. At the end of last year—and I don't want to touch VV. Ex.as — in December 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the extinction of the Office for Social Communication, transferring its responsibilities to the Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, to the Coordination and Regional Development Committees and to the Agency for Development and Cohesion, through Decree-Law No 24 / 2015. In view of this whole sequence, and because it seems to us that the main problem of the regime in force really focuses on compliance with the law and advertising, I ask the Secretary of State how this bill will ensure greater effectiveness and enforcement of the law, as well as a more equitable distribution of institutional advertising by social media bodies. After all, it seems to us that this is the main problem of the regime that has been in force. How do you and the Government, through this proposal, intend to achieve this wish? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u11	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, made the presentation of this bill as if it were substantive legislation on this subject, but in particular, what it is about changing the accompanying entity and placing the ERC as a monitoring entity. It even maintains the same values in support: initiatives up to €15 000 exempt and division of 25%, increasing for electronic means. Mr. Secretary of State spoke in multiple diplomas. I would like to remind you that you only revoke two diplomas, one on advertising and the other on the database. So they're not as multiple as that. As regards this issue of values, the percentage of 25 % for the media, regional and local bodies remains in relation to the previous legislation. In view of these 25 % and the minimum value of €15 000, it will represent €4200 for all the country's press and €3600 for all the country's radios. This if we're talking about a publicity campaign for the minimum. So the questions I ask you are: how did you get to these values? What studies were conducted to verify that these were the correct values? Did they equalize the increase over these values? I would also like to ask whether the inclusion of a criterion of non-discrimination of social media bodies has been equated. It is that the set of criteria that are established allows some discretion regarding the distribution of these funds and these support and there is no non-discretionary criteria. It is not mentioned whether or not it has been equalized. Finally, I am referring to the publicity of the State in bodies which are mostly owned by public entities. In Article 8. the bill has a clear reference to RTP, saying that the advertising of RTP is not involved in these percentages. However, Article 6. it is mentioned that the relationship of state advertising actions in media bodies which are mostly held by public entities is not allowed. I know we're talking about local and regional communication, but I wonder, is this a test? Is there any prospect of placing restrictions on the advertising and dissemination of State activities in public media bodies, particularly in the RDP and in the RTP? Does this prospect exist? From the perspective of the bodies which are mostly owned by public entities cannot access the support, I ask: which are, in particular, the media bodies that remain outside? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u13	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u14	Mr President, Secretary of State, this discussion on the institutional publicity of the State is not a heated discussion. It is also part of a broader debate on the policies of state incentives for social communication, particularly local and regional, on the promotion of literacy, on policies for social communication and on how to debate the best institutional structure to carry out this mission. We are now debating this debate in the Assembly of the Republic after the Government has passed by decree on the State incentive regime for social communication—in fact, with some sensitive issues on the participation by the State of the costs of the postal dispatch of periodical publications—and after the Government has also extinguished, by decree, the Office for the Means of Social Communication, having therefore sprayed its powers. Mr Secretary of State, the first question I put to you is therefore a criticism: do you not think that this debate would make more sense if it were framed in this broader debate here in Parliament? Do you not understand, Mr Secretary of State, that the fact that the Government has waived this set of matters to the debate, to the opinion and to the decision of Parliament has caused us all to lose in this discussion? I would like to ask you another question, which has to do with the way in which the publicity of the State is distributed through the various local and regional media, but also by the various bodies. In the preamble to the bill, the Government identifies the existence of reduced compliance levels, either from the point of view of the quarterly report or from the point of view of the cost allocation, pointing, in fact, to the ineffectiveness of the distribution of State expenditure by the local and regional press. However, the criteria on the planning of the state's institutional advertising include the geographical impact, the target public, drawing, periocity, audience, quality, but there is no reference, nor any particular requirement for distribution, by the different bodies that exist in the same location, such advertising. This, knowing that, many times, the concentration of advertising in a particular organ, in a certain newspaper, ensuring that a significant part of its funding has, in this way, created, in particular at the local level, mechanisms of influence and political hegemony which are problematic. Would it not also be worth taking action on this from a legislative point of view? Finally, I would like to ask you a question which has already been raised, or touched on, on the question of the ERC — the entity over which the Government is throwing powers and, in this particular context, it is responsible to monitor compliance with the law, to make a monthly report on the award of information and publicity actions and to make an annual report on the assessment of compliance with the law. These powers which are attributed to the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication take place in a framework in which the Government, by means of an earlier decree of law this year, has extinguished the Office for the Social Media which had already succeeded the Institute of Social Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u15	I would like to conclude, Mr President, even though there is an assumption of global time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u16	I will finish, Madam President. Having today the ERC one tenth of the workers it has had, it is not sensitive, Mr Secretary of State, to the warning of one of the advisers, who said — and I end by quoting him — that "the planned transfer of responsibility for the supervision of this allocation without the regulatory authority having any means to execute it with indispensable effectiveness will lead to inevitable problems". How can you ensure that these problems will not arise in the context of this law? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u17	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that this proposal was submitted in Parliament for many months before it was formally presented, and there were several sessions in the Ethics Committee to discuss it. I therefore reply to Mr José Moura Soeiro saying that the statement that the debate has not been sought here in Parliament cannot be more inaccurate. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] On the issue raised by Mr Agostinho Santa's Socialist Party, the accuracy of concepts is very clear. unlike the 2004 diploma, which made no distinction about the type of advertising, the diploma now under discussion is clear: it applies to institutional advertising and identifies public bodies that are subject to this type of advertising. It is a very significant step towards the 2004 diploma. It is good to remember that RTP has, in accordance with its concession contract, a special standard which confers a discount of not less than 85 % of the commercial cost of space to those who transmit institutional advertising in the RTP. This means that, for obvious reasons of interest and public service, there is reason to exclude RTP from this type of scheme — unless it is intended to cannibalize at this level at RTP's revenue level — since there is already this special rule that makes a discount of not less than 85 % on the institutional advertising transmitted on the public channel. Several Mrs. Members have questioned me about the effectiveness of this regime. For us, compliance with the law must be placed within the framework of regulation, and the flag of regulation is common to many parties of Parliament. Therefore, by placing the guarantee of compliance with the law, transparency duties and metrics necessary to affect institutional advertising, the local and regional press, necessarily requires a strengthening of the participation of the ERC. That means, and I am therefore answering a number of questions from the honourable Members. Members — that any entity that is entering into a campaign covered by this diploma shall not fulfil the communication obligations to the ERC and that the contractual rules provided for therein shall not be fulfilled is at risk of non-payment. Pure and simply, run the risk of not being paid! Thus, it will be up to the Public Administration and the private to ensure that the diploma is effectively fulfilled. The faster the communication to the Regulatory Entity, the faster the payment of the campaign can be made, which, in our view, is a sufficient incentive for that communication to take place and for the expenditure to be made in accordance with what is envisaged in the diploma. This is a mechanism that, contrary to the mechanism for centralizing control by a State entity, which has clearly not resulted, assures us that the Regulatory Entity can control expenditure with advertising which is registered and can also ensure payment of that same campaign, demonstrating compliance with the percentages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u19	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u20	I shall conclude, Madam President. On the regional and local press, there is a very relevant data: in the current regime, 1 % of advertising is affected by digital media, but now, with this diploma, this percentage is high to 6 %, which also means a strengthening of the advertising and the media that exist in the digital context. Finally, Mr President of the Communist Party asked me what studies have been done on...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I know you have to answer to the Members, but I ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u22	Mr President, in a word, the study we did pointed out the need to maintain the limit of €15 000 of advertising campaign values, for a very simple reason: looking at the values that were reported in 2013, if we reduced the value of €15 000 this would lead to an increase of only €10 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u23	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u24	So to conclude, for these many reasons and for the strengthening of regulation and the advertising market, we are absolutely sure and a great conviction that this is a good proposal, in defense of the local and regional press and also of the advertising market. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Areses has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House is today called to discuss Bill No. 289 / XII ( 4. ( a ) setting out the rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of the State's institutional advertising campaigns and the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies. We welcome this government initiative, because it reflects a proactive, attentive and diligent attitude of the Executive, in the face of the new challenges that technological advances are putting into the media universe. Above all, we welcome this initiative because it aims, first and foremost, to safeguard the unmistakable values of transparency, justice and the defence of the common sense. It is true that this is the only acceptable position in an adult democratic society, but it has not always been so, and not all have always acted on behalf of these values. Looking at recent decades, it is easy to find regrettable situations, in which certain forces, through the most diverse files, sometimes very resourceful, have waged in the conditioning and editorial control of the media, particularly through the financial garrote. That is why, especially because of this, we welcome this legislative initiative. In doing what needs to be done, it is doing what few, rarely, have done, i.e., to safeguard the values of transparency and justice, within the framework of the State's institutional advertising campaigns, and to defend legitimate interests in this field of local and regional media. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone will agree that the evolution and transition of the media to online distribution has made the current spending allocation regime inappropriate with the state's institutional advertising. In view of this situation, the Government is proposing, in good time, to adjust the means available for the purposes for which it is intended, simplify procedures, improve transparency in the allocation of expenditure and encourage the modernisation of local and regional media bodies. With this measure, it is intended to increase the value of the amounts to be distributed by the media and extend the scope of the application to the institutional advertising campaigns of the business sector of the State, including advertising relating to the governance of European funds. In addition, with regard to the mandatory advertising of Portugal 2020, it is intended to recall the innovation of the diploma of the governance of European funds, the responsibility of the current Executive, which is sent to publish in one of the local newspapers of the highest hearing the operations approved in the framework of the funds, as indeed the Secretary of State has already mentioned here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u28	The reform we are discussing today still provides for clarification of what should or should not be considered institutional advertising, as well as the establishment of a supervisory mechanism. In fact, the powers of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, the monitoring of the fulfilment of communication duties and the application of the percentage to affect local and regional communication bodies in each campaign, as well as the verification of the allocation of the use of certain means of communication to the detriment of another, are clarified. A mechanism is also established to monitor compliance with the rules on communication, advertising and expenditure, based on the payment of institutional advertising campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u30	It is therefore up to both the campaign promoters and the private companies with whom they are engaged to verify that the requirements of the scheme now created are being met. in this task of clarifying the rules applicable to the distribution of the state's institutional advertising, we are only concerned: to ensure a more comprehensive, fairer coverage of the public that is more equitable from the state's institutional communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u32	by valuing these principles, by electing these good practices, the state not only affirms itself as a person of good, but also shows zeal for greater effectiveness of the institutional advertising of the state and for greater access to the market, by the local and regional press. With this bill, we are taking a very important step in affirming the constitutional principles of impartiality and exemption from public administration and we are taking care of the conditions of transparency and equity in the functioning of markets in the media universe. With this proposal, we are encouraging the modernisation of local and regional media bodies and the valorisation of their public, thus making institutional advertising campaigns more comprehensive and effective. This, in fact, of the draft resolution which we submitted in due course and which was approved in this Chamber, recommending to the Government the reformulation of the system of incentives to local and regional media agencies. Here we are to, once again — as in 1998 with the approval of the Statute of the Regional Press — lead the deepening of a journey, in a new time and in a more challenging context, valuing local and regional social communication, betting on solutions adjusted to the evolution of the times, promoting transparency, fairness, impartiality and exemption, contributing to greater regulation of the advertising market, to a fairer and more transparent market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u34	It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how citizenship is promoted, how politics is promoted, how democracy deepens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u35	Also for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: If there is an adjective I would not use in relation to this diploma, it is in fact the ‘clearest’ objective. But it would also be carried out in the use of the verb « clarifying», because if there is something that is not this diploma it is to be clarifier. I'll explain. I agree with the desire to bring together the various regimes in a single degree, but, let us be clear, you repeal a decree of law, revoke a door, but then they do not fully transpose the Resolution of the Council of Ministers and therefore we do not know whether what is in the Resolution is still valid or not, and this will be important soon. So, yes, let's clarify. The diploma on the transparency of the ownership of the media to which Mr State Secretary refers is ours because, on the part of the Government and the majority, nothing has yet appeared. This is clarified and we are grateful for the fact that we remember that this diploma is of the PS — I could have mentioned it immediately, but it is already clear. Let us clarify something else: there is great concern about transparency, in fact, thanks to the 2010 Portaria and Resolution, which are also two PS diplomas, where the famous digital database is created – the portal of transparency of the state's institutional advertising – but the truth is that once you have come to power, this database has been virtually disabled, it has entered into a kind of comatose state. The truth is that Mr. Secretary of State, who loves to announce things in committee, announced that it was already working. Well, yesterday I went to check and it is actually working, Mr Secretary of State — this morning I did not check, because I did not have time — but with data from 2012. Therefore, two and a half years later, since we are almost mid-2015, the government has clearly failed to control its companies, state companies, and compels them to provide the necessary data to « feed » the base. But in relation to the basis, there is also something strange, because you repeal the Portaria that created it, but they say it is still in operation, but removing the rules that define it. It is not clear why there is no express mention, except in a transitional standard, based on data! We do not know why it is necessary to be waiting for implementation by the ERC. The principles of the database should all be laid down and are not, Mr Secretary of State, so if you want to clarify this matter, I will be delighted. Continuing, the question of clarification is absolutely extraordinary, since in the explanatory statement you propose three main objectives, namely clarifying what should be considered institutional publicity of the State and extending the scope of the campaigns of the entities of the State business sector. Mr Secretary of State, these two objectives are identical to those in force, in fact, are more or less identical, because in this clarification there is even a decrease in relation to what institutional campaigns should be. For example, in such a resolution, which we do not know whether or not it will cease to apply, it is very clear what are the principles, i.e. that « (...) the acquisition of spaces for institutional advertising may take place for the pursuit of, inter alia, the following objectives: (...) ». But have the objectives of the institutional campaigns ceased to be planned or are they planned? Oh, my God! And is the Resolution worth it or not? Oh, my God! It is true that a number of rules were proposed there, namely 'to inform citizens of their constitutional and legal rights and duties' — what Mr. Secretary of State says is a novelty that brings, in a reduced version, 'to inform citizens(...) of electoral processes and referendum consultations; (...)', etc. This was in the Resolution, so one wonders whether it is still or not. And you know why this is important? Is Mr. Secretary of State just confirmed that the RTP is excluded and therefore asks: does this mean that the RTP will be prohibited from carrying out important campaigns, for example, for the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, against domestic violence? Oh, my God! Can't you do it anymore? Oh, my God! Can RTP no longer carry out campaigns, for example, to appeal to the vote, against abstention? Oh, my God! Can't you do it now? Oh, my God! Mr. Secretary of State has just said that the RTP is not included! I would like someone to give you some time to answer the questions, because in fact this is not clear. But the confusion continues and I find it absolutely extraordinary when he talks about strengthening the money. And, then, strengthening money to the regional and local press is extraordinary! The percentage remains the same, does not change, i.e. 25 %, but the distribution changes. And look at just one extraordinary thing: the regional paper press, which had 12 %, is going to be 7% — 7% of the same 25% — and the Secretary of State is able to have the deplant, I'm sorry, to tell you, to say it increases? Oh, my God! But where does it grow, Mr. Secretary of State? Oh, my God! If it was 12 % and it is 7 %, does it increase? Oh, my God! Another extraordinary thing: the regional radio, which also had 12 %, now has 6 % and the Secretary of State says 'But it increases! » Increase... This, now, will be a burden, Mr. Secretary of State! Open... Well, I must be confusing, because the diploma is very clear...! Mr Secretary of State, it is not surprising that the PSD and CDS, in 2010 when the famous database was created, made absolutely extraordinary statements to say « the diploma is insufficient »...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u37	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u38	Mr President, I would like to ask you the same indulgence you had with Mr. Secretary of State. Mrs Cecilia Meireles said that the diploma should include all publicity from the business sector of the State, including types of support, such as trade and sponsorship. Mr Secretary of State, we can always improve diplomas, we can always improve policies and, once again, I recognize the importance of agglomerating everything in a diploma. In relation to commercial values or sponsorships, it does not appear... Furthermore, the CDS was extraordinary and even said: « The party will act immediately if the portal does not answer questions that the party considers essential». The « immediate» is to accept two years of inactivity of the portal, it is the absolute priority, and it is to accept that four years later the data there are 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u39	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u40	I conclude, Mr. President. What I think is quite regrettable is that the office in which Mr State Secretary is currently becoming a kind of marketing and promotion office. Mr. Secretary of State, this diploma, of course, was announced by Mr. Secretary of State but was not discussed. And you know why? Because there was no text and therefore there was nothing to discuss. You just presented the text. Then there's another question...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u41	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u42	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. We can see that the majority and the Government are concerned about transparency on the eve of elections, when they know they will lose them — so I hope very strongly — but when concern about transparency is in power there is no such thing! No more demagogy, Mr Secretary of State, no more propaganda and for once make a decent diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u43	To defend honour, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u44	Mr President, it is only to say that the honourable Member's statement that she did not take notice of the preliminary draft of this diploma is false because it was sent to the Committee on Ethics for several months before it formally entered Parliament. Therefore, the honourable Member had the text and has known it for many months. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u45	Mr. Secretary of State, it was not a defense of honour, but in any case used the word. To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u46	Mr. Secretary of State, if there's anything I didn't want to offend was your honor, obviously. But even if I thought that there might be a problem of honor, I would never think that this part of my speech would be due. There were others I thought much worse, I'm sorry I told you, but I didn't. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u47	Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are talking today about the institutional publicity of the state and, following the last intervention, I would begin by saying that it is not because elections are approaching that the government ceases to legislate. At all times, and also in the vicinity of elections, the government promotes transparency, the government does not hide what it does, the government does not protect actions other than its interest in public knowledge. in this sense, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, we are perfectly clear, we agree that it is true. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a step in which transparency, rigour and equity are strengthened. It is a legislative moment in which it is possible that, in a diploma, very clearly, in a detailed way, which wants to be robust and enduring in the future, what is essential is protected: the information of the State, the access of citizens to State information and, very importantly, it is not worth spreading - it is also worth the sustainability of local and regional media. We also speak of this as a point of awareness update of what is the current panorama of these media. It is not only local and regional radio, it is not only newspapers, the written press, it is also made an update, which was intended for a long time ago, to new forms of dissemination of information, i.e. digital, i.e. a bet in the future and a care in the drafting of legislation that allows us to have a perspective of the future and of prevalence and to adapt this law to reality. We speak of rigour in the criteria for the award of advertising very clearly, we speak of transparency in the mechanisms of this allocation and the distribution of this type of advertising in a fair, equitable way and that finally ensures its effectiveness, the spectrum of recipients and the scope of disclosure protecting the interests of the State as a customer, which is also important here to protect. Madam Member, it may not be important for the PS, but it is important for the government and it is important for the majority. From here we clearly know, with rigor and clarity, what can or can not be considered institutional publicity of the State. It was important that he be defined. The scope is extended to the institutional advertising campaigns of the entities of the State business sector, public service dealers and public institutions, with a view to providing greater transparency for the role of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), so important in monitoring, in determining what it is or is not and what it must be, of the legal framework that becomes a prior role of supervision, of chance and that ensures this transparency and credibility of the system. In effectiveness, procedures are streamlined, allowing for more and more extensive and transparent prior and spectrum monitoring. They are more guarantees for the State in terms of effectiveness, they are more guarantees for local and regional media agencies in terms of justice, predictability and equity in distribution, they are more guarantees for the public in terms of access to information. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, there are several fronts in which this legislation acts and which protects: they are local and regional media bodies, protecting them, giving them predictability and giving them the security of their projection in the future. The relationship between the State and the community is protected very clearly and pedagogy is done. I would remind you here that it is planned, for example, to disseminate policy and public safety measures, to disseminate public health information, to develop campaigns to raise awareness of good practices and to prevent risk behaviours, to disseminate national tourism potential and to approve other national economic sectors abroad, and to attract foreign investment—and there are a number of them. We are talking about a letter of principles that protects, which launches in the future these media bodies that approach the state and citizens and which, very clearly, aim to have a social communication at different levels with transparency, yesSrs. Members of the Socialist Party, even on the eve of elections, protecting the future, giving more public and citizens access to state information,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u49	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u50	... bringing state and citizens closer. I am referring again to the key word 'transparency' ; I am referring again to the keyword'rigor' ; and I am referring again to the keywords'strengthening' and 'future' of this legislation which will last and which will protect everyone. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u51	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Regional and local social communication plays an important role in particular in areas of the interior and low population density. Their contribution to the value of the territories and to social and territorial cohesion make them important elements and support them. Regional media agencies have great importance in linking immigrant communities in the collective, cultural and democratic life of communities and in pluralism in social communication. As time went by, several processes were contributing to the reduction of revenue from regional and local media agencies. Initially, these bodies are located in territories where companies and institutions are much smaller and more fragile and thus less available to invest in advertising. The amendments involving public acts, in particular the deformalisation of acts with a view to compulsory publication, also had an effect on the revenue of local bodies. in this context, and since we discussed support for regional and local media agencies, we can not fail to remember that the important support for these bodies was the payment system. This system was eliminated by the PS, but the PSD, which challenged this extinction by assuming government functions, did nothing for its recovery ; on the contrary, for years, refused to restore the system of paid carry, so claimed by local and regional social communication, claim that the CFP never ceased to give expression here in the Assembly of the Republic. Upon completion of the support of the paid port, no effective model of support for these bodies has been found to date. In fact, there have already been other attempts to find mechanisms to place the state's institutional advertising with regional and local media agencies. However, the difficulties in controlling the procedures led to the possible contribution of these measures to the revenue of the organs as a result of bold attempts. Thus, the increasing financial difficulties of these bodies do not deviate from the concentration process in this sector with dozens of radios and periodicals to be acquired by economic groups in a clear concentration process, which has been reducing diversity and pluralism in social communication. As regards the concrete assessment of the Government's proposal under discussion, we believe that the values of support are reduced. With the application of the defined criteria, the regional and local press will have made available, in the case of minimum values, €4200 for all the country press or €3600 for all radios, which is eventually a residual value. The legislation repealed by this proposal distributes similar values and there has not been a decisive mechanism in the financing of the media. Therefore, the support now under discussion may not go away from the fire without becoming a considerable support. Another concern is with the criteria of affectation, some of which are difficult to measure, such as radio quality and periodicity or content updating. Such criteria leave a discretionary margin which is not to be admitted to these support. We believe, in fact, that we should, and so will propose in the process of specialization, make clear mention of the principles of non-discrimination between media bodies. Support for regional and local media agencies is important. The CFP has also recently reaffirmed this in the discussion of the system of incentives to these bodies. We understand, however, that the proposal we are discussing today needs to be improved and that the CFP is available to make that contribution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u53	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, when he said that Parliament was subtracted from the debate he was talking about all the legal decrees, namely the State incentive regime for social communication, the State's participation in the costs of the postal dispatch of periodical publications, the extinction of the office for the media. All of this the Government has chosen to legislate by means of legal decrees, subtracting Parliament from discussion, assessment and decision on these matters, which obviously have a relationship with what we are discussing here. For the sake of accuracy, I would like to mention this. From now on we know the text, we will be able to discuss in the specialty some aspects which have not been very clear on the part of the Government, namely: how the issue of RTP is being drafted ; how the matter is being drafted ; how the matter of RTP is concerned — and Mr. Secretary of State has not answered my question either — to refer to the need to distribute institutional advertising by several bodies without discrimination from this point of view; or whether there is discrimination on — and I believe that several parliamentary groups have also expressed concern by the Social Communication Regulatory Authority itself (ERC) — the guarantees for conditions on the part of the ERC, and above all, so that it can effectively carry out the supervision now assigned to it. I know that the Secretary of State does not have time to answer or comment on these concerns, but I believe that the debate can continue and we can respond to these concerns in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u55	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after closing the debate on item 1 of the agenda, I shall give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves, Secretary, to announce the entry of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u56	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that you have entered the Bureau draft resolution No 1386 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Definition of a set of principles to be observed in negotiations with the US Government on the Lages Base ( PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and the Greens ), which replaces all initiatives presented by parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u57	Mrs. Members, we have started item 2 on the agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 306 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the process of recognising the situation of the rustic and mixed building without known owner that it is not being used for agricultural, forestry or silvopastoric purposes and the registration of the building which is recognised as such in accordance with Article 9 ( 2 ). the Law No 62 / 2012 of 10 December, 307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the land structure and 304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 86 / 95 of 1 September adopting the basic law on agrarian development. For an intervention, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The central objective of the Government designed, drawn up, from the beginning of this mandate, was to increase national agricultural production, increase exports, reduce imports and thus move towards a value-based, medium-term self-sustainment. To this end, we have mobilized a very relevant and highly diversified set of policies that all compete for this objective. However, the proposals which the Government brings to this Parliament today fall within the same broader objective. It was identified, in all the political areas where we could work to promote an increase in national agricultural production and also forest production, clearly the area of land, the area of good and the best use of our land resources so that it can be produced more and this has been identified, from the outset, as a critical point for young farmers, often with difficulty in access to land. That is why we have been working on a number of matters since very early in the field, whose law has been approved by this House and which is already bearing its first fruit. We have worked on the ZIF diploma (forest intervention zones), we have worked on eight very specific measures of forest taxation, in which several of them have a clear impact on land structure, favouring land aggregation, particularly in the context of forest intervention areas. We lacked these legislative pieces to be able to complete a broader dossier, which is the one that touches on this matter and which also passed, for example, by the Baldies Act, another law passed by this Parliament. I must tell you that, over the course of this time, we have worked side by side with the Ministry of the Environment, which is dealing with the subject of registration and which will soon also have an outcome, in fact, which has been identified at the level of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 56/2012 and which has framed the work of working groups which have involved various ministries and, if so, the GERAR Working Group (Strategy for Rural Management and Restructuring ), which has studied all these matters and proposed legislative improvements on the various topics. Today, we bring to Parliament three concrete proposals and I will stop a little on each of them. The first has to do with the regulation of the land exchange. If you remember, because the law is this House, it was, and it is necessary, to legislate on the procedure for the insertion into the land exchange of that group of lands abandoned and without known owners. What this bill does is specify and regulate what is already in the law of the land exchange, seeking to have a clear balance between the total protection of the rights of any owner, if he comes to appear and, therefore, if he foresees the period of recognition of the land for three years, insertion into the stock exchange, during these three years, with many restrictions, only campaign leases, and then another 15 years in which there can be no definitive burdens on the land, there can only be leases on the land, and, by the end of this added period of 18 years, there can already be an alienation of that land through the land exchange. An important note is that there is concern to make it very clear that these lands, when they are identified as abandoned lands and without known owners, when it is found that this is, are automatically integrated into the land market, because the aim of the Government is indeed that they can be used by those who seek land to develop their activity. The second bill, and I must say that the order is random, has to do with the creation of an additional possibility of reversal, in addition to the two already existing in the law, for the lands still expropriated under the land reform. Under this law, we are talking about a limited set of lands that return to the possession of the State, which have no rent, which have no legal status as a third party, are totally free lands, so we seem to elementary justice to allow previous owners or their heirs to ask for the reversal of these lands. There are already cases in the law in which they could do so, particularly if they were in the possession of the land, but, not being in the possession of the land, we find it relevant to be able to give this opportunity, once again without prejudice to any legal situation as a third party, and which comes in line with the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which in 2011 considered the right to reverse is impracticable. The third note concerns the proposal on land structures. It is a matter which has been worked out very much, even to align with the registration diploma, and you can already see some links to this theme, with clear objectives of simplifying either parceling, either simple or integral, or land valuation projects, or also legislation on the issue of fractionation and division of buildings. It has a much simpler process, which recognises not only the role of municipalities as agents closest to the territory, such as the parish board. It is a law that seeks to give voice and capacity of action to all those who can be affected by parceling processes, not only owners, but also all those who hold some legal situation on the building, particularly tenants, and establishes a set of stimuli through emolumentary and tax exemptions to allow for taking forward these peering projects. In our view, this is a good time for Parliament to be able to pass legislation, since we also have the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme for 2014 - 2020 ) with specific lines of support for land-based partnership and structuring actions and we hope to be able to open in July this year. Finally, I would like to say to you that, on our part, and as always, there is a concern to present to Parliament proposals for legislation that can be improved. They know how much I like the Parliamentary institution and the respect I have for Parliament and therefore I hope that these proposals can be improved and generate as broad a consensus as possible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u59	Seven honourable Members have signed up to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, I begin by stressing the importance of the debate here today and also commending this Government for the merit it has had to provide agriculture with the necessary and essential tools to enhance its dynamism. There have already been many legislative changes at the level of the earth factor that have been made and that in our country, by its size, represents a crucial factor in agricultural and forestry production. As mentioned earlier, the law that created the land exchange, the amendment to the Baldies Act, but also another very important measure, which was tax adjustments for small farmers such as the creation of the flat-rate VAT scheme or the extension of the amount by which it is possible to accede to the simplified regime in terms of IRS or IRC. The excessive changes that this Government has made show a commitment to greater economic appreciation of the agroforestry sector. With this government, agriculture has come to have a strategic vision of sustainable growth for the country, which has not happened for many years. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, in a country where the size of the property is about half the average of the European Union, are essential instruments of fundraising so that we can counter the fractionation of the rustic buildings. It is in this context that the opportunity arises to discuss these diplomas which we have in our hands here today. With regard to the land structure diploma, I would like to ask the Minister about the following: in the case of the full-time partnership projects, it is defined that the sponsoring entity shall prepare and ensure the publication of the technical standards necessary for the preparation of the project on the website of DGADR ( Directorate-General for Agriculture and Regional Development ). My question is whether the publication of these standards should not also be extensible to other promoters, such as municipalities, and whether this publicity and dissemination of all the procedures should be common to all those who promote this initiative. On the other hand, I would also like to know what types of support are being considered in the context of the incentives to Article 53. the and, in the case of simple pairing, whether it makes sense to have these types of incentives. Finally, Mrs Minister, and in the case of the diploma relating to the recognition of the situation of rustic and mixed buildings without known owners and which is not being used for agricultural, forestry or silvopastorial purposes, is there a clear need to expedite procedures in order to make these properties available in the stock market? And, speaking of land exchange, I would like to know whether you can give us the balance sheet of what exists today in terms of land exchange in the rented area or for sale and which regions where it is most implemented. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u61	Mr Pita Amisema has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u62	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, you, by Bill No 304 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), seems to intend to reopen the process of agrarian reform,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u63	Before I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u64	...the process that was closed and that should be closed. The proposed law aims to give a total of 100 % to the former owners or heirs of the land expropriated or nationalized by a discretionary decision of the Government. This is also related to the problem of state renters or those who have other forms of exploitation of state land, that one of the paradigmatic, emblematic examples is that of the Machados Heritage in Moura, where the government has called into question the farmers there. In fact, the Machadade dos Machados should be a case of study, because, when measures were taken for that Heritage—and I know the situation well—by then Prime Minister Francisco Sá Carneiro, the PCP was, at that time, the champion against those measures and today it is in favour of, unlike the PSD and the CDS which, at the time, were in favour of those measures and today, are against...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u65	It looks like an Arab writing history on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u66	...and call into question this inheritance of the Government of Sá Carneiro. I do not know whether it is for a CDS minister, but what is true is what the Sá Carneiro government at that time tried to do is to be dismantled today, to be questioned by this government and this Minister of Agriculture! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u67	In the meantime, we have the compensation that was paid to the expropriants of the agrarian reform. And they're all paid, except for small situations we understand that they also have to be solved. Therefore, if the State paid the former owners, in the bottom, the State bought these lands, did not steal them, paid them. And if you paid them, will you now give them to whom you've already received? Are these people gonna be put together twice? What's going on? Have people received money for having nationalized their lands and now will they receive these same lands by which they have already received money? That is the question I would like you to answer. I also ask you the following: Is it the proper way the State manages its heritage? From the time these compensations were paid, the lands are state heritage, like any other State heritage. Why not its best management, particularly in its failed land exchange, which has only 28 public buildings today? And how does this really justify this reversal — and this is the essential issue — after you pay the compensation to the owners? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u68	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, with regard to this position of the Government, to pick up abandoned buildings and place them at the service of production in this case through the land exchange, I would like to ask you whether this position of the Government is to extend to the entire national production sector. If, for example, the government will take it to the shoe factory Rohde, in Santa Maria da Feira, which was abandoned and put it to produce; or if the government will intervene in the tire cabling factory, in the Póvoa de Lannoso, which has also been abandoned; or, giving the example of a concrete matter within the scope of the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Training Centre Gil Vaz, in Canha, Montijo, which has been abandoned since 2007 — and the country so much needs training in the field of agriculture! — the government will take this structure, which, I repeat, is abandoned, and will also produce it. Or is this prospect of taking on what is abandoned just on the side of the small property, on the side of the smaller ones, and what is strategic for the country, you leave it alone and you don't touch it? Then I would like to tell you, Mrs Minister, that, with regard to the legislation which applies here today, the reversal of expropriated land, on this particular matter, lied to us here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u70	What's serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u71	The Minister, who has worked so hard to expel the returnees from the Machadah and the Herdade da Fonte dos Cantaros to hand over the plots to the former owners, told the renters on 3 March that the uncontracted lands would be placed in the land exchange on 10 March, she told us, in the Assembly of the Republic, that the uncontracted lands would be placed in the land exchange and now she is presenting here a proposal for legislation in which she says that the uncontracted lands, after all, if there were any will on the part of the former owners, could revert to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u72	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u73	He therefore lied to us about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u75	On the other hand, after saying here that the lands would go to the land exchange, he had already published doors to hand over land to the old owner.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u76	It is a'made to measure'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u77	Mr. Minister, who works the land deserves respect and that is not what he has had on the part of this government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u78	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, the documents under discussion today probably deserved a longer time to be discussed, because three bills to be discussed in 5 minutes are very complicated. But at this stage of the debate, and without prejudice to further consideration, I would like to ask you two very specific questions. The Minister, in her initial speech, stressed the Government's recognition of the role of municipalities in these legislation proposals, in particular with regard to land structures. That is what I would like to ask you about, because our interpretation goes exactly the opposite way. Moreover, the municipalities, as the Minister knows, are all, especially the chambers, very suspicious that this is a poisoned present. Therefore, this question exists. I would also like Mrs.Minister to talk to me about the projects for full parceling, because, when it comes to simple parceling, the competences are all of the municipalities, but when we deal with integral parceling, the bill leaves the municipalities and makes the decision of these projects depend — read, big projects, of the government. So the question is very simple: are we going to have new PINs in agriculture? Is that what the Minister is preparing? Because it is all evidence that this is the way to these projects that come from integral parcelation, putting, in fact, part, in a way that seems very incorrect to me, the authorities in decision making. The second question concerns Bill No 304 / XII ( 4 ). ( a), already discussed here. Mr.Minister, this bill has an objective: it is addressed to the current renters of the Heritage of Machados. Let's talk straight.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u80	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u81	Yes, yes, Mrs. Minister! And what is this? Is it revenge? This is addressed to those people who work on earth. Madam Minister, I would almost like to say the following: withdraw this bill. We're in general discussion and it's still in time. Remove it, because this bill is tailored and is an attack directed at those people of the Machatian Heritage. Don't be so stubborn. Remove this proposal, Minister! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u82	To reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister for Agriculture and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. First of all, I would like to see that the largest diploma, which is that of the land structure, has raised more questions, but I am sure that in the discussion on the speciality there will be an opportunity to develop this issue. I would like to say to Mr Nuno Serra that, in the matter of full parity, everyone has to disseminate in the same way. Municipalities or DGADR, all promoters have to do through the website, communicating all the information. The support provided at the level of IMT emoluments is intended for everyone, although there is then the possibility that there will be specific things for full parcelation, given the size and impact that they may have. But, of course, they are subjects that can be seen and, eventually, improved in the specialty. With regard to the land exchange, and this question was discussed here—including, Mr Pita Amisema criticized this matter—I wanted to say something which is clear to me: we, when we rule, are not thinking for 1 or 2 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u84	It's for four months!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u85	My perspective as a ruler is to think for 1 or 2 years, but also for 5 years, for 10 years and 20 years. And the land exchange is an instrument that is already producing the first fruits and with this diploma that is proposed in Parliament, including what is already provided for in the Land Exchange Act, IMI's land tax exemption on who works the land or who puts it in the land exchange, I am sure that we can have an even greater increase. I would like to say to Mr Nuno Serra that he has asked for a point of view, and also to Mr Pita Amisexa that, at the moment, there are 14 500 ha in the stock market and that around 2850 ha has already been transferred, which is 20 % of what is available. I think they're good results for a first year of startup. And very soon we will hand over the state's first land, precisely under the land exchange regime and the bill of sale and lease, in the case of the State's lands. from the point of view of the stock market, I think we are taking solid steps and I have great optimism in relation to this instrument, even more so with the proposed law that will be adopted here. Mrs. Helena Pinto, who spoke of the full linkage, meant that there is no distance from the municipalities and there is no demand to have PIN in agriculture; on the contrary, there is concern to allow the closest agents to have this work and, even when the government is to approve, all the work up there can and must be done, in many cases by the municipalities themselves. What is permitted is that if municipalities have no interest in this — and I must say that I take the principle of subsidiarity quite seriously — then the State can do this work through DGADR. In fact, I wanted to say that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was in favour of this bill and, therefore, it does not have these concerns that the honourable Member has. Finally, with regard to agrarian reform, I should like to say that I am afraid that Mr Pita Amixa has brought this matter here. I could bring back the history of the actions that socialist governments have done, and well, in the field of agrarian reform and which contradict the thesis that you are currently wanting to defend. But I wanted to tell you that I am very proud to be a minister of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u86	You knew it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u87	... and to bring this proposal to Parliament in this quality, because it is to establish justice. Moreover, perhaps Mrs. Helena Pinto has not seen with due attention, but we are talking about free land, without renters. I must tell you that at the moment these lands correspond to 6 % of the requests for reversal that are made to the State, requests for reversal that some have legal framework in existing legislation, because there is agreement with the claimants or because the owners are in possession of the land, and others that, having not, cannot be deferred. in this case in particular, what we have is legislation for 6 % of the requests for reversion that are currently on the table and that have to do with lands that are totally unemployed and without any rent. Therefore, it is not true that this diploma is made for the renters of the Machados Heritage, it is not true that it will affect these tenants who, as you know, have a particular regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u88	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u89	...and that, in addition, it was now decided that they will continue their leases until they finish. In my view, it is the minimum that this government can do and I must also say, Mr Pita Amixa, that I have no doubt that if Sá Carneiro was ruling right now, it would be this and much more that he would do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u90	We now have another set of requests for clarification. Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u91	Mr President, Madam Minister, let me start by asking you a very concrete and very objective question. Bill No 306 / XII ( 4. ( a ) on the recognition of the situation of a rustic and mixed building without known owner, is it any new form of acquisition of property by the State? In other words, there is an amendment here to Article 1345. the Civil Code, which I will expressly quote: « Are the property without the known owner considered to be the heritage of the State »? With this diploma, is there any change to this form of acquisition of heritage by the State? This is my first question, Minister. Second question, also quite concrete: is it not the aim of the government, with this diploma, to allow small farmers, young farmers who, at the moment, want access to production, want access to land, give them access, this being one of the ways to achieve and target this claim? Third question: is there a more comprehensive, transparent and more involved form for all interested parties with the diploma of land restructuring, in particular agricultural parceling, which is necessary and useful for the national territory? Is there, for example, an involvement on the part of the parish or not, contrary to the old diploma in which the authorities were not covered? Madam Minister, to conclude, allow me a brief question, concerning a specific case, which has already come from 1971, the case of the Office of the Sine Area. Since 1971, land of several owners in this area was expropriated. Many of them were expropriated for a given objective, which was not achieved. There are about 11 000 hectares of land that the owners claim for not being used for the purpose for which they were expropriated. Mr Minister, the question that I am leaving you is this: is it possible at this moment to resolve this concrete situation of expropriation in this area? This has been a good thing for the agricultural production, because it is about land that has been expropriated to an end for which it has not been used and which is currently in a state of abandonment. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u92	To request clarification, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u93	Mr President, Minister, this government has brought to agriculture certain payments, full implementation of investments and now also legislative instruments to make the bet on agriculture increasingly structural. I was absolutely amazed at the Socialist Party's position on the issue of agrarian reform. He mentioned the Socialist Party that the Social Democratic Party has changed. Well, the Socialist Party is that it hasn't changed. And it did not change because it has done very little for agriculture, especially when it was in government. And, with regard to this paragraph which is made in this diploma of agrarian reform, the Minister says, well, that we are talking about 6 % of land that is unemployed, without any contract - and the contract applies to campaign contracts, lease contracts, finally, is a much broader contract and objectively the land is unemployed. Why can’t these lands return to their former owners? It is a problem that you, on the left, have with the past. But in this regard, Mrs Minister, I would also like to talk a little bit about what Mr Abel Baptista has said. I am from Santiago do Cacém and grew up to see the land of the Office of the Area of Sines, which were not and are not occupied by the industries of the platform of Sines, completely unoccupied, abandoned, where the state was, in fact, bad manager. Many and many hectares are completely abandoned. And the truth is that it has been a huge injustice for many of these owners not to have had the opportunity to ask for the reversal of their lands. Taking advantage of this incision that was made in this diploma of agrarian reform, it would be very interesting and would be fair (it is my opinion and also of the CDS) that we could legislate in this matter—as the State was bad manager of these territories, because the project of the Office of the Sines area was a project, of the time of Marcelo Caetano, which was not fully executed—so that these owners could ask for the reversal of these lands, because they are mismanaged by the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u94	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Rodrigues Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u95	Mr President, Minister, this legislative process involves enormous difficulties in its implementation. In the case of the diploma establishing the legal system of land structures, it is important to ask: what are the inter-municipal and municipal plans proposed by the Minister? In addition, this diploma also provides for the identification of land without ownership and abandoned land. Is the Government available to ensure technical and human resources so that these municipalities can carry out this work?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u96	They're very important!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u97	In anticipation of this decentralized action, was it not preferable for the Government to establish a guideline in this field so that a procedure could be implemented that would make the application of this diploma more efficient? In the case of full integration, and when this initiative is the municipalities, this diploma states that the member of the Government that protects rural development needs an opinion from the DGADR ( Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development ). So it is important to ask: is this opinion of DGADR going to be a binding opinion or just an opinion to bind in the said process? As you should have noticed, this diploma still raises many doubts, these doubts, in fact, also present in your own opinions issued by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. Finally, in order to understand the extent of this problem, does the government have any idea of the numbers we are talking about, for example, the area of parcels that can be valued with the implementation of this diploma? Finally, do you have any idea of the charges for the implementation of these diplomas with regard to the matrix registration and payments of IMI, among others? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u98	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister for Agriculture and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u99	Mr President, very quickly because time is short, I begin by telling Mr. Abel Baptista that there is no new form of land acquisition by the State. What is new is the obligation to place these lands, which is found to be lands of the State because they are abandoned and without known owners, immediately in the stock market, i.e. making very clear the objective of the State, which is not to appropriate land but rather to make this land available to those who want to work it, and with respect for those who seek land and do not find it, particularly young farmers, so that they can find ways here to throw themselves into agriculture or develop the activity they already have. So that's what's new. In relation to parcelation, the parish can intervene in partnership with the municipalities in simple actions. With regard to the Office of the Area of Sines, Mr. Mr. Abel Baptista and Mr. Pedro do Ó Ramos, I want to tell you that the law, as it is, does not allow any reversal, as it is known. of our part, what we know is that we have property that is in the state but is also in the municipalities of Sines and Santiago do Cacém. And I believe that, if Parliament has this openness, this will and that willingness on our part, I can only make the Government available to work together to operationalize and implement what has been decided upon in Parliament. I share the conviction that what is not used for the purposes for which it is expropriated should be as much as possible returned to people. Finally, Mr Jorge Pereira, as far as means are concerned, we have at PDR 2020 joint actions which will be launched and whose applications will be opened in July and, in relation to numbers, will depend heavily on the initiative of the municipalities themselves. So far, parcels have had little accession. What is precisely meant by this law is to ensure that, since it is simpler and more incentives, especially at the emolumentary and fiscal level, we will have an effective and effective instrument and that there will be money to support it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u100	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u101	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The government has taken three years — three years! — to present an initiative for a new system of land structuring. It has been three years since a PS diploma on this subject entered this Parliament in February 2012, waiting for the government. Of course, it is not only a matter of time but also a matter of message and political content and of the legislative process itself. If not, let us see: with the creation of the land exchange, the government has proclaimed a new agrarian reform. The results are in sight: no known tax incentives, no known measures in the 2020 RDP, it is clear that, essentially, this objective has failed. There is neither, nor is it expected, any agrarian reform. Two years after 2642 he has traded in the land exchange, 85 % are state land. I repeat: there is no agrarian reform but, yes, alienation of the state heritage, which has already reached the public forests, as the Government decided last week with the National Mata do Ribeiro do Freixo in the Town Hall of Idanha-a-Nova. There, you have our total disagreement. This is all that should not be the forest policy of a country with only 2 % of public forest and 7% of co-management buckets. After opening the door to privatization of the baldiums and the inclusion in the stock market, the government is now moving towards privatization of public forests. There, you'll have our fight. On the law of the baldiums, the PS will even advance with a request for appreciation of unconstitutionality. But the government's speech also had another approach: the attack on the abandonment of the land. In the Green Taxation, he withdrew; the Government did not tax the abandonment and throughout the legislative process the issue of abandonment is no longer explicit. It is therefore clear that this objective has also failed. Now, only now, at the end of his term of office, is the revision of the law of land structure. With a level of deresponsibility of the State that appears in the Government's proposal, we do not wish better luck. Now, there were no more than three diplomas, one more, the fourth, about the recognition of the land without known owner. Here too, we have doubts, not about the legal matter, but about the operation of the model. In all this, the government reversed the priorities: it preferred to be known as the government that created the land exchange and not as the one that promoted a profound change in the land structure regime. And with this legislative process, it has managed to create a complex legal fabric for citizens, unnecessarily. Mr Minister, on the diplomas now under consideration, whether the Government transfers to the municipalities the competences of the central administration. We believe that the State should reserve for itself the definition of a global policy of fund-building, with clear priorities and objectives. The municipalities must have a subsidiary and not central role in this process. This is where our biggest difference lies. On the other hand, in the recognition of the buildings without known owners, the authorities may in fact have a central role, particularly the bodies of parish that know much more about the land and much of the historical process of the occupation of the territory. It does not happen here, however, what happened with the sanctions regime of cleaning in the forests and that the authorities are only on the burden of what the State does not want to do. There are means and support available! In addition, this action does not replace the centrality of another instrument: the building register. And, say, here too, the government has failed. It started by attacking what the previous government had done, rejecting the possibility of moving forward with a systematic register. He then advanced with the idea of the simplified registration and the need to cross the addial, matrix and geometric register. Then, with a new Minister, the same government abandoned the idea and advanced to the progressive registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u102	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u103	We are on the final line of this government and, of course, what is left is exactly what the government has criticized — the pilot projects in seven councils, which the PS government has started — nothing more. Finally, not having its own agrarian reform, the government wants, by virtue of another process of agrarian reform, for more than three decades, to reopen the process, to withdraw the small landowners from the state and to hand over to the former owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u104	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. This is, for us, a closed process. That's right, Mrs. Minister. in this regard, the government pushed the speech, reversed the priorities and complicated what should have simplified. We can therefore be Mr. Minister before a missed opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u106	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I welcome the initiative of the Government to present to this House three structural diplomas for national agriculture, which reveal the dedication and commitment that the Government has shown from the very first moment on to this sector. Finally, agriculture is seen as a sector of excellence, innovation, technology, where ecosystems combine whose biodiversity guarantees a unique sustainability among the productive sectors of our economy. It was in this premise that the land exchange emerged in 2012. It was intended to facilitate access to land, with total and absolute respect for the right of private property, favouring the increase of national production in the agricultural, forestry and forestry sectors. It is also for this purpose that the Government now proposes, through these proposals of law, a joint approach between the various instruments of land structure. In view of the reality of our agricultural and forestry property, it is essential to make the actions of land-based structures more effective in order to enhance the dynamism already present in the sector, but still with constraints, such as the fractionation of the plots and the rustic buildings. It is therefore crucial that a legal regime deters the fractionation of rustic buildings and promotes, at the same time, new forms of use and management. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is within our reach, as political agents, to define the appropriate means and instruments to maintain the sustainable growth of the sector. That is why we are pleased to see a clarification of the rules in the proposal for a law on parity, distinguishing in greater detail the simple linkage of integration and separating the institute from land valuation. in this diploma, we can note three new approaches to the past: at the level of municipalities; in the transparency and integration of processes; and in simplification. As regards municipalities, the privileged role of local authorities in the planning and management of the territory is assumed. It's a vital change. In the context of parceling processes, it is important to underline the transparency introduced in internal procedures. There are improvements in consultation, studies, disclosure, advertising. Processes are adapted to each type of need. There is also a simplification for the owners of the rustic buildings. Of course, the separation into two regimes: the simple and the integral. We now have a different definition in the case of partnering operations being from the owners' initiative, with rules more adapted to the size of the partnering and to the respective land improvements that occur. They are therefore no longer in force the same clauses of full parceling. Finally, and also on the diploma of the land structure, we must recognize as positive the exemptions and the incentives envisaged to be emolumentary and fiscal, which will allow the burden to be borne by citizens and businesses in the context of these measures. Mrs. Members, land without known ownership and without agricultural, forestry or silvopastorial use may be administered by the State as a business manager, as established in the land exchange regime. Bill No 306 / XII ( 4. (a) today, also under discussion, which enshrines a regime for the provision, in the stock market, of buildings without known owners and without agricultural, forestry and silvopastorial use, it seems to us to be advised, provided that the right of ownership and other real or affordable lease rights are safeguarded, avoiding disputes, in particular through a process of identification and recognition, with the duration of three years, widely publicised, and during which direct management of the land does not allow the building to be definitively transmitted or paid, nor subject to lease contracts, for a period of more than one year. On the amendment to Article 44. that of Law No 86 / 95, it is intended to extend the cases likely to reverse the expropriated land within the framework of land reform when the land concerned is not being used, i.e. when there is no contract of delivery for exploitation concluded between the State and a third party, thus finding itself unoccupied. It is important to point out that the decision to reverse constitutes a discretionary power of the State, and may in any event refuse, in the public interest, to consider that the operation should not be authorised.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u108	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the international year of soils, it is even more appropriate to present these diplomas on land structures and on the planning and management of rural areas. Public policies must be able to adapt to the dynamics of the territory. I believe that these proposals are intended to offer rural communities and territories where other conditions are introduced for a better attractiveness of these territories. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u110	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government presents today three bills with implications for ownership and access to land. These are matters of complexity and therefore should not be dealt with when the government is in the process of dismissal, in addition to the fact that the Government presents projects of this importance without hearing associations or agricultural confederations, in particular the representatives of small agriculture. This is not the time to make changes to this mountain, but the government, fulfilling its ideological programme, wants to take as deep as possible the consolidation of the great interests and, as far as possible, to adjust the accounts to the achievements of April. In the proposal amending the arrangements for the conversion of expropriated areas in the framework of agrarian reform, the Government takes another step to hand over to the large agrarians the lands that were formerly, and some are still in the possession of those who work them. It happens that if not all, at least the vast majority of the expropriated owners were compensated, from which, by the will of this government, they would receive the land that is from the State and that was paid to them. First, the Government has been trying to withdraw the renters from the leased plots with various justifications and now legislation to ensure that the parcels on which no lease contracts are entered into are handed over to the former owners. The Minister's non-response confirms that she lied to the heirs of Machados and that she lied here in Parliament. Nothing new in this government: always next to the big ones, always against the smaller ones. In the legislation on the recognition of buildings without known owners, the Government intends to place in the stock market and subsequently to revert to the State buildings whose owner is unknown. Now, the best way to recognize the owner of a building is to carry out the rustic registration. All commitment must be placed in the realization of the registration. The government is thinking about the smaller buildings, the poorest lands, or the buildings of citizens who were forced to emigrate and bought in the expectation that they would return one day to our country. How many medium and large buildings are in the unknown land situation? Very likely, none. First the registration is made, the real situation is understood, and at that time we discuss the solutions needed for the problems that arise. In addition to the fact that the so-called ‘leaving of plots’ is not always easy to prove, for example, if we are faced with a forest farm. Moreover: what promotes abandonment is the lack of profitability of agro-silvo-pastorial activity, but on that the government does nothing about it. He hopes that the markets, PARCAs and others that solve the problem! This legislation will affect plots of 200 or 300 m2. What does the government expect to achieve with this? Forty years ago the right-wing said that the communists wanted to take the land to the small owners. After all, it is clear today that the small owners, the small farmers, the small winegrowers are the gentlemen. It's the right! [[PCP applause.]] You can see: this government, which wants to call into question the small property, is trying to legislate to deliver to the large land property that had already been paid to it. As far as the legislation on parity is concerned, it is, of course, a mistake. You call it a land-based structure scheme, but after all, legislation only deals with parity. But about limiting the size of the property, nothing. A serious approach to land distribution is needed in places where the excessive dimension of property has always been, and still is, a problem. But this government has only one perspective: concentration. in some cases, promoting increased concentration of property is not beneficial. But also in some cases that is not possible. Worse still: the government advances with legislation, but does not make the parcelations of its responsibility, as happens in Lower Mondego. in this proposal, we have also seen with concern the allocation of some competences to municipalities because this sprays the decision, allowing 308 different decisions on the same subject. The fact is that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities gave an unfavourable opinion to the proposal in question. Once again, with this legislative package, the Government demonstrates its essence. It takes measures that attack the small farmers, the small owners, creating the conditions for the big ones to be bigger and bigger, always at the expense of the smaller ones, always sacrificing them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u113	That is why this government and these policies must be eradicated from our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u115	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : At the end of this debate, it is important to highlight the key issues of the legislative proposals that the Government has tabled today. First, key questions are summed up by the continuation of the path of privatization of lands, to the almost forced parcelation, which will crush the small owners and cause immense problems—and the Minister knows that —, to the distance from the municipalities. And, in the case of full-time partnering projects, the Minister has just confirmed, in her speech, that municipalities do the work, but the decision is from the Government. And the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities does not follow the opinion, which we are aware of, which has reached this Assembly of the Republic, is unfavourable to its proposed law. But as far as this is concerned, we will certainly have an opportunity to listen. Finally, I would like to tell the Minister, so that there is no doubt in this debate, that we have the conviction that we need to have an intervention and do a job in order to stop the fractionation of property. We have no doubt about this, for three fundamental reasons: as is obvious, for rural development and for the development of agriculture; for environmental matters; and for the defence of the forest itself. However, Mrs Minister, we need to see how this is being done and what measures are being taken. And his measures were unfortunately contrary to what we believe should have been done. Finally, and even to finish, I cannot but go back to the question of the Machatian Heritage. It's just that the Minister is not right, and I'm going to try to explain why. The Minister said that I have not read the bill and that it is about the lands that are free. What the Minister is doing is a long-term reversal, because she knows as well as I do — even changed the legislation! — that current renters have a contract until 2018. From 2018 onwards, those lands are free and will therefore revert to their owners, who have vast agricultural land, and the Minister will prevent the heirs of the present renters from continuing to work on the land, as they have always done. Mrs. Minister, this can only be for one reason, there is no other: it is called revenge. Revenge in relation to the past and agrarian reform. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u116	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this debate. I believe that the position of the various parties is very clear, just as it is clear why they say one thing and others say another. By the way, let me tell you that it is worth reading the diplomas well, because I was able to hear, on the same subject of the diploma, a criticism of the Left Block saying that we were basically taking power over the municipalities in terms of land structure and the inverse criticism of the Socialist Party saying that we were giving more powers to the municipalities. Therefore, it is worth understanding and I hope that the debate in the specialty will serve to discuss, to deepen the subject, to certainly improve the subject, but also to draw doubts. [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] I listened very carefully to the speeches of all parliamentary groups and could not finish the debate without leaving two or three notes. The first is to tell you that I, who like Parliament so much, like to come to debate in Parliament so much, am sad when I see that Parliament does not respect itself and gives reasons for being so critical. I am only going to give two examples here: Mr. Miguel Freitas, I think the honourable Member should be more cautious when he speaks of a PS diploma because if we had copyrighted who that diploma was, where it was being worked, where he was removed from to be presented here in Parliament, under the aegis of the PS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Second note: Mr Miguel Freitas states that our diploma takes over land from the claimants to give it to the owners. The diploma is very clear — very clear even: it applies only to land without any occupation, to land free, to land without any legal link. Mrs. Helena Pinto, I also answer you because I have always used loyalty and transparency: lands that have contracts will continue with the protection of these contracts until the end. When the contracts are concluded, of course what the option of the State may be and my choice, of this government and I hope that this Parliament will allow the exercise of the right to reversal, certainly paying what is the dynamisms given. It seems to me that this is to establish justice, it is no revenge, it is only justice for those who have seen themselves expropriate and I would like, because it also has heirs, children and grandchildren, to be able to return to land. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u118	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u119	Mrs. Member, about this I have no doubt about the side where I stand...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u120	Mrs. Minister is on the side of the owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u121	...and I think things are transparent, honest and loyal, actually.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u122	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u123	I shall conclude, Madam President. I just wanted to tell you that it also generates dust and doubt when I hear honourable Members saying that the land exchange law and the land without known owners are to take land to the people, to the small owners. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a lie! What is in the law of the land exchange and what is now in the bill to identify abandoned and unknown land — I repeat, and without known owner — simply means that only with the two criteria together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u124	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u125	I repeat, these are not abandoned lands but abandoned and land without ownership, because it is only possible to place them in the stock market and make them available to so many young farmers who want access to land and do not have it. That is the only objective of the Government, which has been stated since the first hour and which I want to reiterate here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u126	Before giving the floor to the members, I would like to say to the Minister for Agriculture that Parliament, which is a rational structure and freedom, is by nature always a respectable institution. [[PCP's and BE's PPS applause.]] Mr. Miguel Freitas, who gave a signal to the Bureau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u127	Mr President, after your intervention, I just wanted to say that we are totally in agreement with what you said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u128	Let's go on, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u129	Madam President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u130	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u131	Madam President, it is only to say that we understand and we can even accompany the President in his speech that he has done, we would just like him to follow the same criteria in other situations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u132	Mr President, I always follow the same criteria. I have not always been in the conduct of this debate and only react to the things that happen when I am present in the debates. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The Minister has signalled to the Bureau that she is still seeking to intervene. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u133	Madam President, just to say that the President was not present in the whole debate, but I started, as I always start every time I come to Parliament, saying how much pleasure and respect I have to be here and discuss with the parliamentarians. I can assure you that I always defend the parliamentary institution, even because I feel that I belong to it as an elected Member. I must only say that I am sad when I hear clear lies, through simplification or political debate, and that is why I have to answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u134	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this dynamic debate is concluded and we shall proceed to the vote. I congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 187 meetings, to which Mr Cristovão Norte is added, representing 188 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Mr Raúl de Almeida will do the favor of voting 263 / XII ( 4 ). a ) :— Despite the death of the poet Herberto Hélder ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u135	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died in Cascais last Monday, a victim of heart attack, which is rightly considered one of the greatest Portuguese poets of all time and a creator of universal dimension. Born in 1930, in Funchal, Herberto Hélder de Oliveira studied Romanic Law and Philology, wandered around the world, performed numerous professional activities and knew the clandestineness. But his great work was alchemy of the word made poem, which he himself is ‘ an object laden with magnificent, terrible powers ’ that ‘ promotes disorder and an order that place the world at an extreme point. Where ‘ the world ends and begins. ’ Major poet, visionary and powerful poet, by many considered at the level of Camões and Pessoa, Herberto Hélder leaves us one of the greatest works ever written in Portuguese. Among its title of premiere, in 1958, Love in Visit, and The Masterless Death, the last and pre-monitoring book released last year, shines a constellation of radio works that constitute a true source of wisdom and a precious heritage, where all — present and coming generations – will continue to be challenged to decipher the unexplainable and magical and to discover the enigma of the world and the mystery of life. This week, the creator left that (...) had passion for general things, water, music, for the talent of some words to move in chaos, by the body save from its precepts to glory, passion for passion (...)’, as well as described in the Faca Do Not Cut the Fire. This week, he left us the man who refused prizes and interviews, who hated the mechanisms of mediating, who was a metallurgical worker, beer worker, vegetable cutter and sailor. But the poet remains, as can be read in one of his poems, ‘ this sleeps forever in his work. ’ at this moment when the cycle of life leaves its inexorable mark, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret at the death of poet Herberto Hélder and curvature - before its remarkable humanist heritage of workers dedicated to the poem word, presenting to the grieving family felt condolences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u136	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to vote No 261 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Protest against the judgment of Angolan journalist Rafael Marques ( BE ). Mr Pedro Alves has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u137	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The book Diamantes de Sangue — Corruption and Torture in Angola, by Angolan journalist Rafael Marques de Morais, results from an investigation initiated in 2004 on violations of human rights, torture and killing of diamond mining workers in the region of the Lundas, especially in the municipalities of Cuango and Xá-Muteba. In retaliation to the allegations made in the book, the generals and mining companies targeted at the journalistic investigation moved in November 2012 in Portugal a judicial action against Rafael Marques and his editor Bárbara Bulhosa for ‘ slander and injury. ’ In February 2013, the process is filed. a note by the District Attorney General of Lisbon, released to the press, is given that the Public Prosecutor's Office understands that the publication of the Book Blood Diamonds falls within the legitimate exercise of a fundamental right, the freedom of information and expression, constitutionally protected, which, in particular, overlaps with other rights. I returned just one year, in August 2014, seven Angolan generals—among them, the Minister of State and Head of the Security House of the Angolan Republic, Hélder Vieira Days 'Kopelipa'— and the Quango Mining Society are moving a new process against Rafael Marques, this time in Angola. The journalist is accused of ‘calumnious complaint’, requiring him 900 000 euros of compensation. During the course of the proceedings, he is called to make statements without a warrant, he was not entitled to the presence of a lawyer during the interrogation and had no early access to the content of the accusation, which violates the most basic international principles that characterize a fair legal process and the Angolan law itself. Rafael Marques has often been persecuted by Angolan government officials, as various international organizations such as Amnesty International report. The trial currently facing is only the result of the legitimate exercise of the right of freedom of expression, recognized and guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, even by the Constitution of Angola in its articles 40. o is 44. the, as well as other legal instruments of which Angola is a signatory, such as the African Charter of Human and Peoples' Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: Reaffirms its commitment to defending the freedom of expression and the rights of journalists in all countries and its opposition to their condemnation on grounds of offences of opinion; Expresses its solidarity with Rafael Marques for the courage shown in defending freedom of expression in Angola ; Condemns the persecution that Rafael Marques continues to be a victim in Angola and calls on Angolan judicial authorities and bodies to ensure that the trial is annulled. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes, votes in favour of BE and PS Deputies António Cardoso, Bravo Nico, Carlos Enes, Eduardo Cabrito and Isabel Santos and the abstention of PS Member Nuno Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u139	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u140	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u141	Madam President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u142	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u143	Madam President, it is also to announce, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u144	It's also registered. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u145	Madam President, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I would also like to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u146	It is also registered. We shall proceed with the vote and I call on Mrs Luísa Salgueiro to read out vote No 262 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Demolition of inhumane demolition in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, Amadora ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u147	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: Whereas: Demolition represents a violation of human rights, leaving whole families homeless, exposing children and elderly persons to deprivation of housing; There is a suggestion from the former Ombudsman that the Town Hall of Amadora should not continue with the demolition and evictions in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, which we quote: ‘ Despite the lack of health and safety conditions of buildings and barracks, this intervention should be priority only if the municipality, the State and, where appropriate, other institutions are in a position to reallocate all family aggregates that do not have their own housing or take over. The survey for the purpose of the Special Realisation Programme ( PER) dates back to 1993 and, although revised later, it can no longer serve as a safe criterion to differentiate residents. The Ombudsman argues that a sudden demolition of buildings and dams in a particularly difficult situation for each family should be taken into account by the municipal authorities. It is not a question of making an opportunity judgment on the merit of administrative activity, going further than legal supervision, because in certain situations there are imperatives of justice which point solely to the choice to be made’; Despite this suggestion by the Ombudsman, the Amador City Chamber insists on the demolition of housing in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, as it has been seen this week since Monday, but also during this winter; Demolising without prior information and apparently random the dwellings of this neighborhood without giving notice to the inhabitants, at the time of the execution of the demolition, of the title that legitimizes this act, the Municipal Chamber does not comply with the principles of a rule of law. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decides: Condemn the demolitions in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena and appeal for its immediate suspension. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u148	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We will now vote on the draft resolution No 29 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the management of BES and the Espírito Santo Group, to the process leading to the implementation of the resolution measure and its consequences, in particular with regard to developments and options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank ( Chairman of RA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 411 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the material and human conditions for the effective fulfilment of the role of protective committees for children and young people ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u149	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u150	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u151	Madam President, just to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u152	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1377 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures promoting the good and effective performance of the Child and Youth Protection Committees ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The following is draft resolution No 1371 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening health care at Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital, Guimarães ( PCP ), for which the PSD requires a separate vote on point 2. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on point 2 and then vote on the remaining points together. We shall vote on point 2 of draft resolution 1371 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting together on the remaining points of the same draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1385 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the continuation of the gynecology/obstetrics service at the Hospital de Guimarães and the repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1386 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Definition of a set of principles to be observed in negotiations with the US Government on the Lages Base ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and the Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1029 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of the IC35 ( Penafiel - Entre-Rios ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1031 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN326 between Arouca and access to IP1 / A1 in Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1032 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( BE ), [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1011 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of supplementary route No 35 ( IC35 ), launch Penafiel — Entre-os-Rios, and variant Arouca, Santa Maria da Feira ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u153	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u154	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u155	Madam President, it is to be announced that I will present a statement of vote on the vote on this legislative initiative, on the PS, and on another, previously voted on by BE, also on the IC35.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u156	All right, Mrs. Deputy, it's registered. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1369 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u157	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u158	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u159	Madam President, to announce that with regard to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 1029 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), 1011 / XII ( 3. ( a ), 1369 / XII ( 4. ( a ), I and the PSD Members elected by the electoral circle of Porto will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u160	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1370 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Conclusion of the variant to EN222 ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1376 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with the construction of the IC35 between Penafiel and Entre-Rios ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u161	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u162	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u163	Madam President, just to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1378 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the completion of the construction of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1380 / XII ( 4. a ) — Valuation of the industrial zone located on the road axis constituted by the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca through their connection to the A32 and A1 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1381 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Valuation of the industrial area of the lavagueiras, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, through its connection to A32 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1094 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete measures to ensure the operationality of medical emergency means ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1307 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1375 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Recommends the immediate admission of professionals indispensable to the proper functioning of INEM ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1382 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ) and the recruitment of the necessary professionals ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We will now vote in general on Bill No. 792 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September ( Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ), strengthening the democratic management of institutions ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u165	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u166	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u167	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u168	All right, Mrs. Deputy, it's registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 828 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The general vote on Bill No 831 / XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u169	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u170	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u171	Madam President, in order to announce that, with regard to the vote on the last three draft laws, I will present a declaration of vote on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u172	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting in general on the proposal for a law No 289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of State institutional advertising campaigns and the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 12. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 306 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the process of recognising the situation of the rustic and mixed building without known owner that it is not being used for agricultural, forestry or silvopastoric purposes and the registration of the building which is recognised as such in accordance with Article 9 ( 2 ). the Law No 62 / 2012, of 10 December. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 307 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the land structure. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma also falls to 7. the Commission. Next, we will generally vote on Bill No 157 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the Legal Regime of Funding Structure ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. Let us now vote on Bill No 304 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 86 / 95 of 1 September adopting the basic law on agrarian development. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The proposal is down to 7. the Commission. We continue to vote on motion for a resolution No 99 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Mexican States on the reduction of demand and the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, signed in Mexico City on 16 October 2013. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 106 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Equatorial Guinea signed in Lisbon on 15 May 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1257 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The maintenance of the Fund's Hospital under public management ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( an integral part of the CHCB) in the National Health Service ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1309 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Fund's Hospital ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u173	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u174	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u175	Madam President, it is to announce that, in relation to the last three draft resolutions voted, either I or Mr Carlos São Martinho, we will present explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u176	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Monica Ferro asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u177	Mr President, in order to submit an oral request requesting the postponement, for the period of one week, of the votes in the speciality and overall end of the final texts submitted by the National Defence Commission, respectively, to the proposals of lein. 269 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Programming Act and 270 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Programming Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-27.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore vote on the request made by Mrs Mónica Ferro. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] Once the application has been approved, the votes in the speciality and overall finality of the final texts relating to the proposals of lein.o 269 / XII ( 4 ) shall be adversely affected. ( a ) and 270 / XII ( 4. ( a). The next plenary meeting will be held on 2 April, and the agenda consists of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 59 minutes.]]
