ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I would like to congratulate you. Members of the Government here present and I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: interpellation No 20 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Distribution of public transport supply ( BE ) ; projects of lein.os 765 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposing the transparency of the holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 766 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 767 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the scheme of incompatibility and impediments applicable to local electors and extends its scope to holders of inter-municipal bodies and specific purpose associations ( BE ), which fall to 11. the Commission, and 768 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute of Members by making it compulsory for Members to be exclusive to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1246 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the opening of the classification procedure of the current « Grand Vasco Museum » for « Grand Vasco National Museum » ( PS ), which goes down to 8. Commission, 1247 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent investment in the Cascais Line ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1248 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Against privatization of the public inland waterway transport service in the Tejo ( Transtejo e Soflusa ) ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u3	Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, I inform you that, in the diplomatic gallery, the President of the Luxembourg Parliament is present, accompanied by a delegation, whom we welcome. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some previous requests for an appeal to the Bureau, so I now give the floor to Mr João Oliveira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u4	Madam President, my appeal to the Bureau is about the conduct of the work. We will begin the discussion of a current debate required by the PSD on the Single Environmental Licensing ( LUA), which will have been approved by the Council of Ministers last week. As the decree has not yet been published, we do not know more than the four paragraphs which are included in the statement of last week's Council of Ministers, so we would like to know whether it is the intention of the Government to distribute to parliamentary boards the text of the decree of law or whether we are supposed to do this debate without knowing what the Government approved last week and which comes to discuss today in the Assembly of the Republic. Interpellation is in this sense. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u5	With the likelihood that we may have an identical interpellation and before giving the floor to the Government, because it might be better to do so, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares for an interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u6	Madam President, the appeal is to the government, but especially to the President, because he may have some knowledge that we do not have. There is a notorious inequality of weapons in this debate. The Government has already passed a diploma in the Council of Ministers, the PSD has marked this current debate and, therefore, we will be discussing with a difference on the information given to the majority and that the government itself has and has the opposition parties. Because we are in clear inequality, I would like you to speak on it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u7	I also have a request for an appeal from Mr. Pedro Farmhouse's Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u8	Madam President, of course, my appeal goes the same way. In fact, it is a bit absurd for this House to be trying to discuss something that the government has adopted just a week ago and that the text of the initiative is not yet publicly known. We just know we're talking about the moon. Perhaps, what the government really wants to talk about is the moon, because we do not know where the text is, where the proposal is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u9	Proposal? What proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u10	Therefore, Madam President, our plea is to say that this is not a proper way to conduct the vote on this House in democratic terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u11	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u12	Madam President, my appeal is for the same purpose. Mr President, these petitions are based on suspicions, they are television 'numbers', but I must inform myself of the following: a current debate is the same: a current debate. Now, a current debate must, of course, be present, why what the CDS knows is what was approved in the Council of Ministers today eight days ago, i.e., it knows the four paragraphs. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] He wants to know more than the four paragraphs, which is why the Minister for the Environment is here. by the sights, the PS, the PCP and the Left Block benches, on this matter, they don't want to know anything, it's irrelevant to them, it's indifferent to them, they don't want to know. Well, all right, we want to know... [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] ...and I wanted to talk, but by the way, I can't, Madam President, and that's why I'm done...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u13	You may, Mr. Deputies, and I'll cut that time off. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u14	Madam President, I don't need any more time. It is clear that this is a television number. The current debate requires that there be an issue a parliamentary group wants to discuss. It could not even have a diploma on the basis of it; by chance you know four paragraphs, you know more than the law requires and still complain. It is 'number' by 'number'! Anyway, it's the usual. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u15	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u16	Mr President, of course, this is a topic of the present day and we do not need to bring the diploma here, but we are alert to the opposition benches to the fact that not only did the Minister make the statement in the Council of Ministers but also had been in the briefing of the Council of Ministers and then issued an even more extensive communiqué. So, the gentlemen. Members have enough information, but if they do not, we will have the debate, regardless of whether they have the correct information or whether they have more or less information. You have to come to the debate with the Minister and you will have all the information, which you have already had.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u17	Four paragraphs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u18	The diplomas exist, but they do not have to follow the subject. Obviously, in this case, they have enough information by the communiqués and they have the theme. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to come to the debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau has been asked to speak, I would like to say to the Members. Members: This current debate results from a legislative requirement of the PSD and meets all the conditions of Article 72. the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, by nature, a current debate is not addressed, or at least in this case, to the adoption of a diploma requiring a procedural instrumentary of which the banks must necessarily be equipped. Therefore, under Article 72. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, I will initiate the current debate on the theme Single Environmental License required by the PSD. To open the debate by the PSD, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This government has a very strong reformist brand and this reformist capacity has a great deal of emphasis on the environment. Today we discuss in this House, at the initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the Single Environmental Licensing, which aims at simplifying the procedures of environmental licensing schemes, enabling economic growth to be combined with responsible environmental behaviours, in a logic of dynamizing the national economy and promoting investment. in this context, it is important to frame the approach that this majority and this government have had and remember that in the Big Plan Options for 2015 it is already anticipated that, and I quote, « In 2015, will take relevance to the development of a new module of the Integrated Environmental Licensing System. This module will support the single licensing for all environmental legal regimes, harmonizing concepts, instructional elements and procedures, which will correspond to a single environmental title." So what we are discussing here today is the realization of this government's commitment to the current year. It is important to point out that the Council of Ministers last week, in addition to the approval of the Single Environmental Licensing Scheme ( LUA ), has also approved the amendment of the Responsible Industry System ( SIR ), with the aim of simplifying, speeding up and reducing costs for companies, ensuring electronic processing of procedures and issuing digital securities relating to the installation and operation of industrial establishments and responsible business areas ( ZER ), adding the procedures inherent in the exercise of industrial activity as a result of establishments that lack or lack prior visas and replacing the current variable value rate and adding sectoral specific rates to an effective single rate and fixed value per procedure. Returning to the new Single Environmental Licensing Scheme, it incorporates several licensing schemes in the field of the environment, such as the Legal Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme (RJAIA ), the Serious Accident Prevention Scheme involving Hazardous Substances ( RPAG ), the Industrial Emissions Scheme ( REI ), the Green Resource Licensing Licensing Scheme ( TURH ) and the CIRVER Legal Scheme ( integrated centres for recovery, recovery and disposal of hazardous waste ). And it could continue with the example of other regimes that, together with different electronic procedures and platforms, contribute to a large extent to a current reality in which environmental licensing is often associated with two words: bureaucracy and morbidity. It is precisely this new regime which aims to reduce legal dispersal and minimize the costs related to the timeliness of procedures associated with multiplicity of licences, eliminating duplication and bringing transparency and effectiveness to the procedures currently under discussion. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that the proposal is a response to many constraints identified for obtaining environmental licensing, allowing me to highlight some strengths of this new regime: First. applicants can deliver all the instructional elements at once and via the Internet, operating from the electronic platform Integrated Environmental Licensing System ( SILIAmb ), to which all intervening bodies have access, and serving these elements for all procedures, including applications made later, where they are valid, in a resource economy logic; Second, the Single Environmental Title (TUA) is the only act that brings together the various legal regimes provided for, and their procedures, to obtain environmental licensing; Third, safeguard environmental values by making the licensing process simpler, more transparent and less costly; Fourth, time savings in licensing, insofar as all environmental procedures run at the same time and on the basis of a single request, with a defined maximum period, which corresponds to the longer term of the various applicable, which contributes to greater competitiveness of companies, promoting growth and employment; Fifth, the creation of the figure of the procedure manager which ensures coordination with the coordinating entity, the environmental licensing entity and other intervening entities, as well as providing the information that is requested; Sixth, strengthening successive control mechanisms and relieving prior control mechanisms, thereby empowering entrepreneurs and other relevant entities; Seventh, integration of other schemes such as the System of Responsible Industry, the Scheme for the Exercise of Agricultural Activities, the Regulations for Licences for Electrical Facilities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this new regime, the Government promotes the integration, harmonization and simplification of procedures and procedures, which allow for greater collaboration between the various bodies and services of the Public Administration, clarify the link between the various applicable regimes and contribute to the provision of necessary information more effectively. On the other hand, the creation of the single environmental rate, the value of which is significantly reduced by comparison to the rates applicable to existing environmental regimes, individually considered. Finally, it should be noted that this new scheme guarantees and safeguards environmental protection, clarifying the inspection and monitoring activity, by strengthening the environmental authorities' competences, and translates into an added value for businesses, with savings in time and resources. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just started: this is a reformist government, the most reformist we have had in our democratic history. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u21	He can read the statement of the Council of Ministers. He can read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to intervene by the Government in the opening of the debate, the Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the circumstances of the Assembly of the Republic on behalf of the Government for having decided to schedule an up-to-date debate on a topic so relevant at the same time to ensure environmental protection and the reduction of context costs. I believe that, if we all agree on the circumstance of being wrong, of being even anachronic, confusing environmental protection with context costs — this is a vision that is no longer in line with today’s day — when it is known that the green economy protects the environment, generates economy and generates jobs, it is no less true that we have much to do at the level of the State’s organization to improve the efficiency, transparency and proximity between the state and the citizens. This was precisely why we understood the importance of reforming the environmental licensing system and moving forward to this LUA, the Single Environmental License. This scheme can consolidate all operations in a process, in a title, in an interlocutor and in a fee and thus put an end to the dispersion and fragmentation that harms competitiveness and environmental protection itself, insofar as dispersion and fragmentation do not guarantee sufficient levels of convergence and integration. Thus, without prejudice to environmental rules and guarantees, this new system of the Single Environmental Licensing empowers citizens and businesses to simpler, less expensive, more transparent and faster licensing processes. in this sense, we are faced with a real reform of the state, we are faced with an option that, by removing prejudices and manichis visions, manages to reconcile sustainability, competitiveness and citizenship. And you can do so, first of all, because you ensure that you are licensed through a single process. The applicant no longer needs to deliver a long list of processes and, in a single process, it is possible to ensure all necessary information, in a dematerialized way, using a single platform, SILIAmb, ensuring a more integrated approach around a single process, no longer requiring the duplication of information in more than a dozen environmental regimes. Secondly, as mentioned above, there is a single platform, the electronic platform, but also a procedural manager, an entity that can monitor all projects by companies and citizens. Thirdly, there is a Single Environmental Title which has the same nature as a permanent certainty. It is a title where they are being registered, where all licences and authorisations are being granted, allowing to identify the history of all operations and, therefore, to carry forward this exercise of transparency and consistency, since this Unique Environmental Title will be continuously updated. Fourthly, there is a single environmental rate which will have a value of less than 20 % to the sum of all the rates related to that ten environmental regimes. On the other hand, this Single Environmental Licensing is at work and therefore integrates and articulates with the Responsible Industry System, the SIR, which has also recently been the target of review, but also with the livestock activity regime and with the electrical installations. Finally, since there is no reduction in environmental deadlines for the evaluation of projects, it is only possible to save time for companies and citizens, because we are moving in parallel, simultaneously, with several operations, not sequentially. Therefore, we were able to ensure environmental protection with a reduction of costs. But, Madam President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress the circumstances of this reform, of the Single Environmental License, which is now identified as a good international practice, to be integrated into a broader context of State reform, in the area of the environment, spatial planning and energy, such as: reform of the spatial planning, with the concentration in the PDM of all regimes, of all plans and programmes dispersed by various sectoral plans and programmes; the circumstance of terms of validity of the 10-year batches; we ensured an involvement of citizens in decision-making conferences, in the legal regime of urbanization and building; the exceptional regime of urban rehabilitation, which eliminates a series of rules that made urban rehabilitation too costly or even inviable from the technical point of view; the iGEO(Geographical Information) which, on a single electronic platform, gives access to information on mapping, conservation of nature, geodesia and geology, eliminating, and creating more accurate conditions of operation and access to information; We are facing a situation in LUA, where this state reform effort is taking place further. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u24	To ask questions, six Mrs. Members of different parliamentary groups — Left bloc, PCP, PS, CDS-PP, The Greens and CCP, but Mr Minister has hardly time to answer unless he benefits from the time-giving by some parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] The Bureau was informed that Mr Pedro Farmhouse of the PS has transformed his question into intervention and the Members. Members of the other parliamentary groups, with the exception of the CFP, have nevertheless indicated that they will do the same. Thus, to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u25	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy Management, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos announced the reform in more detail, as he read the statement of the Council of Ministers there, in the rostrum, he has already limited himself to making some general considerations of propaganda, exactly to the extent that his predecessor, the Minister for Assumption Cristos, had announced in 2013 a very similar regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u27	...which also brought together all the diplomas in one, which also had a single license, finally, which presented exactly those which are the virtues that Mr. Minister now presents here. Is it the public recognition of the previous failure? Is that an amendment? It was important to know to what extent, indeed, this amendment is translated and, most importantly, Mr Minister, it is to understand that these amendments, announced with great pump and circumstance, in fact, as if they were a major current factor in justifying this debate, following a statement from the Council of Ministers, were translated into concrete. For example, as regards pollution control and control measures, or pollutant emissions in industrial units, where they have been translated into concrete measures to impose more stringent measures in the control and control of indoor air, so that no problems such as those found in Portugal have been repeated for a long time, particularly with an outbreak of legionella, to realize and ensure the removal of asbestos from public buildings, to ensure control in the handling and transport of potentially dangerous materials, even if they are not waste or, being waste, to avoid cases such as, for example, the one we have now been checking and for which we have all been alert, which is what happens with the handling of petcoke in the port of Aveiro. Mr Minister, what has specifically resolved each of these diplomas also with regard to the conservation of nature and the interaction of industry and economic development with nature, in particular with regard to reserves, natural parks and environmental values.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u28	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u29	While they come to make these announcements, indeed, the environment in Portugal continues to deteriorate and deny its thesis that capitalism and nature are compatible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u30	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u31	Madam President, I do not know whether, if I have so little time, it will not be preferable to answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u32	Mr. Minister, you're absolutely right. Mr Duarte Pacheco has just reminded me, well, that there is another request for clarification from which the CFP does not lack time, and the CFP has time to increase the autonomous value of requests for clarification, even if there is no time for reply. Thus, to ask for clarification, Mr Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u33	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, Land Planning and Energy, the unknown proposal we are discussing today will, according to the statement by the Council of Ministers, frame the Scheme for the Exercise of Agricultural Activities, also known as REAP. In this regard, it was important that the Government should clarify whether the problems of this regime would be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u35	This licensing process obliges livestock producers to make major changes in their holdings to comply with environmental and animal welfare rules. The changes required in livestock holdings have high costs and a lot of bureaucracy and producers, especially small and medium-sized ones, do not have financial conditions to support them. A good example of this difficulty exists in dairy farms, suffocated by low prices paid for production and the high costs of production factors. Despite the different framework gates, we still do not know the number of farms involved and the type of problems and there is still no support for the transformation of farms. When will there be support to fit the farms, Minister? And will the government simplify the procedures, taking into account the reality of our farmers? It will also be necessary to explain how the Government intends to guarantee the rights of farms for many years, while absorbed by urban areas. Speaking in livestock farms, I take advantage of asking the Ministry's position in the face of the problem of the wolf attacks that have occurred in the mountains of Grateira and Montemuro. The Ministries of Agriculture and the Environment pass the ‘ball’ between themselves, without responding to the serious damage caused by the wolves, which led to the scandal of a producer of Cinfanes having been forced to transfer a 200 arouchese vacancy to the Alentejo. The ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et das Foresta) does not identify, monitor and control the populations of wolves and alcateas. The lack of human resources and means to carry out the tasks will not be a problem. In addition, the ICNF demands that producers manifestly unacceptable, absurd and even prohibited in areas of the Natura 2000 Network, such as the imposition of closure of agricultural parcels with buried net up to 50 cm.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u36	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u37	The compensation is not paid in time and producers cannot promptly restore their assets, risking losing the allowances they are entitled to, because the legislation only allows them to empty for 15 days. In addition to the fact that the ICNF does not pay dead animals in unwalled areas, in buckets or when it considers that producers do not have enough dogs. I shall finish, Madam President, by asking the Minister what solutions the Ministry of the Environment has for these problems with economic implications. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u38	Mrs. Members, as it was obvious, Mr Minister lost the time corresponding to the procedural time needed to resume the requests for clarification from the CFP, but he had two seconds, so I will give him the floor to answer, asking him to be brief. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not need to know the diploma in order to be able to hold a debate that was less distant from the subject, as they did.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u40	Tell him why you know him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u41	I believe that environmental licensing is important enough and decisive for reducing context costs so that we can have a deep debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u42	There's no diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u43	I checked the difficulty you had in talking about the subject. They have identified a list of others that I will like, at the regiment hearing on Tuesday, to be able to debate. Here we are on Tuesday! I can even provide a few more questions to ask myself on that day. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u44	Mrs. Members, as it was clear, some requests for clarification have gone through. I'm going to indicate the ladies. Members who signed up: Luís Fazenda, of the Left Block, Pedro Farmhouse, of the PS, José Lino Ramos, of the CDS-PP, and Heloísa Apollonia, of The Greens. Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say a few words about the context of this debate. The Government already has a decree on this matter, Parliament has not been summoned for any material law, Parliament still has the opportunity to present a parliamentary assessment. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, in terms of legislative functioning, this debate is abstract: it has no content, from the point of view of Parliament's legislative responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u47	...and, by the will of the Left Block, we would let the majority speak alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u48	We got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u49	The question here is another. On the other hand, with due respect, the poverty of the initial intervention by Mr Pedro do PSD of the Ó Ramos : it has only read almost in full seven points of a statement from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u50	We accompany the reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u51	Mr Environment Minister, the PSD Member did not have any epiphany on what would be the simplification of environmental licensing; he read a statement from the Council of Ministers. And, therefore, this shows everything about the context, which is to use Parliament — use it in the worst way! — to hold a press conference of the majority and the Government. It is not to make any serious debate! [[Congratulations from BE.]] I repeat, it is not to make any serious debate! [[PSD protests.]] On this issue, I believe that there is no one in this House who does not advocate a harmonisation between the administrative simplification of environmental licensing and guarantees of citizenship on the control of procedures. There's no one who doesn't defend that! In fact, the only thing that would be of interest was knowing the decree to know how the government has matched these two requirements, so often contradictory. No one here is in a position to conduct an examination, an examination, a quality check, which was the legislative procedure of the Government. If he were to say this: « Well, we are going to open a debate in Parliament which will lead later to simplified legislation on environmental licensing», it was a circumstance. That's not it. The government has already legislated! The opposition is that you don't know what the government has legislated! Mr President, you can get here and say, above all, something that the diploma contains, but we do not know exactly how these requirements are compatible. And then, with a certain intellectual superiority, he still tells us: «It is not necessary to know the diploma in order to be able to talk about it». Well, but we are not included in democracy, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u53	We are representatives of the people, elected to the people! We want to discuss what the government has in hand, we don't want to discuss anything else. And so this is a failed debate, because it was an attempt to advertise the majority and it never passed away. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] Finally, we will have the conditions for debate in Parliament, through Parliament, or questions to the Minister, but that is when we get to know the legislation. Mr Minister, our concern is not only latent, it is obvious! Because of administrative simplification, simplification of procedures, we will all be in favour. What about the guarantees? We want to know about the guarantees rather than any mechanism that opens the way to permissiveness about everything that may be changing environmental conditions and the ecosystem. However, in fact, we always have that doubt, because in relation to LUA, let's see, Mr. Minister of the Environment, if there's also no dark side here...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u55	Let's see! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u56	The next intervention is the PS. Mr. Pedro Farmhouse has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is with regret, but not with surprise, that we once again find that the Assembly of the Republic, by the hands of the majority, has become a stage where the government makes its political 'numbers'. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u58	What we have today in this House is only a political 'number'! If today's debate was a serious debate, and unfortunately it is far from being. — it would have been scheduled on the basis of a diploma, whatever its form, and not on the basis of a non-existence, so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Still, being scheduled with the legitimacy conferred on it by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, let us do the will of the majority and appreciate the absence that the Government has recently produced. But, being non-existent, there will be very little to say, since, concretely, very little is known. In fact, we have been very pleased to hear here the reading of the Council of Ministers communiqué as an explanation of this debate. I am going further: only what was produced by the Portuguese news agency is known. gov.pt. ’ The Government Portal thus tells us that the Council of Ministers has approved the Single Environmental Licensing Scheme which will incorporate, in a single title, various licensing schemes in the field of the environment. More tells us the same Portal that the new regime will contribute to reducing legal dispersion and minimizing costs related to the slowness of procedures associated with multiplicity of licenses. This is the scenario. But let us see with what background: firstly, one Ministry in disaggregation, which has been reduced in its human resources and lost in its capacity for intervention; secondly, one Ministry which in just over three years has lost 14 % of its effectiveness; secondly, one Ministry that has already been two and only half; secondly, one Ministry which, three years back, still lives a phase of intense experimentalism, now with the organic laws of the general inspection of bicephalal protection, which, after being merged, may have been once again subject to decision; one Ministry which has already been present throughout the national territory and which now has been centralised much of its functions, from the outset, in the mega-agency of the environment, in a model which someone, of vacations in the United States, thought it was interesting to apply in Portugal; one Ministry that governs its intervention on the basis of a law of ultra-liberal bases — rejected by all parties of the opposition — which has thus placed the building built, until the date, to which one of public policies of environment, giving a land, a land-based respect. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To speak of the congregation of various legal regimes and their procedures for obtaining environmental licensing and a Single Environmental Title is, in this framework, a worrying matter. Speaking of the TUA (Single Environmental Title), coming from the moon, pardon, from the LUA (Single Environmental License), in a context of state reform, is very worrying. And it is not enough to end extensive designation mechanisms such as the Integrated System of Electronic Waste Registry ( SIRER ), the Integrated Registration System of the Portuguese Environment Agency ( SIRAPA) or the Integrated Environmental Licensing System ( SILIAMB ), which replaced it, and create child books outcronyms. We're dealing with serious, very serious, too serious, Minister! We are talking about how the Administration can avoid, through responsible licensing and careful supervision, situations such as those we have lived in the recent past, such as legionella outbreak. We refer to the guarantee of an environment in which public health is assumed as a fundamental pillar. We refer to the safeguard of environmental values, which, on the pretext of some morbidity and excessive bureaucracy and to ensure that the economy is not in the face of obstacles, are openly preserved. We therefore find it strange what we are told: that the investor obtains all the required environmental licences, within a maximum time window; that the scheme contributes to greater competitiveness of companies; that the scheme allows for strengthening and relieving the mechanisms for prior control. And we still miss what is not said. Mr President — and I shall finish — even though there is no such thing as this, there are many doubts about the new regime. A regime, indeed, coupled with the irrelevance of the Green Growth Commitment and inserted into a green economy logic that passes through the licensing economy and not through a more economic licensing; a regime that sees the light of day by the hands of a government of many promises and illusions and transforms this plenary into a conference room with the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u59	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mr. José Lino Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u60	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries : A case, a title, a fee and one time limit. Mr Minister, this is bad news for the opposition, but it is good news for investors, for the economy, for the environment, for the Portuguese and for Portugal. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u61	But do you know the diploma? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u62	How do you know, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u63	And, if it is true that in time, it is money, it is also known that one of the obstacles to investment in Portugal is, exactly, tied to the time spent in excess of bureaucracy, administrative laziness, as well as with a web of laws, procedures, bodies, entities necessary for licensing for investment of a company or a good idea. We live in an increasingly global world, in which the competition of each sector exceeds the borders, so the Portuguese economy and Portuguese companies must be equipped with the same tools as their competitors to more directly do not miss the train of competitiveness. It is in this context that the Government's decision to carry out this reform and approve the new system of the Single Environmental License, which corresponds, as I said, to a single process, a single title and a single rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u64	Who told you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u65	It corresponds to a single process, where a large set of diplomas is concentrated, procedures in the field of the environment; a single process which is dematerialized and simplified administratively, but with the same requirement and legal and environmental security; a single process, where only one request is made, electronically treated, through the SILIAMB platform, where the applicant concentrates, at once, all the requirements necessary for the necessary procedure and with the expected deadlines that run in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u66	How do you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u67	Only those who have never invested in Portugal, only those who have never had an idea to invest in Portugal do not know how important this is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u68	A single process corresponds to a procedure manager, the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), which will support the applicant throughout the process cycle, will face up to the progress of the process and will link with all agencies and entities involved in the licensing process. [[PCP and BE protests.]] I say again: only those who have never invested in Portugal do not know how difficult it is to find a guy for an investment! A single process also corresponds to a single environmental title,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u69	How do you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u70	... which constitutes a single title of all pre-licensing and control acts applicable in the field of the environment. We will have a process, a license and a single environmental title. It is easier for companies, more efficient for APA supervisory activity, since it can track the entire process, the whole history of the company's activity, thus strengthening the ability of intervention, information and articulation with the various services and entities responsible for the environment. Therefore, no simplism in the sense of laxism is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u71	Don't you? Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u72	Finally, Mr Minister, a single case and a single licence also corresponds to a single environmental rate of lower value, so that the existing licensing costs are lowered. in these difficult times, making life easier for companies, increasing the efficiency of supervision, is something that should cheer up the opposition and not leave them sad. This one's called, gentlemen. Members, reforming, maintaining environmental requirements and security, speeding up procedures, harmonizing laws, eliminating redundancy and role, increasing transparency, effectiveness and the ability to monitor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u73	Have you read? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u74	I'm joining you, Mrs. Members, it is called to facilitate business life, increase competitiveness and thereby increase employment! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is expected that this measure will have a positive impact and this competitiveness regime will be a boost to employability, but it is expected that it will be a tool to meet the challenge and green commitment to combine economic growth and responsible environmental behaviour with a view to building a sustainable future in Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u75	Inside information!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u76	Mrs President: — The Greens are following the speech. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u77	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: I would like to say on behalf of the Greens that we have read the statement by the Council of Ministers and we have also had the opportunity to know the reflection of the Council's briefing and we have seen statements by the Minister of the Environment and the Secretary of State in the media. What happens, however, is that we have reached this debate on a proposal from the PSD, and we have not heard anything again, nor in the intervention of the Minister, nor in the intervention of the PSD. So, from Thursday to Thursday, the Government often wants to repeat the four paragraphs of the Council of Ministers communiqué to seem very, very much — from Thursday to Thursday! But from Thursday to Thursday nothing came forward in relation to what we first knew. That is why, Minister, it is not surprising that Members express their desire to move forward in the debate knowing the diploma. I think that's perfectly normal! Or does the Minister have anything to hide about the diploma? Or will you also tell the honourable Members: 'No, they will only know the diploma when it is published'? It is always for this time that the Assembly of the Republic is referred to. But if the Minister is pleased to come to discuss with us, let us further deepen the debate, with concrete, material bases and, therefore, with real diplomas and not only four paragraphs of communication. Mr President, the Minister has presented, in essence, a simplex of the environmental licence. Listen to the thing like this, when we hear about facilitating, unburocratizing, we all agree with it, obviously. Who doesn't agree with that? They are correct principles that must be encouraged, but, Minister, then, of the little we know, some doubts begin to arise, which we would like to see clarified. First, it may be good not to get into this misunderstanding, because this proposal from the Government does not reinforce anything at the level of environmental rules, because they remain. It is about unifying, simplifying, creating transparency, as Mr Minister says. It's good not to be 'bitter', because to so many, the message, then, you don't get it. I would like to know, for example, how services will be reorganized in accordance with the Government's proposal. We are talking about the issue of the licensing process manager and I would like to know, to have an idea, how many licensing process managers will be. We are talking about restraint or time-saving, and I would like to know how this government proposal is being implemented at a reduced time in the licensing process. So I would like to begin, perhaps, by sprinkling the matter a little more, with much more practical things at the practical level, so that we can actually understand what is at stake. For now, Madam President, these are the questions I would like to ask the Minister, because I see that someone has already given him time to give him answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u78	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I just wanted to realize that this is a embarrassing and uncomfortable debate for the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u80	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u81	in fact, the Communist Party presented here a set of criticisms, but suggestions and solutions did not present any.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u82	Solutions for what? You don't show the diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u83	The Left Block presented here a set of criticisms, but suggestions or solutions did not present any.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u84	Show the diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u85	The Socialist Party also has many criticisms to present, but suggestions and solutions did not present any. Interestingly, the largest party in the opposition was unable to make a discussion here on matters as simple as this: does the Socialist Party agree or not with simplification? We don't know, and the Socialist Party doesn't know either. Does it agree or not with increased transparency? We don't know, and the Socialist Party doesn't know either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u86	Chacha conversation. Substance zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u87	Do you agree to lower licensing costs? We don't know, and the Socialist Party doesn't know either. Do you agree with the reinforcement of successive control? We don't know, and the Socialist Party doesn't know either. Do you agree with the increase in procedural speed? We don't know, and the Socialist Party doesn't know either. It was the complete void.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u88	So much conversation and they didn't say anything about the diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u89	We have the hope that there for July—if God wills—maybe the Socialist Party will tell us what its official position on this matter is, because it will certainly be in that month, perhaps, that it will present its Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u90	And when do you guys present? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a lot of talk about growth and there is a lot of talk about job creation, but the fact is that when the government, in all areas of governance, presents measures in this direction, the opposition runs away from the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u92	What measures? Show the diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u93	I would like to point out the following : in a report by the PwC, entitled « Main challenges of industry in Portugal — 2013. A coherent approach to dynamizing the sector, could be read that licensing and other required processes are one of the 10 factors that inhibit industrial development. According to that report, duplication, weight and morbidity of bureaucratic processes continue to be the main barriers to the development of the Portuguese industry. It is in these circumstances that these amendments, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are not just desirable, as they are indispensable to creating an investment-friendly climate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u94	What changes? Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u95	You're going to distribute the diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u96	I am sure we will succeed with this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u97	Mrs. Members, the Government still has time available by the PSD. You have the floor, Mr Minister, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Firstly, I would like to refer to the role of the Assembly of the Republic so that there is no misunderstanding here. The Government, of course, and in this case the Ministry of the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy, not only values the role of the Assembly of the Republic, as it has created an additional opportunity, corresponding to the challenge launched by the proposing party, to debate a diploma that can always come back here for a parliamentary assessment. There is, therefore, a second opportunity for us to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u99	Where's the diploma? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u100	I think it was essential to know what ideas and proposals everyone has on this subject. It is necessary to pass a protest opposition to an alternative opposition, because we will all win with this and, in this sense, this was the missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u101	To the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u102	I hope that this possibility can still be improved. Secondly, I have verified here a huge gap between the perception that exists on the side of the opposition benches and the perception of the outside on the capacity that, in Portugal, there is compatibility with adjustment with leadership in the green economy. When the OECD, still yesterday, the United Nations and its Secretary-General, UNEP, the World Bank, NGOs, say that Portugal is the example—is not an example, is the international example in the Green Taxation, in the Green Growth Commitment, in the reduction of costs in excessive energy revenues, at the same time that it bets on renewable energy, in the reduction of energy dependence, it is extraordinary to see that this green rating that is today allocated to Portugal in a nearly unanimous way is devalued by the opposition benches when in fact we will have a triple A in the area of the environment. And that's good for companies, it's good for citizens, it's good for investment attraction and it's good for exports of our products. I'm sorry that wasn't recorded. Thirdly, there are a number of misconceptions here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in no way confusing licensing with supervision or inspection. on the contrary, it was precisely because we strengthened our inspection capacity and even the budget of IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning ) that conditions were created, unlike the generality of other episodes in international terms, so that the guilt this time « should not die single ». And I'm talking about the specific legionella case. The problem was not of legislation, it was of non-compliance with legislation in Portugal. That is why IGAMAOT has managed, in conjunction with health services, to create conditions for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts to ensure the accountability of potential precursors. Finally, Mrs. Members, a title, a case, a fee and a manager. There will be a manager, a person who is responsible, as we have in other matters, for monitoring the process. That is good news for the environment, for the citizens and for the economy. It just doesn't seem to be good news for the opposition. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u103	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u104	Madam President, Minister, I want to tell you directly that I am absolutely amazed. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u105	Mr Minister, in this second intervention, came to tell the Members that they could present parliamentary assessments. Look, Minister, thank you very much for the information. By the way, I could say under what conditions parliamentary groups can present parliamentary assessments! Mr. Minister likes to come here to owe the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, but we know him and we know what we can do. But, Mr Minister, if he was so interested in hearing the alternative views of the opposition, he would have put the legislative process under way in the Assembly of the Republic. Or didn't that happen to you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u106	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u107	Mr Minister, for God's sake, there must be some good sense here in the treatment that the Minister has with the Assembly of the Republic, I believe. Mr Minister wants to discuss this with Parliament so much that I have asked concrete, simple questions about things that have happened to me — see — when I read the four paragraphs of the Council of Ministers communiqué, such as : how many licensing process managers will proceed from here? How will the services be reorganized? how long will the licensing process be reduced? Mr President, the Minister is turning to this bench and says: « Mr. The Member, a title, a fee...", and little more than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u108	A trial!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u109	Come on, he repeated: a title, a fee, a process. So, what about my questions, Minister? Don't you answer? Doesn't the diploma say? You have no idea how this can be done? You see, Minister? That's what you wanted to argue about! It was for this kind of question that I had to get answers. Why didn't you bring it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u110	He wants to know about this for something!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u111	Because it was confirmed that you only wanted to do what I said at the beginning: repeat from Thursday to Thursday the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u112	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u113	I will finish, Madam President. Mr Minister wanted to repeat the same thing to get a lot into his ear, to seem a lot, but we are actually going to nude what he said and he gave nothing. We want the diploma! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u114	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u115	Mr President, Minister : The PSD « put him on bad sheets ». I brought him into a debate without, at least, preventing him from the fact that the opposition did not know the subject of Mr. Minister's coming here. It's not enough to talk about titles, you need to know exactly what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u116	But he's already started to meet today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u117	It is not worth to invoke that beat phrase that «the devil is in the details». But, in fact, we have to understand how this government has tried to reconcile environmental quality assurances with administrative simplification, and that is what we do not know. So the only thing Mr. Minister could do here was not to say that Parliament lost an opportunity, which is a manifestation of political arrogance — let me tell him — but it was to say: 'No, look, I will arrange for you to quickly get to know the law that this majority has produced'. It was the only attitude I could have taken here and that it was the one that had to do with a certain intellectual humility and capacity for political dialogue. You missed the opportunity, Minister. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u118	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, thus ending this current debate. I would like to congratulate the Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy Management and the honourable Member and the honourable Members. State Secretaries. We moved on to the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by strengthening primary health care close to populations ( PCP ), 1111 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by strengthening and valuing health professionals in the National Health Service ( PCP ), 1242 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of the primary care network and the hiring of professionals required for the normal functioning of the National Health Service ( BE ), 1244 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthening of the National Health Service ( PS ) and 1241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen primary health care ( The Greens ). To present the two draft resolutions of the CFP, I give the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems facing the country, from North to South, in emergency services, are not new, they are not timely, they are structural. The government, in the face of these problems, insists on maintaining the propaganda discourse, neglecting the problems faced by patients: those who wait hours to be cared for in an emergency service; those who are hospitalized in cadreiros because hospitals do not have beds to receive them; those who do not have access to medicines that could save their lives; those who do not take the medication because they do not have economic conditions to do so; those who do not go to consultation or treatment because they cannot afford transport. The chaos in which the National Health Service ( SNS) and the emergency service clearly results from the government's political options — the underfinancing of the SNS, the investment in primary health care, the social and professional devaluation of health professionals. On the de-investment in primary health care, it is the report of the Court of Auditors, of August 2014, which says, and I quote : « The financing for primary health care between 2009 and 2012 is contrary to the successively announced claim of a serious wager in the dynamisation of primary health care ». And the report further says: "The year 2012 stands out for the sharpest gap, compared to previous years, between funding for hospital care and that for primary health care. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u121	There has been a long time since the CFP has been warning of the consequences of this investment in primary health care, the decrease in response capacity due to close proximity services, the lack of professionals and the underfinancing that prevents the assumption of commitments and the mission to which primary health care is intended. More than a million and four hundred thousand Portuguese are without a family doctor. In fact, it was a promise made by this Government to assign a family doctor to all Portuguese, but it was not fulfilled, just like many others. The lack of responses from proximity services push the Portuguese to emergency services. Also the devaluation of health professionals has led many to abandon the National Health Service early, which only in relation to doctors occurred until November 2014, the early abandonment of 416.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u123	All kinds of professionals are missing. That is why, to solve the problems faced by the National Health Service, because the problems are structural and not timely, the CFP presents these two legislative initiatives. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u124	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service shows the consequences of the policy followed by the government, politics this star played by Minister Paulo Macedo. The policy of de-investment and de-investment, non-contracting of professionals, reduction of beds, closure of health services could only result. The urgencys are perhaps the most paradigmatic example of the inability to respond to the needs of the population. Blocking and collapse are two words that characterize the current situation. But there are other equally worrying situations: in the primary care network, in the continuing care network, in the lack of linkage between the hospital network and the primary health care network, there are obvious problems that exist, in addition to the fact that the measures taken by this government, late - I stress, late - the extension of the hours of operation of health centres to respond to the influenza epidemic is itself the recognition that closures and the reduction of the hours of the extensions and health centres affect the access of populations. This is the clear evidence that politics has failed in turn.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u127	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and at this stage, the Left Block presents a draft resolution that affects the issues we consider crucial to the National Health Service, such as the hiring of professionals and the form of this contract, because the use of temporary work companies for the hiring of doctors and nurses has proved catastrophic for the functioning of the National Health Service. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we accompany the other draft resolutions presented here by the various parties, which aim to restore in the centre of political debate the urgency and the need to catch up and change the policies that have been implemented by the SNS. Madam President, I cannot finish without recalling the debate we had yesterday in the Health Committee and which was indeed marked by the situation of patients with hepatitis C who do not have access to the medicines that can save their lives. from the Government, apart from the sad statements by the Prime Minister, we know nothing more so far. I know that the day is not over yet, but let us hope that today will not end without Minister Paul Macedo being accountable to the country of his responsibility, as he promised yesterday. We therefore hope that the day will not end without clarification from the guardianship on national shame that we know there are patients without access to medicines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u128	To speak by the Socialist Party, you now have the floor of Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ministry of Health has long been alerted to the effects of the options taken and also combined with economic and financial constraints. The Ministry of Health has long been pretending that it does not see the evidence, but the evidence knocks on the door, and painfully every day. The slowdown in the reform of primary health care, initiated by the previous government, which was already in the consolidation phase, represented a backlog in access to primary health care, prompting, from the outset, the decrease in its response capacity, which is not yet more visible due to the commitment and dedication of health professionals. In this regard, I will quote a few passages from an open letter from the General and Family Medicine Association addressed to Mr. Minister. I quote: « Mr. Minister, he does not listen to family doctors and does not want to pay attention to the serious problems we have in health centres. But we know the shortages and difficulties, we live on the day-to-day chaos because we work in front of the patients and we were here when the Minister arrived. By the way, we're still gonna stay here when you're gone. The Portuguese family doctors are exhausted and the Minister does not see and does not want to see. The Portuguese family doctors are hurt by the forgetfulness, background, devalued work, lack of measures, lack of resources, inadequate planning and confusion installed». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group speaking. We also regret the unfortunate statement by the Prime Minister when he states that everything must be done to save lives, but it does not cost anything. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u130	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u131	It's not demagogy, sir! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u132	We regret that Mr. Prime Minister continues to ignore the values, the logic, the essence, let us say, of the existence of the National Health Service. Primary health care should be the gateway to the National Health Service, but how they could not give an answer became the exit door. According to the Gulbenkian report, and as you like to quote, Portugal has a particularly sick, fragile and only elderly population without sufficient social support, requiring it to make frequent use of emergencies and hospital admissions. however, the urgency and hospital admission are also faced with a chaotic situation: there are no beds. And it is also good, so that we understand each other, to make the distinction between acute beds and continuous care beds. They're not the same thing and they're not in the same place. Patients often cannot be hospitalized in hospitals because there are no acute beds. It is not enough, too, to say that there are more beds in the National Health Service, thus confusing the Portuguese and making them believe that everything is better. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the Government may be aware that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will not please ask for what all Portuguese have and belong to them in their own right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u133	To present the diploma of the Green Party, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course we will all agree when we refer to the importance of the establishment of the National Health Service as regards access to health care by Portuguese. In fact, with the National Health Service we were able to substantially improve health indicators in Portugal and improve the health and quality of life of Portuguese. It was, in fact, through the National Health Service that Portuguese were able to enjoy primary health care coverage that was extended to virtually the whole country. The importance of primary health care, which is recognised internationally, stems not only from the fact that it represents the first step towards access to health care by citizens but also from the absolutely decisive contribution that primary health care has made to the improvement of health indicators in Portugal. It happens that governments, in particular the current government, have, over the years, been making worrying investments in primary health care which, as a result, have diminished their capacity to respond. In fact, today's situation in hospital emergencies clearly reflects this disinvestment on the part of the government in a sector as sensitive as that of health. And this House cannot be indifferent to what is happening in hospital emergencies, which is a real chaos, with times of waiting absolutely unacceptable and with patients dying while waiting to be cared for. This is a drama that stems from the de-investment by the government in the National Health Service, the limitations imposed on hospitals so that they can hire health professionals in a timely manner, the government's options regarding the use of temporary work enterprises, the containment of costs and, above all, the closure of health services, from the outset in the closure of primary health services, which could greatly contribute to preventing the congestion of hospital emergencies. And if it is true that today's problem in hospital emergencies is not solved only by strengthening primary health care, it is also true that this strengthening will contribute substantially, in the future, to diminish the dimension that the problem of hospital emergencies is gaining today. in this context, in addition to the importance that these care represents at the level of access to health care by citizens, the strengthening of primary health care will also contribute to avoid the repeated shame that the country is witnessing today, because of the responsibility of the current government. In fact, the number of legislative initiatives on strengthening primary health services, which the various opposition parliamentary groups have brought to discussion today, is evidence of this need. Therefore, aware of this need and considering that the Assembly of the Republic cannot pretend that nothing is happening, it cannot pretend that it is all right with regard to access to health care by citizens, The Greens present their legislative initiative in order to recommend to the Government that it strengthen primary health care. We will now hope that the parties of the majority, of the two, will either recognise this need or, in fact, continue to say that it is all very well, that it is all in order and that there is no problem. I just remember the ladies. Members of the parties of the majority than while the Members. Members say it's okay there are people who are dying while they wait to be cared for.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u135	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has always been concerned about primary health care, a health issue that has always been very important and that is currently under discussion with these initiatives. We understand that these care are undoubtedly the gateway to the National Health Service. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u137	I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u138	We make use of a non-selective memory, that is, different from that used here, especially by the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party. For this reason, we easily see that the lack of family physicians is the result of years of poor planning and poor management of human resources in the field of health and that the concerns and anxieties of the populations, which are, of course, aggravated in the most distant municipalities, with older population and with worse accessibility. We are well aware that General Medicine and Family is one of the medical specialties where there is a greater lack of human resources, where it is necessary to act and, therefore, we recognize that the Government has made efforts and taken very concrete measures to ensure that more and more citizens have access to a family doctor. It's not worth saying otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Your rhetoric, redundant, used here since the first day that this government took possession is because of this opposition out there, because the facts deny your arguments on a daily basis. It is not worthwhile, therefore, to continue to accuse the government of 'deinvestment' — such a expensive word for you — of primary and public health care when more than EUR 13 million has been invested in the last three years. It is not worth shouting 'no doctor' to users' when in the last two years we have more 343 000 Portuguese with a family doctor and there has been an increase in the number of users per family doctor—more 617 000 users/year. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is not worth accusing the government of not opening USF (family health units) or passing USF from model A to model B, when, since 2011, 82 new community care units (UCC ) opened 116 new family health units of model A, passed 61 USF from model A to model B and 30 health centers opened. And what about the charge of privatization of health when, between 2012 and 2013, there were more 9000 home medical consultations and more 110,000 nursing home visits? What about investment in human resources? More than 6000 vacancies have been opened for doctors and nurses since 2011 and a huge effort has been made to hire family doctors. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u139	It's all right, it's all a wonder! You don't believe what you're saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u140	Six national competitions were opened in a total of 1082 open vacancies. Specifically, as regards nurses, 1000 vacancies have recently been opened and the "family nurse" was created. Mrs. Members, the facts show that the Government has done, as I said, all efforts to reform primary health care, so that they will definitely become at the entry door of the SNS, as we all believe it should be, ensuring the necessary proximity to the populations and providing the actions inherent to its characteristics, with quality and in clinical and socially appropriate time. That is why, until we subscribe to your bills, here today discussed, they were not manifestly extemporaneous, they did not defend the measures that this government has already implemented or is actually implementing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u141	Extemporaneous? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u142	Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end without recalling the recognition of who needs the SNS most. According to the National Health Assessment System, in 2013 the level of satisfaction of SNS users was 74 % and in 2014 increased to 89 %. They are the ones who need, they are the ones who have recognized the work of this government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Personally, I am pleased with these results. The CDS welcomes these results and we do not hesitate to congratulate the Government on these good results. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u143	by the PSD, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Plata.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We returned to the issue of health, after yesterday we had spent 4 and a half hours in the hearing with the Minister of Health. Surely the hearing had moments for future reflection and it can always be said that the actions remain with those who practice them, but not to observe here the use of emotion and other pain is, at least, indelicacy towards the role of a Member while, and also, he, citizen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I mentioned earlier, today we have four draft resolutions on health. Are opposition parties today presenting proposals for solutions to the problems detected in the National Health System? — ask the common citizen. Nothing more false, dear citizen. What the opposition, in great block, intends to do is just, on the one hand, to show its concern in competing with each other and, on the other, to generate more confusion and more panic in Portuguese society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u146	They hibernate when it is not appropriate and dissipate when it is appropriate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u147	Don't lie, sir! Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u148	And the dear citizen will complain: "but do they present solutions? » Dir-CL-I will -he, dear citizen, that the opposition proposals are exactly what the government has been implementing, and the alleged solutions still fail and demonstrate, above all, the great ignorance of the daily health units and the great effort involved by all its professionals, to whom we greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u149	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u150	to the championshipinterpositions the government offers cooperation as a method of finding solutions. See the policy of medicine, see the policy of fixing and contracting human resources, against the precariousness that has been developed by the Socialist Party. What was announced yesterday by the Minister of Health: that young people between the ages of 12 and 18 would be exempt from moderate rates. None of this was observed here by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u151	You're the one who got him down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u152	Having said this, ladies and gentlemen, the PSD cannot follow redundancy and much less want to be the referee of the floral games between oppositions, stating, before, to the opposition parties, and paraphrasing a beautiful theme of the Portuguese music of the human group, «change tone so that life is not just a lament». They see that being opposed is not only opposed; it is also proposed. And now we have learned that the left is the great friend of the capital, it is the great friend of the great capital and it does not give the governments the decision-making space, in this case the Government of the Portuguese Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u153	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u154	Mrs Helena Pinto has just signed up for a new intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just need a few seconds to get back to Mr. João Plata's speech. Unfortunately, and in a debate with this importance—we are talking about the National Health Service—the PSD and CDS benches here made a party speech that they feel overwhelmed by on such important issues as this. That is exactly what happened, Mr, and it is natural that they do, because they are in complete dissonance with reality. In fact, it is interesting to see that Mr. João Plata talks about panic, that the opposition does this and that. But, sir, panic? Oh, my God! The honourable Member should go to the emergency, to anyone, to see what the panic there is. Or rather, the despair of the people there are 6, 10, 12 hours! That is what the honourable Member should do: go there! The honourable Member began his speech by addressing these benches, in a way, as far as I am wrong, but his obligation as a member of the bench that supports the government would be to say what happens, in fact, with access to medicines for patients with hepatitis C. It is a responsibility, Mr President! Mr. Paulo Almeida, I note that he is already suffering from the same evil as the Minister of Health. It is very easy to come to these debates to parade numbers, numbers and numbers. It's a rain of numbers! And it looks like we're lost in the middle of that rain. But this is the big mistake and, indeed, this is also the great mistake of Minister Paulo Macedo, because health are not numbers, health are people. And without having this central idea in the head of what the public service is, to whom the National Health Service is addressed, one cannot go there and, on the contrary, only the retrogression in health policies is promoted. We are jeopardizing all health gains over the last few decades and only you don't see, you don't want to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u156	You must conclude, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u157	I shall finish, Madam President, with a suggestion to Mr. João Plata. Mr President, with the advice you gave to the opposition, saying that concrete proposals have failed here — you voted against the extension of the exemption from moderate rates up to the age of 18 proposed by the Left Block! — Mr President, get ready, because the opposition will certainly be the place reserved for you in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u158	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u159	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u160	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u161	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u162	Madam President, since you have been accused of demagogy,... [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u163	I would like to ask the President if she could have the Portuguese Association for General Medicine and Family Medicine distributed, firstly, the open letter to the Minister of Health and, secondly, the news that there were few passages, with Mr. Prime Minister's remarks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u164	That will be the case, Mrs. Deputies. When making this documentation available to the Bureau, it will be distributed through the different benches. To speak again, Mr. João Plata of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I would like to thank the good suggestions and good contributions to my parliamentary performance here offered by Mrs Helena Pinto, who I always hear also with great pleasure and great pleasure. The honourable Member is absolutely right about the moderate rates. Only it has forgotten to contextualize the proposal presented here by the Left Block. [[There he is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u166	It was presented at a time when we were with the troika, which the Socialist Party brought to Portugal and, in this case, we had goals to meet, and they were met. More, in health—as you know, and very well, and the numbers don't fool—there are two situations that must be recorded. First, there has never been a budget for health as large as this government, either in this legislature or in previous ones. Secondly, the honourable Member knows as well as we know that, as we heard yesterday, thanks to the policy of the medicine, not all the pharmacy closed, as it was anticipated by the entire opposition and, above all, the most needy had access to cheaper medicines. By the way, Madam President, if you will give me another 3 seconds, I would like to say the following: today there has been news in a newspaper, to which I shall read. I am sorry, because this is a matter of concern to people's hearts, but we must not usurp the right to each other's emotions and sensitivity and take advantage of it for the political debate in this Parliament, with regard to the medicine for hepatitis C. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u167	It says this news from the newspaper: "The family members of the patients now point their finger at the pharmaceutical company and accuse the company of being watching from the cabin while people die, not lowering the price of the medicine. They have a profit of 5000 % on the medicine and they are letting people die', says the citizen, arguing that patients, associations and doctors should join together to fight pharmaceutical because more people will die. Do you know who's here next to the pharmacy? It is exactly the left all, it is not the Government of Portugal, that it is defending the patients. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, PCP, BE and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u168	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u169	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u170	Mr President, at a time like this, I would ask you to defend the honor of the bench, because insinuating that a bench, whatever it is, on a subject like this, is defending the interest of pharmaceuticals, is very serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u171	Mr President, we shall have the opportunity to end this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u172	No, Madam President, the defense of the honor of the bench, as you know, is done immediately. But I won't, because this provocation doesn't deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u173	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u174	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u175	Mr President, it is, in the same terms that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has used, to say exactly the same thing. In fact, in politics, it cannot be worth everything, Mr. João Plata. [[Yeah, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u176	Only despair justifies your intervention. however, the interventions are recorded...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u177	The honourable Member has to say what is the regimental figure she is invoking to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u178	I will finish, Madam President. At any other time, I would also ask for the honour of this bench, but neither the honourable Member nor your bench deserves that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u179	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr João Oliveira also asked for the floor. I was asking the gentlemen. Members invoked the regimental figure under which they do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u180	Mr President, it is, in the same terms, to ask for the honour of the bench, so that, at the end of the debate, we can put the points to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u181	Mr. João Oliveira, leader of the PCP bench, is then registered to exercise the right to defend the honor of the bench. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u182	Madam President, it is to use the floor on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u183	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u184	Madam President, today we are witnessing a new form of defense of honor. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos had the opportunity to do so if they understood that the honor of the bench had been offended. But no. They merely wanted to make a political number, which in no way dignified the Rules of Procedure, nor the functioning of the proceedings in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u185	Mr President, I would ask you not to make the mistake that you are pointing out to the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u186	I won't run because I'm not making any defense of honor...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u187	So what are you doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u188	Madam President, I am using the right figure on the conduct of the work to ask the President to try to avoid the use of figures that do not exist in the Rules of Procedure next time this happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u189	Are you teaching Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u190	Mr President, the benches on my right, which are the left benches in this Parliament, have been outraged by a Member of the Democratic Social Party saying that they have been next to the pharmaceuticals... [[PS, PCP, BE and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u191	Mr President, I ask you not to make the same mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u192	Madam President, I apologize, but I will not incur.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u193	You don't have time for an intervention. Your warning was clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u194	I'm finishing up, Madam President. As I said, the left benches were outraged by this bench saying that they are next to the pharmaceutical industry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u195	Mr President, your warning was clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u196	... but they do not think that the government bench is unworthy when they say what they say, using an absolutely unacceptable language in the parliamentary debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u197	Your position is clear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u198	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u199	Mr. João Oliveira will have the opportunity to defend the honor of his bench. I now give the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u200	Madam President, I am asking for the floor to say that, since we still have time and we are still going to intervene in the debate, let us not defend the honor of the bench because we will give the explanations we have to give in the intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u201	Your non-registration to defend the honor of the bench is then registered, Mr. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u202	Madam President, Mr. João Prata, Mr. João Oliveira, life sometimes forces us to face complicated situations, forces us to make sad figures. Mr. João Plata, I should like to say the following: when you talk about pharmaceuticals, you know that the Assembly of the Republic does not have to be monitoring the pharmaceutical industry. What the Assembly of the Republic has to monitor is the activity of the Government. [[Mr. BE Helena Pinto's applause.]] If the government is a hostage to the pharmaceutical industry, it must take measures to avoid it. [[Rice from PSD MP João Prata.]] Are you laughing? Oh, my God! The honourable Member did not say that we were next to the pharmaceutical industry, he said that we were the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u203	I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u204	It's on tape, sir! Mr President, we are not the ones who are 'fatting' the private sector in the field of health. [[PSD protests.]] Then Mr. Paulo Almeida said that there were no health cuts and that there was even more money. Mr President, if there has even been more money for health and if there are no cuts, then what is happening in hospital emergencies, oncological treatments and in the treatment of hepatitis C is due to the incompetence of the government - I see nothing more; I think that "the amendment is worse than the sonnet". So, according to the honourable Member, there is even more money for health. But this government cannot ensure hospital emergencies, Mr! I believe that in the last three years the government has cut EUR 1 5 billion in health, twice as much as the troika has demanded. But the honourable Member even says no, that there is more money. So, the rectifications served to feed the pharmaceutical industry, to relieve the debts of the laboratories. But if you say there's even more money for health, then why is what's happening with health? Oh, my God! Incompetence of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u205	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u206	I must tell you, Mr. João Plata, that in fact, the Minister of Health yesterday was in the Health Committee to tell us, on hepatitis C, what he told us last June: we are negotiating. It's regrettable! It's deeply regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u208	I just want to remember that while you say that everything is very good, that there is even more money, there are people who die while waiting to be cared for. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u209	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD Members, we are not in the government negotiating with the pharmaceuticals, it is the government. And it's the government that's leaving the patients without medication and letting them die without that medication. But we will focus the debate on what the debate should be. You may be very upset about the consequences of your policies, but what you cannot do is to keep quiet about not bringing here and denounce the despair and the dramatic situations that the patients face: patients who wait hours in an emergency to be treated; patients who do not take the medication because the government does not allow them to access this medication; patients who do not take the medication because they do not have economic conditions to do so; patients who are waiting in the emergencies, leave them without being treated because they give up this care. Now, in the face of these problems, you try to run away from them, you don't answer them clearly. Why? In order to maintain the government's propaganda, to continue to hide the evils that the government does, the government's policy does. However, as far as this is concerned, Mr PSD, the CFP is not exempt from submitting proposals here. We, in addition to denouncing the problems, have made many and many good proposals with a view to its resolution. But PSD and CDS-PP invariably lead these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u211	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u212	And what has to be clear here is that today's situation in the National Health Service, the situation with which the patients are faced is a confirmation of what the PCP has said: this government has been in office for too long and every day it spends is another day that the country loses, it's another day that the country goes back. That is why this government should have already been resigned or should have resigned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u213	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u214	By not doing so, we will continue to fight for the resignation of this government and for the rupture of this policy, so that everyone will in fact have access to health and for primary health care to be strengthened. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u215	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1110 / XII ( 4 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) ( PCP ), 1111 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), 1242 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1244 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 1241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ). We will continue with the discussion of draft resolution No 1189 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the use of registered mail in the calls of IEFP and ISS, IP to prevent the cutting of social benefits ( BE ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The draft resolution we are presenting today is very simple and I think it is understandable to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. What we have come up with here is that it is mandatory to send registered mail and with notice of receipt of all calls and communications which may call into question the payment of social benefits to beneficiaries. We know that many unemployed and unemployed people who, because of difficulties up to the CTTs, whose post office, due to changes, have changed from daily to once a week, have lost their allowances because they do not receive the notification sent by the employment centres and social security services. That is why greater speed is required in this situation. The unemployed and the unemployed, the beneficiaries of the social unemployment allowance and the beneficiaries of the social income for inclusion have rights and duties very tight. There are many and many, who, because of the condition of resources that this government has changed, have lost, as you well know, these subsidies. In addition to this situation, the requirement to be present for these benefits to continue. As I have already mentioned, many and many beneficiaries of these benefits do not receive the notifications, there is no investigation of why that circumstance and it is sufficient that they do not present themselves to the services on the day so that the benefits are cut off from them. That is why we are bringing to the debate a change of procedures. We are not here producing higher charges,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u217	They're, they're, they're, they're,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u218	... but an administrative procedure that is more transparent and faster. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u219	Mr David Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen, in recent years, the policy of the PECs and the troika, a huge deterioration and deterioration in the living conditions of the Portuguese people, especially as a result of the action of the current PSD/CDS government. Quarterly employment surveys carried out by the INE confirm that unemployment remains a structural problem in the country, that continues to destroy jobs and that the government insists on trying to disguise reality, using unemployed workers in stages and training courses to manipulate unemployment numbers. Data now published by INE also demonstrate unequivocally that poverty and inequality increased between 2010 and 2013 and that about 808,000 Portuguese were thrown into poverty, moving to a total of 2,7 million people, which means that the poverty rate increased more than 30 %. Well the right may try to withhold and underestimate these data with the argument that they refer to 2013, when it is known that in 2014 the government worsened operating conditions on workers, reformed and the generality of beneficiaries of social protection. And if we look at the reality planned for 2015, not only does the government keep its way, as it still shortens, at the state budget, EUR 375 million in social benefits and workers' rights. Mr. President and Mrs. Members: This whole picture was no longer enough, with great difficulties on a daily basis of the Portuguese, based on a reality that has been systematically aggravated by the parties of the majority PSD / CDS, through the exponential increase in cuts in social benefits, as in many situations, beneficiaries become unprotected one day to the other without knowing why. The administrative action of the State shall not prevent or prohibit access to social protection guaranteed by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. A citizen can no longer be considered unemployed when he did not attend the IEFP interview, because he did not receive the summons passing to the category of the discouraged. It cannot be a delay in the distribution of correspondence or a simple deviation from the letter leading to a suspension of payments for social benefits such as unemployment benefits, social unemployment benefit or social income for inclusion (RSI), among others, which depend on the lives of citizens and families. The CFP follows this draft resolution which makes it mandatory to send registered mail and with notice of receipt of all calls and communications that may call into question the payment of social benefits to beneficiaries, because all the rules of operation of the State must comply with the criteria of transparency and equality between all citizens, removing opacity and obstacles, the consequences of which, in addition to injustice, distort reality. More: we insist that we need to go further and also change our own social benefits policy, ensuring that all citizens are protected to which they are entitled. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u221	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 1189 / XII ( 4. ( a ) submitted by the Block of Left, today under consideration, proposes that it be compulsory by the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training and Social Security to send registered mail with reception notice in all calls and communications made to the beneficiaries of social benefits, claiming as the main reason the delay in the mail. Researching the procedures adopted, it is found that, along with existing legislation, there are internal guidance from the PSI, requiring a set of precise procedures to be referred to. The unjustified absence to the first summons, sent by normal mail, in the five working days for justification, implies that a second summons are issued, in which the system itself issues the reference « single registered letter », which allows, with the registration number, through a link of the mails, to confirm whether the letter has been delivered to the addressees. The applicant for employment, in addition to the three working days for the appearance, has five working days to justify the lack of verification of the facts which determine it. If the second call is not made, the services shall be notified at the pre-hearing hearing by registered letter with simple registration. The candidate shall be informed of all the reasons on which the notification is based and shall be given five working days to consult the procedure and, if he wishes, the candidate for employment, in the written form, may tell what is offered to him on the matter. Finally, in the face of successive unjustified errors or unacceptable justification, a notice of final decision for annulment and communication to the social security service shall be made by registered letter. in this final decision to cancel the registration, the candidate is still informed of the possibility to appeal to the regional coordinator of resources. It is also noted that contact via phone, SMS or e-mail is often used in an attempt to avoid cutting social benefits. from what was said, the draft resolution submitted by the Block of the Left mirror that this bench had no knowledge nor was it concerned to inform itself about the procedures adopted by the services which, in a synthetic way, I have just mentioned. If he has done so, the presentation of the text expressed in this draft resolution leads us to raise serious doubts about the real concern that the Left Block calls upon the unemployed or if, like the last interventions, it reflects the obsession that the Left Block, supported by the rest of the opposition, has expressed itself in rejecting the recovery cycle of our economy and in not accepting the reduction of registered unemployment. in this sense, they constantly question the unemployment data published by institutions such as the INE or others internationally recognized, question the role of companies and our entrepreneurs in access to the use of active employment policies in job creation and, with this draft resolution, question the procedures that have been used. In addition to what I have already said about the fact that this procedure implies spending more EUR 8, EUR 5 million, without any useful effect for unemployed citizens, it is a value to withdraw from social expenditure and to bring down the budget for social security, and it is up to this Government and all citizens to ensure its sustainability. This means that the PSD parliamentary board is not appropriate to follow the claims of the Left Block initiative. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u223	Mr Artur Rego has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u224	Mr. Artur Rêgo ( CDS-PP ). — Madam President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca and other BE Members, we in the CDS have no doubt, and it would be surprising to have them, as regards the goodness of your initiative and I have no doubt that they really want to help resolve a possible problem. However, there is one aspect which has not been fully clarified. It is that if the first notification is by simple post, the second notification is already made by registered mail, although it is a simple record. Then there is another question: the fact is that the social security budget does not leave the State budget and therefore any increase in expenditure in that budget is borne by the own funds, which are money that must be optimized and intended to provide social assistance in order to provide social benefits. This claim of the Left Block that the correspondence between the Social Security Institute and the PSEI is made by mail registered with a reception notice will cost the social security budget of around EUR 8, 5 million, which do not leave the State budget and which would be diverted from funds applied to social assistance to be used for postal expenses. So there is a question of whether the Left Block has considered this issue. Then, in concrete terms, and accepting, as I said, the goodness of the Left Block initiative, I would like to invite you to a reflection. This is proposed in order to make it clear that the notification may be extradited, to which it is not received for any reason, they should know that the registered mail with receipt notice can only be delivered by the mailman to himself. If, by chance, the consignee is not at home to sign the log at the time the mailer passes, the mailer will deposit it at the mail station where the consignee will be able to go within the next three days, within the working time, which may not be an appropriate time for a person who is actively looking for employment or to perform other tasks. If this does not happen, the letter is returned and, as you know, in accordance with the general law of the case law, it is assumed, for legal purposes, that the registered mail with notice of receipt which is not received or lifted was received. In other words, the final effect and the final consequences will be much more harmful to the worker if he is not at home when the mail official passes over than those of the simple registration notice, which is the case with the second notification. In addition, as has been said here, the processes are not made « cold»; there are contacts that are made telephone to locate people, etc. Therefore, I repeat that, accepting the good intention of the Left Block initiative, taking into account the possible and more serious costs and consequences that a registered letter with a reception notice may bring to its recipients, I do not think that this initiative will bring any benefit to the people concerned. on the contrary, it may also cause serious damage to them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u225	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that this project of the Left Block has the merit of allowing a political assessment of everything that has to do with the core of the project, not being merely an administrative discussion around records and reception notices. On the one hand, this project is even timely, because the INE has divulged, a few days ago, the numbers relating to poverty and unemployment, which has to do with social benefits and unemployment benefits. On the other hand, there has been a brutal increase in poverty, an increase in unemployment in the last quarter of 2014, and a reduction in employment, Mrs Teresa Santo E, even in terms of counterparts, passed the media campaign launched yesterday by the Government and here seconded by Mrs Deputy, the improvement that occurred at the cost of emigration, as there was a reduction of 80 000 Portuguese in the active population and 22 000 over-employed according to IEFP data. Therefore, there is no reduction in unemployment, Mrs Deputies. on the contrary, in the last quarter of 2014 there was a worsening of unemployment in Portugal. We ended 2014 with a worsening of unemployment in Portugal. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we add to the 726 000 unemployed the 260 000 inactive available, i.e. discouraged, and 160 000 unemployed employed in employment and vocational training programmes, there are actually about 1 million unemployed in Portugal. of the 726 000 unemployed according to INE data and certified yesterday as unemployment increases in the last quarter of 2014 almost 70 % do not receive unemployment benefits. Fact: grave social problems created by rising unemployment and poverty. Government response: it can't reduce poverty, it can't fight unemployment. And what have you done? Procedural manoeuvres, bureaucracy to artificially reduce unemployment figures. The Ombudsman censures the IEFP because of irregularities in the calls to the beneficiaries of the CSR and the unemployment allowance. It's not the Socialist Party that says so, it's Mr. Ombudsman. I also have a communication from the INE that excludes IEFP data because they are not a good indicator of unemployment. What I mean by this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bloc on the Left, is that the dangers, the fears underlying the presentation of your project have every reason to be and exist. That is what we want to make clear. The Government has expressed, in the face of the problems of poverty and rising unemployment, an obsession by cuts in social benefits and by artisans in political discourse, even through bureaucracy—that is what INE and the Ombudsman say—to artificially try to present good numbers in terms of unemployment. Therefore, in fact, Mrs Deputy, the problem exists. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we have memories and the Portuguese, too, and it was this government that said here, precisely in the plenary, that there were 100 000 former beneficiaries of the social income of insertion to whom this income was cut because they had a heritage of more than 100 000 €, which, even today, despite a request from the Socialist Party, has not yet proved. It is this prejudice, it is this intention that leads us to attribute merit to the draft resolution of the Left Block. We understand that, from a financial and technical point of view, there can be better solutions without bad costs and without being like social security, in which nearly 700 workers were fired. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u227	Mr David Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Artur Rêgo, the seriousness has no price. The second notification to the beneficiary is registered but is to communicate the cut in the benefit. I therefore hope that it will be very clear that what you have told us does not correspond to reality. The vote against the majority on this project means that they agree and support the cut in that same benefit. There's the burden! These are not administrative acts, as you wanted to translate with your exposure. Finally, I would like to say that it does not have the CFP for further cuts and further deterioration of the exploitation against the beneficiaries, who already suffer from VV policy. Ex. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are not just discussing procedures, but the truth is, by changing procedures, we can improve people's lives. The gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament have never been approached by a beneficiary of the social unemployment allowance or the IRS (social income for inclusion) saying that he was summoned for an interview and that he received the post-notification, thus missing the interview and that, for this reason, he was cut off the benefit? There are many of these cases. On the other hand, and this has already been mentioned here, the second notification — the one that says 'Ex. Mr. / Mr.a, we have informed you that we have cut your allowance" — it is in registered mail and it is to account for the act of the court. Therefore, we propose greater and better speed to avoid so many cuts. You have made the accounts at the cost of this proposal that the Left Block has brought and you are sure that other investigations have been made. How many people have already been cut off unemployment benefit, social unemployment allowance, and others, because of lack of attendance at these interviews? Those numbers don't have them! But there are many thousands of people who are affected by this route. Mrs. PSD's deputy said...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u231	Teresa Santos!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u232	... that we did not want to discuss unemployment and employment data. But, Mrs. Member, the Left Block is open to discuss all these data. It is that there is no job creation because, in fact, the rate of employees has decreased and unemployment data are not encouraging at all, Mrs. Therefore, what we wanted to discuss today was a very concrete measure that facilitates the already unfortunate life of the unemployed, the unemployed and the people who receive social benefits. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that the Left Block is open to discussion on this matter. It may not be with this rigour that we propose in the draft resolution, other measures may be taken. We just want to prevent people from being cut off because they don't attend an interview for which they haven't received any notification. The essential question and the question that moves us is the defense of the unemployed and the unemployed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u233	As the Bureau no longer registers, we will continue with the discussion of draft resolution No 1240 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends support for the candidature of Madeira's yeasts to the heritage of humanity ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present today a draft resolution which aims to provide an impetus to the candidacy of Madeira's leadership to the heritage of humanity. The levadas of Madeira Island are a jewel of regional heritage and are unique examples of national heritage. The first ones date from the 15th century and the last ones from the first half of the 20th century. They tell the history of the relationship of human beings with water; they are stories of survival that tell how harmoniously you can take advantage of what nature gives us, overcoming, in an ingenious way, the hardest obstacles. These measures also testify to how economic, social and environmental interests associated with water management have been interacted. They are inseparable living works of the settlement and adaptation to the middle of the people of Madeira and the development of agricultural activity. They are all these characteristics and many more that give Madeira's teddies an indisputable regional importance, but also, undeniably, a national and universal value. A candidacy for the heritage of humanity must be prepared and built, of course, by the living forces and the entities of the region. The explicit support of the Assembly of the Republic and the Government to which the Greens are proposing today will give the candidacy of those taken to the heritage of humanity a dimension that joins it in the eyes of UNESCO. The classification of Madeira's levadas as a heritage of humanity, in addition to being a fair recognition of its heritage value, will create a set of opportunities for its preservation and valorization, associated with the old and new uses, enhancing tourism and economic dynamization of the interior of Madeira, sport of nature, but also stimulating the maintenance of its initial use, water. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore look forward to the support of all the banks for the initiative which the Greens are presenting today in the Assembly of the Republic in defence of Madeira's levadas. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u235	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They are more than 2000 km of levadas that snake the mountains of Madeira, many of them built between 800 and 1000 m of altitude. These structures — some of which date back to the 15th century — were erected to correct the needs of the island, transporting the water from which there existed in abundance, on the slopes facing north, where it was defective, on the slopes facing south. Today, these teddies are visited by thousands of tourists, locals and foreigners, who find in them an almost perfect symbiosis between a pristine nature and human action in which it is a true hymn to the human creative genius, unrivalled throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but give a personal note. I, like any Madeiran, am very proud of the levadas and see in them a unique heritage that was left to us by my ancestors, by a people who refused to surrender to the difficult orography of an island, who laid hands on the work and who built for themselves and for future generations a unique heritage that left us, an example. I also remember the men and women who died—and there were many! — in building these leads, but still today, through their memory and example, they speak to us and echo in history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u238	But the leads aren't Madeira and this diploma doesn't just have to do with Madeira. The proposal underlying this diploma is, above all, a celebration of Portugal in its diversity. Where many see barriers and divisions, we see strength, union, wealth, by our songs, by our knowledge, by our flags, by our cellars. We are Portugal, a diverse but united country, and that is what reflects this diploma. A Portugal in its extension, in its dimension, which is from the mountains of the Minho, which is from the Azorian furnaces, which is from the Alentejan plains, which is from the Lisboa hills, which is from the levadas of Madeira. It is this Portugal, which is different but united, which presents this candidacy. It is this Portugal, which is different but united, which supports this candidacy. If you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be this Portugal, diverse, united and with the unanimous vote of this House, which will be here to receive the UNESCO award. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u239	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I welcome and congratulate The Greens for bringing to this House a draft resolution that recommends the Government of the Republic to support and encourage the candidacy of the elections of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to the world heritage of humanity, which is awarded by UNESCO. Undoubtedly, the levadas of Madeira are a great masterpiece of man and the history of them is confused even with the history of man, because the appearance of the levadas lies at the beginning of the population, at the beginning of colonization, in the fifteenth century. For those who do not know the marked orography of Madeira Island, it would be very important to perceive its difficulties and its mountain relief. The south, where it predominantly began to be populated and where it had better conditions for agriculture and people's fixation, had a shortage, the water, which in turn was more abundant in the north. It is from here that man, in his superior work, very difficult, because he had to do, often, supported in rocks and trunks, carried the water from the north, making tabulations in timbers such as the til and the barbusian — are endemic plants that are part of the tropical forest, including Lauriessilva, which is the heritage of humanity—to the South in order to irrigate the plantations and, above all, at that time, the canals, sugarcane, helping in its press and in its engineers. I would say that without the water of Madeira's yeasts it would not be possible to carry out a Madeiran stage, as was the sugar route. In addition, the levadas are a huge heritage and have a vital importance for the first tourism region in Portugal, the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It is through the levadas that we go through the interior of the island and we check the majestic Madeira, its lush landscapes, its mirrors, contact with an absolutely unique flora in the world and which is also part of Laurissilva. However, I would like to say that more recently there has been a very important role in hydro-agricultural and hydro-electric development that has been made, to a large extent, by Eng. Manuel Rafael Amaro da Costa, father of Adelino Amaro da Costa. It was a highly skilled and illustrious engineer who had a very important role, in the second half of the last century, in hydro-agricultural and hydro-electric promotion in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u241	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u242	in the draft resolution, it is mentioned that the submission of the candidature of Madeira's levadas the heritage of humanity was made in 1994 and that incorporated three levadas. I would like to say to the honourable Member that this candidacy cannot be « of the ones taken», but rather « of the ones taken», because some do not maintain authenticity and we have to look for this feature and re-characterise them. This candidacy obliges many demands and must deserve all our commitment to its characterization, its authenticity, its criteria, so that we can carry it forward. We gave it away and considered it very valid. To those who have not yet gone to Madeira or to those who have already gone but have not visited the gates, I recommend that you do so, because you will certainly be kept in memory for the rest of your life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u243	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the Greens on the presentation of this initiative on behalf of the CFP, which seems to us to be of full relevance. Mr. Heloísa Apollonia wants Mrs. Members who have intervened and who originate from the Autonomous Region of Madeira have already given us eloquent testimony here about the importance of the taken as a fundamental element of the cultural and natural heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Therefore, your interventions are the eloquent testimony of the relevance of the candidacy presented to UNESCO many years ago and of the relevance of giving a new impetus, of greater commitment, so that this process can be concluded. In fact, the only thing we can miss is the inertia of the Regional Government of Madeira over all these years. Since the application was initially submitted in 1994 or when it was mentioned and started working with this objective, it is strange that, at the end of all these years, the process is no longer advanced. the particular relevance of this initiative. In our view, therefore, it makes the whole sense that the Assembly of the Republic adopts this position so that this will serve as an incentive for the Regional Government of Madeira to come out of the elections to be held on 29 March in their hands in a decisive way, with a view to the advancement of this candidacy to UNESCO so that Madeira's levadas can be considered, sooner than later, the heritage of humanity. I would win the Autonomous Region of Madeira and win the national community as a whole if, among the very rich national heritage which, fortunately, is already classified by UNESCO, we could add to this list the levadas of Madeira. It would have all the relevance, we would all earn a lot and, more than that, this great work that our Macedonian compatriots have been doing over the centuries deserves a fair recognition not only of the national community, but also universal, and that would be recognized through this initiative, having it fit in UNESCO, which will be possible if there is the necessary commitment by all — the government bodies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the sovereignty bodies of the Republic. We should all work towards this goal and, enthusiastically, we give our vote in favour of this project of the Green Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u245	For an intervention, Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have already heard, Madeira's levadas are in fact a genuine treasure, a heritage of the region, a heritage of the country. The history of Madeira is also confused with the history of the levadas. We can say, without a doubt, that the history of Madeira cannot be separated from the history of the levadas, the construction of the levadas of Madeira began practically with the beginning of the island's population. The need to capture water from the mountains to irrigate the fields of cultivation and to serve the villages sharpened the engineering and art of the Madeirans and between the hard rock was tilling the land and building the levadas, it was building these small irrigation channels between mountains and valleys. According to researcher Hélder Spínola there are about 1400 km of levadas with historical interest, which is very, as we can imagine, for an island with only 700 km2. The levadas cross the Lauriessilva forest of Madeira classified, as we all know, UNESCO's world heritage since 1999, while integrating the network of sites of Community importance, best known by the Natura 2000 Network. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Madeira is, in fact, a unique place, already well-known at national and global level for its extensive and affordable watercourses where the footpaths of the roads stand out. It is therefore also a tourist product that needs to be preserved and caressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u248	But the lifts still remain a vast irrigation network to collect the waters from the numerous springs to the fields of cultivation from the north to the south of the island. This draft resolution is relevant and it is, in fact, necessary for the regional governments and the Republic to commit themselves, through an appropriate strategy, to collect the necessary information in order to prepare a consistent proposal crediblely and submit this candidature of Madeira's leadership to the world heritage of humanity with UNESCO. In conclusion, Mrs President and Mrs. Members, the levadas are a very important heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a heritage of Portugal, a heritage of the world, and the Socialist Party supports this initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u249	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u250	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block of the Left follows this initiative of the Greens Ecological Party with the same commitment that we faced here with a total unanimity in the defence of the Laurissilva forest the world heritage and how it ended up being consecrated. The levadas, which are congenital to Madeira's settlement, have instrumentally enormous European value: they are inserted at the beginning of the sugar cycle. They allowed the operation of this cycle, which later transpires into the southern hemisphere. But it is the beginning of this cycle that has given the great development of the levadas that are still useful today. It is extraordinary to see how, over such a multi-sectoral period, one can find a historical constant, and it has a very evident importance here. In addition to what is the reading of tourist knowledge, pride of another form of socalk, the singularity of an island, I believe that it is well, from the point of view of our natural culture, to find a way to twine the Lauriessilva forest with those taken. We therefore give all our support and say, once again, that when we can be in cooperation, defend the values of regional autonomy, but also defend the values of the Republic, surely we will always find out that Madeira is not only a "garden", it has laurissilva forest, it has taken... It is not only a "garden", it has many other things. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u251	But it is, above all, a garden!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u252	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u253	Madam President, I have signed up just to make a final finish and perhaps to share with the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, when the collective of The Greens of Madeira addressed the challenge to this Parliamentary Group for the presentation of this draft resolution aimed at supporting the candidature of Madeira's leadership to the heritage of humanity, we did not even look back. In fact, because of the proposal made by the Greens of Madeira to the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens', it became very visible the meaning that these ones have for the region and its people. As was well remembered here, we consider that the classification of these taken as the heritage of humanity is perhaps the best way to honor the work, the tenacity, the clairvoyance of the people of Madeira and of all who have contributed to their construction, in which some have lost their lives. Even in the end, I would say, Madam President, that at a time when courage is perhaps the greatest need for the Portuguese people, this tribute makes all the sense. That is why the Greens' appeal is, in fact, to unite all efforts to classify Madeira's levadas as the heritage of humanity. I would also like to acknowledge here the fair words that all the parliamentary groups have spoken about Madeira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u254	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolution No 1240 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), we will consider petition No 415 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Platform Association of Fathers for Inclusion, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to allow the inclusion of all students with special educational needs ( NEE) and / or disability in the Portuguese educational system and the repeal of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 ), together with draft resolutions No 1233 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Implementation of the recommendations of the National Education Council on the legal framework for special education ( BE ), 1235 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — In defense of inclusive public school for all ( PCP ), 1237 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the revision of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 11 September, ensuring the continuity of the school course in secondary education for students with special educational needs ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1238 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 7 January, in particular with regard to the composition of classes, the distribution of the hourly burden between school and institution and the impact of its premises on the effective integration of pupils into post-school life ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to welcome the citizen initiative of the Platform Associations of Fathers for Inclusion. They bring us a pressing problem, they have already discussed it in the Education Commission, we have echoed everywhere, which is the fact that this Ordinance No. 275 -A / 2012 provides for a system of monitoring students and students with special educational needs that makes an experiential pedagogical discontinuity in relation to what was the previous route and route. The course and the previous route of students and students with special educational needs is already complicated, it is another matter, but what happens is that, in relation to a 25-hour curriculum, only five hours are guaranteed in regular school and this creates a complete disadaptation in relation to the school environment, the educational community and the possibilities and potential of these students and students, in addition to a series of additional difficulties that are placed here. We understand — and I believe that there is consensus on this — that the Ordinance should be exceeded, must be put back, we cannot continue with this existence, because, if the pretext for increasing and extending compulsory education creates conditions of discrimination and does not favor inclusion, the extension of compulsory education is itself dual, it is itself against a part of the students of our educational system, when it should be in favour of the inclusion of all. The Block of Left takes advantage of this moment, which is a rare moment in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic to present initiatives on special education, to present a draft resolution wider than the revision of this Ordinance, which is not relevant, which is overcome and exceeded, in order to request the support of the generality of the benches to those which were the recommendations of the National Council of Education on Special Education, in particular the revision of the remaining legislation which today frames all aspects of pedagogical, organisational, management, on special education, because they manifest, in many circumstances, basic deficiencies. Both Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008 and other diplomas have been undergoing a set of changes that we should look into and promote inclusion, because what we suspect is or may be in the forge of the Ministry of Education and which comes in the outcome of the working group of the Ministry of Education is no longer inclusion, it is more discrimination. Let's hope not! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u256	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP I greet the Platform-Associations of Fathers for Inclusion, here present, the dynamizer of this petition, and all subscribers, valuing the brave struggles that parents, teachers, professionals, educational communities have waged for the repeal of an unfair and discriminatory door of thousands of children and young people and for the defense of inclusive public school and for all. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the PSD/CDS Government responded with Portaria No. 275 -A / 2012, imposing on students with special needs a 25 hour school curriculum, of which 20 are passed in special education institutions and only 5 in public school. The impact of its application was immediate and discriminatory. As soon as December 2013, the CFP proposed the repeal of this Ordinance and at present PS, PSD and CDS rejected this proposal, stating that the Government would resolve the problem. Until today, nothing! The maintenance of this Ordinance meant profound damage, some irrecoverable, to hundreds of young people, but it was a key piece to cut into public school. Since 2011 more than 50 million euros have been cut only in special education, with consequences in terms of the decrease in number and quality of the support provided. For the CFP, the extension of compulsory education cannot mean the exclusion and devaluation of the pedagogical quality and the inclusive course of these young people. This diploma is a step backwards in guaranteeing the equality and rights of these young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the school that must adapt to the diversity and needs of its students, not by segregating them, but by creating the necessary conditions for the existence of an inclusive environment for all. This imposes a profound reform in the education system and measures that guarantee all means of achieving it, which has been contrary to the options of successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, which are going through an increasing investment in public school. With this Ordinance, the reduction in the number of special education teachers, the non-contracting of technicians and other professionals required, the non-compliance of the number of students per class (by placing 3, 4 and 5 students with special needs in each class) and the denial of specific evaluation processes, the PSD/CDS Government is directly responsible for the discrimination of thousands of children and young people and for the degradation of their pedagogical and inclusive process. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Inclusive education means that all children and young people, regardless of their characteristics, origins and conditions, can learn together in public school in their communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u261	The right to education, a fundamental human right, must be guaranteed on equal opportunities and respond to the educational needs of everyone. the State must assume its responsibility and carry out the necessary investments, as well as ensure the conditions for its compliance. For the PCP, there is no other solution than the repeal of this Ordinance. Only its revocation, the urgent recruitment of all teachers, employees, therapists, psychologists and other professionals required to respond to the effective needs of schools will meet the rights of all children and young people, in the light of international diplomas signed by the Portuguese State, the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u262	Mr Margarida Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I address my first words of greeting to the petitioners, as well as other associations in the area of special education and all the parents they represent, in defense of the social inclusion of all students with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u264	Of course! The worst one's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u265	Application No 415 / XII ( 3. a ), which we are debating today in this plenary, aims at the repeal of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012, because the parents consider that this is a backwardness in the concept of inclusive school, conditioning the learning and professionalization of many of these young people. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The extension of compulsory education up to 12. the year of education for all students, including students with special educational needs, placed new challenges to schools with secondary education, with regard to these students, especially in the development of specific curricula and the resizing of educational and educational responses for students with special educational needs, and in this context emerged the Portaria. However, it is the understanding of the parliamentary groups and other entities that their application has not produced the desired effects. In particular, because the difficulties of its implementation by schools and resource centres for inclusion were evident, insofar as it presents a prescriptive and mandatory matrix, in particular with regard to disciplinary areas, their hourly loads and the responsibilities of the training institutions, thus finding their ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u266	That's all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u267	It is therefore essential to ensure that the principles of inclusive education are being respected and that the transition to secondary education of students with special educational needs does not represent a discontinuity to their school course. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is public that the Ministry of Education has devoted particular attention to special education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u268	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u269	... just as this House, the Assembly of the Republic, has been particularly committed to monitoring and attention regarding students with special educational needs, families and partners who are at the service of education and development of children with special needs. In view of the above, we argue that it is necessary to simplify the legislation in force, harmonizing the regulatory framework for special education, including the revision of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u270	In what way? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u271	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and CDS-PP Parliamentary Groups today present a draft resolution recommending that the Government review this Ordinance so as to ensure the necessary flexibility in the adaptations of school courses, in secondary education, of students with special educational needs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u272	Also for an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Platform-Associations of Fathers for Inclusion and all the subscribers of this petition, which have been heard several times by both the working group of the Government and the National Council of Education, specifically on this and other matters. This draft resolution we present follows the petition signed by the Parent Platform-Associations for Inclusion and we recommend to the Government to amend the Ordinance establishing the procedures of the education system to respond to the extension of compulsory education for students with special educational needs. This diploma is three years old and these three years have been sufficient to see that it is inadequate both the reality of schools and the needs of families. Not only the working group appointed by the Government reached this same conclusion, but also the CNE decided in the same direction, in response to a deliberations by the Assembly of the Republic of the majority initiative. That is to say, it is consensual that this Ordinance is not only appropriate, nor is it not fulfilled, leaving, therefore, a legislative vacuum, in practice, with regard to students with special educational needs who attend secondary education, which are thus unprotected. It is in our view that it should be altered and, consequently, repealed. There are two principles in this diploma which, in our view, do not serve the interests of these students: the first has to do with ignoring families in the process of defining their children's school course and the second is about the lack of flexibility. This lack of flexibility results in the deresponsibility of the school in the leadership of the process and the inclusion of the student, reduces the range of curricular and vocational alternatives and creates a gap between the labour market and the educational supply for these students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, the student population with special educational needs has increased sharply due to the expansion of compulsory education and also to greater awareness of the educational community, teachers, health professionals and families to signal these students. And I'm glad you did. The result of this increase is that today we have a great diversity of students in schools, with various types of educational, temporary and permanent needs, with greater or less autonomy and with different levels of demand in the preparation for the labour market. To respond to this increase and to the new requirements we believe that the principle must be the same as it has been followed so far by the education system, i.e. to integrate all these students and give them adequate answers to their needs, diverse, varied and personal. The analysis is already done, this majority has already done so, and we know that it is not only with more means that these objectives can be achieved. It is necessary to review much of the legislation so that responses can be varied and flexible, that health institutions will have a relevant responsibility in special education, that the social sector assumes a complementary but essential role and that all students, from those who have learning difficulties to those with cognitive disabilities and others can find in the system all responses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u274	The model that began with Decree-Law No. 3/2008 is now insufficient. The Government has therefore committed itself to reviewing legislation, procedures and improving the access of students with special educational needs. It is a fact that this process has been longer than it would be desirable, but it is also a fact that on the basis of delay there is a deep analysis of what is right and what needs to be improved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u275	What we are recommending to the Government today is that, in this legislative review, consider these concerns, listen to the families and review this Ordinance, and that this amendment be the first of all that has to be done to come into force in the coming academic year. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u276	Even for an intervention, Mrs. Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I begin by greeting the petitioners, the Fathers Platform for Inclusion. I congratulate them for the relevance of the matter they have brought to this Parliament, in defense of students with special educational needs. in the last two decades, public policies in special education have been marked in a very relevant way by the recommendations contained in the Salamanca Declaration, that Portugal is one of the subscribers, and by the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Portuguese State in 2006. On this subject, we have seen public policies that always set forth inclusive education as a principle and, in the last three years, we have seen that the government has repeatedly reduced the resources, the means made available to the school, thus degrading the conditions under which the education of students with special educational needs is carried out. The lack of funding has already led to the closure of special education schools; the late and insufficient placement of specialized technicians, teachers and operational assistants; the lack of material resources has led to the delay in providing support services, which brings into question inclusive education. The extension of compulsory education has put, in this framework, a new challenge to school, access and frequency of students on equal terms. at the same time, it called on the school to play a central role in the construction of responses that are appropriate to the specificities of the students and to the satisfaction of the needs of each one, particularly in their transition to active life. Now, the rules that the Government has published on this subject — the 275 – A / 2012 – are a stark retreat in public policies to promote education for all and to build an inclusive society. This and other diplomas in special education were, at the request of the Assembly of the Republic, the subject of a set of recommendations issued by the National Council of Education last July, but so far had no impact on the Ministry of Education. Also, the conclusions of the working group set up by the Ministry itself did not see continuity, even when the Ministry of Education announces the delivery of the proposed revision of the regulatory framework for special education until December. It is now the turn of the majority parliamentary groups to recover these recommendations and to remind the Government of the need for revision of the Ordinance. Let's wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is success in these recommendations. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns of the Parent Platform-Associations for Inclusion, reiterates the need for legislative changes in special education, especially since Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, after seven years of application, needs to be reviewed, and presents a draft resolution that points to the need for the reduction of the number of students per class, when it includes students with special educational needs and the strengthening of the responsibility of the school in effective integration of students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u278	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u279	Madam President: Although you have spoken here about Decree-Law No. 3/2008 and various legislation, the draft resolution presented by the majority is limited to Ordinance No. 275 -A / 2012. What I would like to suggest, even to the parties of the majority — they can do so by tomorrow, which is the time for the regimental vote of draft resolutions subject to assessment — was that they would carry out a little more what they mean by flexibility, by revoking the door, i.e. that they would explain what they intend to carry out in a few points, until, if they were giving a more advanced signal to the government, we would probably shorten some time and some of the political conditions to take a step forward and create a situation that is not discriminatory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-05.u280	That concludes this fifth and last point of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: joint debate, in general, on the proposals for lein. 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant, 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with the measures imposed, transposing Council Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JAI of 23 October 2009 and 274 / XII of 4. ( a ) — establishes the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification by transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August 2009. The second item on the agenda is the general discussion of Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August establishing the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police bodies, and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Law on the Organisation of Criminal Investigation. The third point will be completed with the discussion of petition No 313 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers, protesting against the privatization of TTCs. of the fourth and last points, to which no time has been allocated for debate, are set out in motions for resolutions 96 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Tunisia for Defence Cooperation, signed on 18 January 2013 in Tunis, and 100 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization, which was adopted in 2007 in 17. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 521 ( XVII ) ), held in Cartagena of India. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours.]]
