ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Government and of the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen who take their places. Mrs. Members, let us continue the debate on the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. The Bureau intends to conclude the debate during the morning, leaving the closing of the debate and the vote in the afternoon. For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are those who went to vote on October 4, believing that the overtax would be returned and that the tax board would be compensated. In the promise of a growing economy, there are those who have found redemption from the sacrifices they have suffered. Some have thought that the asphyxiation of public school or SNS would now be compensated with a finally controlled deficit. That is why it is not surprising that the right, so committed to repeating to exhaustion the theory of the illegitimateness of the Government, as if the elected Members and Members of Parliament did not all have the same legitimacy in the creation of government solutions, and that so much spoke of illegitimacy in this debate, did not yet find a second to speak of the electoral fraud that was their campaign. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] There is no word on the supertax, which is not, after all, returned. It was all a lie! There is nothing about the stagnant economy and there is no means of unemployment coming down, after all the announcements of recovery which, after all, did not arrive and of all the sacrifices they imposed! Nothing more about a failure of the deficit target, about the continuing problems of the financial system, about the debt, which tripled, after all that made the country pass! to the Block of Left the numbers that have come to the public are not surprising, we said it from the very beginning: propaganda and lies! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The public and official confirmation of what was obviously not quiet us, we do not like bad news for the country, even when they give us reason—but it is more a demonstration of the absolute need for a solution of government that goes far away from PSD and CDS and that can stop the impoverishment of the country. Get them out of there! "Get us out of there" was the requirement of a country that was sick of being deceived and that did not bear any more impoverishment, and it was this requirement that we answered! The agreement that was possible to establish for a majority solution that impedes impoverishment is not based only on the removal of the right, which was no longer a small thing. It is based on concrete commitments to rebuild labour rights, recover wages and pensions, protect the social state, stop privatization. The commitment of the Left Block, in creating this solution, will be the same so that it will succeed from today. Without ambiguities, but also without transitions, we will guarantee compliance with the agreement to prevent impoverishment. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] And in the same frank way that we participate in the construction of this solution and with the same commitment that we will defend it every day, we also commit ourselves not to abdicating our programme. To do so would be to abandon the force that allowed this agreement. It was the one who voted for the change, who with his vote reinforced the Left Block, which caused the change of the relationship of forces in Parliament and opened up doors to hope that it would fuel the commitment that a programme supports to stop impoverishment. It is on behalf of the compromise we have made with each of these people, although it has not been possible to find convergence on proposals that are essential for the Left Block, which is only natural in view of the far-reaching positions of the Socialist Party on these matters, which we continue to defend the need to ensure the access of all unemployed to the social unemployment benefit, to converge lower social pensions with the national minimum wage, to significantly increase the investment capacity, both public and private, to create jobs. We know, and we have always said, that this path requires a process of restructuring public debt, which stops the bleeding of resources out of the country and brings a minimum of justice to the economy. In fact, even without an income and investment recovery programme, debt restructuring seems to us an inevitable path. The burden of debt on the Portuguese economy is unsustainable. It ignores that it would be irresponsible and that is why we will commit ourselves to the study of concrete solutions for the sustainability of Portuguese external debt, an essential condition of sovereignty and the development of the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] in the same way, the financial system remains a risk to the country that we cannot ignore. And when you know of the difficulties of Banif and the New Bank, the priority must be not even to repeat the mistakes of the past. Yesterday the Left Block, through Deputy Mariana Mortágua, questioned the Minister of Finance Mário Centeno on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u3	And the answer was beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u4	The Government cannot hide in Banco de Portugal, nor can Banco de Portugal continue to submit more and more heavy invoices to Portuguese taxpayers. See the right-wing privatization minister now hired by Banco de Portugal, see Sérgio Monteiro presenting restructuring projects of the New Bank in Brussels, which, here, nobody knows, reminds too much of the past to give guarantees for the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]] One thing is certain: with the same determination that we will defend a government capable of halting poverty we demand a clear accountability on the financial system and the intransigent defense of the interests of the state and public record, against a bank and a regulator who have failed too often. It denies the right to want to see in this statement any ambiguity of the Left Block, in view of our commitment to the Socialist Party and the whole country. [[Rice from some PSD Members.]] Refusing to hide problems is not a source of political instability; hiding them, as always did the right, is that it brought permanent instability to people's lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The change of policy also goes this way. To follow a new path, able to break with the impoverishment to which the right has subjected the country and that responds to the hope of a whole country in a more dignified future, requires both commitment and clarity. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u5	by order of inscriptions, it would now be the turn of the CDS to intervene, but, as Mr. Member of the registered CDS is not present, I give the floor to the PCP. Thus, if the PCP does not mind intervening now, before the CDS-PP...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u6	No, Mr. President. No problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u7	Then you have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u8	Mr President, there is always a communist response to the CDS' shortcomings, don't worry. [[Applause and laughter from the PCP, the PS and the BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 22 days after rejecting the Government's programme with which the PSD and CDS presented themselves to the Assembly of the Republic without conditions to govern, we have now discussed the Government's programme which Mr President of the Republic had from the outset, by indication of the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, but which refused to impose until it remained an alternative, as he himself acknowledged. Comparing the speech of the PSD and CDS 22 days ago with this debate may seem to be all in the same, but the truth is that it is not, much has happened in these 22 days. The PSD and CDS government, chaired by the President of the Republic, was dismissed by the Assembly of the Republic, as it had already been announced that it would happen before taking possession. Despite his resignation, this PSD/CDS government intended to violate the Constitution for the last time by disregarding the limits imposed on a government in management functions, taking a new step in the TAP sales negotiation. We also attended in full PSD/CDS consulate and with the participation of its political representatives in the occupation of the House of Douro using force, with the tearing of locks, expulsion from those who were in the building and the delivery of it to whom PSD and CDS had already designated as beneficiaries of the sack. All carried out using the abuse of authority to consume the withdrawal of the House of Douro to the Duronian wine growers and their delivery to the large exporting houses without any knowledge of what would have happened in the meantime to the very valuable heritage deposited there. Banif was also confirmed, however, as a concern that weighs on the Portuguese head. Four times the CFP questioned the former Minister for Coelho in the Assembly of the Republic on the situation of Banif ; four times were given answers indicating the Bank's compliance with the obligations assumed before the Portuguese State. It was necessary to resign the PSD/CDS government to find out that the Bank will not return the EUR 1100 million of the Portuguese that PSD and CDS buried there, only to know who will answer for it. in another plan, the INE data, however, confirmed the falsity of PSD and CDS propaganda on economic growth, unemployment and the overtax of IRS, whose refund of 35 %, announced by the PSD and CDS in election time, was confirmed as a monumental electoral fraud, and there was, after all, no place for any return. The budgetary implementation data have also been misleading all the promises made by the PSD and CDS, regarding the 2015 deficit, confirming that the only goal that the previous PSD/CDS government has achieved was to fail all the economic and budgetary forecasts for four years, without ever giving account for the fate given to the billions of euros that extort from the sacrifices imposed on Portuguese on the name of these failed targets. Now, in the face of the seriousness of the problems that affect the country, in the face of the need to clear up the responsibilities of those who have taken these decisions and take measures to respond to the difficulties that the country faces, PSD and CDS only repeat, in this debate, the same fate of its false victory in the elections and of its divine right to govern. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, on 10 November, had the opportunity to confirm that what they obtained in the last elections was a heavy electoral defeat. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is a question of arithmetic: 107 are less than 122. Having said otherwise, before, the two — PSD and CDS — could more than all others, in this House of the Republic; now, the two can more than one, but they can not more than four. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] If you want, even more clearly: by comparing the Assembly of the Republic that we have today and that we had before the elections of 4 October, what were the only political forces that lost votes and percentages in the last elections? PSD and CDS! What are the only political forces represented here that have lost Members? PSD and CDS! What were the only political forces who saw their parliamentary expression reduced, losing most of what they had? PSD and CDS! If PSD and CDS were the only ones to lose, they can't keep saying they won the elections. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] And, above all, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS may not wish to impose the will of 107 Members to another 122, as if this corresponded to any rule of democracy. The popular will expressed in the elections does not give your 107 Members the possibility of imposing on the other 122 your claim to govern. The popular will expressed in the last elections composed this Assembly of the Republic so that there were a majority of Members who reject the continuation of the PSD/CDS Government and who created conditions for a different governmental solution, with a PS Government. To insist on the the thesis of the illegitimateness of any governmental solution that does not go through a government of the PSD and the CDS is to insist on disrespecting popular will. the PSD and CDS may seem incomprehensible to have to stop ruling, but the millions of Portuguese who fought and did everything they could to defeat you, including the 700 000 Portuguese who stopped voting on the PSD and the CDS, because they no longer wanted you in the government, these millions of Portuguese who wanted to get rid of the PSD/CDS government that cannot be wasted, and that is why PSD and CDS should comply once and for all. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : PSD and CDS have preferred to entertain themselves to discover what has never been hidden. They are surprised with differences and divergences between the PCP and PS that are not today, and have never been hidden, and seek to concentrate all media attention on secondary aspects that will last as long as the promise they made to return the overtax. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u9	Even so, we have already had in this debate, in interventions by the PSD and the CDS, a sample of the vision that we would have as a future, if both continue to govern. Both PSD and CDS criticize the recovery measures of income, wages and pensions, because they allow for increased consumption and this is wrong, in abstract terms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the increase in consumption that may result from the recovery of income that is in perspective is not the increase in consumption that you have promoted and that has resulted in the increase in the sale of luxury products, particularly luxury cars, in years of crisis. The reality is different! in the country, which you no longer govern, your policies leave more than one in four Portuguese in poverty, in a total of nearly 3 million poor. Worse than that: there is one in four Portuguese people who are in material deprivation, which means that they have no money to keep the house warm, to eat a two-day meal of meat or fish, which has rents, credit benefits or late residence expenses, which, due to economic difficulties, does not have a telephone, television or washing machine. And in children, the percentage in situations of material deprivation rises to almost 30 %. To these millions of Portuguese, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it is necessary to return income and increase consumption capacity because it is lack of consumption of essential goods that suffer. [[Applause from the PCP and the MEP from BE Isabel Pires.]] And for all the other Portuguese who, living from their work, also have the prospect of increasing their income, this does not correspond to a wrong political option, it corresponds to the replacement of what you wanted to ultimately steal from the Portuguese, which is the prospect that it is possible to defeat your policy of exploitation and impoverishment and improve the living conditions of the people. At the same time, PSD and CDS insist on repeating the question with which they have sought to condition all the reasoning and all the political discussion over the past four years: "Where are they going to cut in order to be able to return income and rights? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have to see ourselves free of this, too. This logic that it is only possible to return to workers, pensioners, young people, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs their incomes and rights by cutting them, in the same proportion, other incomes or rights is the logic with which PSD and CDS have sunk the country and turned Portuguese against each other. It is true that choices have to be made, it is true that choices have to be made for the workers and the people, that you have been so concerned about harming and whose living conditions have deepened in this way. But it is true that many of these problems will find a response not in new cuts or alternative cuts but in the recovery of the country, in the recovery of productive sectors, to solve the problem of unemployment, in the recovery of wages, pensions, social benefits, to solve the problem of poverty, in the recovery of access to health, education, social security, in order to solve the problems of exclusion that you have turned into rule in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u10	Talk! It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the PSD/CDS government, which was presented here 22 days ago, it would not be possible to recognise that the policies of the previous government were wrong, much less it would be possible to take the first steps to respond to the urgent problems of the people and the country. The PS Government Programme, which we are discussing here, is not the CFP programme, but incorporates matters resulting from the discussion made and from the convergence that was possible to identify to respond to the most urgent problems of Portuguese, employment, wages and incomes, pensions and social benefits, rights, social functions of the State and public services, including health, education, social security and culture. The scope of this convergence cannot be devalued, as if it had no meaning and as if it had no concrete translation in the issues already referred to yesterday, and even repeated today, of wages and pensions, of 35 hours of work, of combating precariousness, of reducing over-tax and other fiscal measures to be adopted, of the allocation of the National Health Service of human resources, technical and financial resources appropriate to the provision of quality health care, of strengthening the conditions of access to education, the development of science, of access to social protection policy that this PSD / CDS government, which by October 4 held an absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic, denied millions of Portuguese. It is true that this Government of the Socialist Party will have to face the contradiction between the propaganda of the former PSD/CDS Government and the national reality, as well as the contradiction between the achievement of the objectives enshrined in its Programme and the framework of difficulties and constraints, internal and external, which are placed in the country. This is because, contrary to what the PSD and CDS propaganda claims, Portugal is today marked by deeper economic and social problems than those it faced in 2011 and they were already of great gravity. The increase in external debt and budgetary suffocation caused by the burden of public debt service are only the most flagrant example of the constraints placed on the country and that this government will have to face, in response to the problems that the country and the people still feel. But also the worsening external dependence and the control of national decision-making centres by foreign capital, particularly in enterprises and strategic sectors, which this PSD and CDS government have emphasized, are problems that will obviously have to be identified and addressed in order to respond to the country's structural problems. It is true that this Government programme does not correspond to the CFP programme, but, as it was said yesterday, here we will be to contribute to this policy change, so that the situation that the people and the workers face can be changed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u12	You're gonna stay in the photo, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u13	... and so that the recovery of rights and advances in the working and living conditions of the Portuguese can arrive in time, contrary to the interventions of the CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u14	Mr. João Oliveira, the Bureau does not register entries to request clarifications. Now, yes, for an intervention, Mr Paulo Portas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u15	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister — comma — but not the Prime Minister that the people have chosen,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests, having some Members beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the members of the Government. I wish you good work and good luck. It is immense that separates us from you. However, Portugal is the country of all of us and it is to think of the best interest of Portugal that I respect you. It is a greeting to those who sit on the bench of the Members, where, democratically, the people elected us to be, it is also a greeting to those who sit on the bench of the Government, where the people, when they voted, did not place you. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I begin with the unusual comma I mentioned in addressing the Prime Minister. I did, because there is a set of southern truths that precede this debate and condition its outcome. Dr António Costa is the first Head of Government — who is — who has lost the elections. Here's a strange watermark! Dr. António Costa is even the only socialist militant who can be said to arrive the Prime Minister without political legitimacy to be. [[PS protests.]] He won the primary elections in which the PS had expressly chosen his candidate for Prime Minister, but he utterly lost the general elections in which the Portuguese chose the Prime Minister they wanted. This is an uncomfortable certificate of birth! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] Dr. António Costa is still the first case, in democracy, of a politician who had to be a strong prime minister in order to be able to aspire to remain the leader of his party. [[PS protests.]] Usually, the reverse happens: in democracy, politicians apply to party leaders to be able to aspire to be prime minister. This is the unsustainable lightness of the procedure! Dr. António Costa also has another title: he is only Prime Minister, because, not having the people voted in him, he is the President of the Republic constitutionally prevented from calling the people again. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u16	If they won the elections, why aren't they government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u17	This means that the Prime Minister is for abuse and benefit of a popular interval. That is what defines an essential precariousness! Finally, from Dr. António Costa you can always say that the purposes justified the means. Counting the votes, he refused to be part of a major majority. It was not enough for him to be loyal, influential and even decisive leader of a relative majority opposition, to declare, euphoricly, to have a parliamentary majority, and we all know that this is only and while the Communist Party’s polytburo understands that it must be and until it understands what it must be. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u18	It is the 'Dad'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u19	Ah! Now it's the polytburo!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u20	There's an update: now they're bothering the polytburo! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The Block is already on Dr. António Costa's lapel. It is the will of the Communist Party that will decide the fate of the Government of Portugal. This is what we have reached or is the state of art, by the sole decision and guidance of the Prime Minister! To say that the government does not present a motion of confidence, because it trusts, is a statement that only time will validate. On a provisional basis, what we know is that the government has decided not to challenge the elements by submitting a motion of confidence. in the functioning of our system, in the absence of a motion of confidence, only a motion of rejection allows a clarifier vote. If there were neither, this debate would be strangely unconcluded. It would be a kind of dissolution of legitimacy that bothers you so much; it would be a friendly, incomprehensible departure in a country that Mr. Prime Minister has so deeply divided. Well, I know you would want our mole, in any case, to deal with our loyal and frontal firmness. You will say that you have won the vote, and so it will often happen. It's life! But what we will say is transparent, democratic and perhaps more definitive. They will, in your favour, be raised-CL - those who will support it. They are chosen today, their BFF, best friends forever. [[Laughing.]] [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Catarina, best friend of Antonio ; António, best friend of Jerome ; Jerome - only this is not new - best friend of Heloísa. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] With them he has chosen to rule; in them he will lean; in them he will stumble. Depending on them, it will stay or fall. It's life! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We are not part of a film, whose argument the people did not search and whose artifact the Nation did not validate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was marked by a sentence, a mistake, a promise and an unknown one. Something seems necessary to say about all this. The phrase: what a sad start that of the Minister of Finance when he came here yesterday said that the clean exit from Portugal had been a small result. I don't feel criticized, as former governor, I feel insulted as Portuguese! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] No, Dr. Mário Centeno! ‘Clean exit’ means that we left you, in legacy, not having the troika in here. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] No, Dr. Mário Centeno! It is not "small result" to overcome the great bankruptcy, which was the legacy you left us! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Signs of the times: there really is a new PS around here. At the time, the then leader of the Socialist Party was another and expressly defended the clean exit of Portugal. Now you arrive and you say something that, one, two, or you want a second ransom, or you admit to coming and asking for it. Worse the amendment than the sonnet! Correct, while it's time, that unfortunate phrase. There is no second occasion to make a good first impression. [[Representatives of the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] I admit it was involuntary, but correct that sentence, because when you say so, you insulted those who paid in cuts, taxes, unemployment, deprivations, trials, life-lasting projects... [[PCP protests.]] ...the huge, I repeat, the huge irresponsibility of 2011! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] This debate is also marked by the confirmation of a mistake: of what we know so far, it became only clear what the Socialist Party decided to give, in leasing, to the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u21	Again? Oh, my God! That turned fixation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u22	He gave up education policy to FENPROF. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u23	Trade unions are respectable, but education policy is first of all for families, young people, children and national interests. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is perplexing that the Socialist Party revises its history and considers that it is not correct to have a proof in 4. the year, whose validity for the transition is only partial. It is even more perplexing that the Socialist Party considers that it is not necessary to measure knowledge in order to hold the very important title in society as a teacher.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u24	That's why you took the course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u25	I hope, Prime Minister, that the Socialist Party will not invade this strange dichotomy of the Left Block, according to which it cannot be happy and demanding, and that the requirement is contrary to happiness. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The requirement is even the condition of the ability to win in life, in a competitive economy and in a global world. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It's also confirmed... [[But?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u26	... that the Prime Minister has decided to grant the CGTP-Interunional the public sector of metropolitan transport. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u28	Mrs. Members, only VV. They do not realize that the CGTP uses public transport companies, particularly in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, to kidnap policies legitimately voted by the people in elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u30	...to paralyze the economy, organize cascade strikes... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u31	...and transform the lives of citizens and families, whatever their orientation, into hell! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] Why is it that in Portuguese cities, governed on the left or right, when urban transport is granted, there are not so many strikes and compliance with schedules is a relevant duty for users to be able to trust companies? [[PCP protests.]] You want state companies to be able to threaten their management on the street, disorganize the economy and disorganize the lives of families! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from PS, BE and PCP, hitting hands on benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u32	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u33	It's in your DNA! It's not in the institutions, it's in the street that the vanguards say! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It was also explicit in this debate, although, to be fair, the answer... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard you! In here it's an institution, it's not a street fag! [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has also been explicit, although to be fair the Government's response has been at least ambiguous, which, with regard to the schedules, so necessary to the Portuguese Communist Party, so necessary to those who have a strictly corporate vision of our economy—and I refer to the buckets, essential to the Communist Party, and to the reform of the House of Douro, finally withdrawing from the situation of institutional and financial insanity... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... and returned to whom, legitimately, for her may be interested—,... [[PCP protests.]] ...what, for you, is normal, what is legitimate, what is expectable is to summarize reforms. We will see what the government does, if at the service of the economy, if at the service of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This debate was also marked by the response that the Prime Minister gave, according to which, in the next 29 days, he will seek the deficit of the Portuguese State in 2015 to fall below 3 %. We will also be paying attention in the next 29 days, because it is in the hands of the government to meet this deficit. And it will be a sign of state sense that they can place the importance for Portugal for the first time from the single currency to have a deficit of less than 3 %; the importance for our economy than this can represent in terms of international ratings; the importance for Portugal of what this can mean as a country, of which it is a country capable of solving the problems and which does not, eternally, return to the same problems. We will, of course, be attentive to the phrase that you have left here and that has seemed like a compromise. You'll see in the next 29 days. We'll see you in the next 29 days. Portugal should have a deficit of less than 3 % because this is a critical condition of our credibility, the attractiveness of investment and access to the rules of flexibility of the European Union. In this debate, it was also an unknown one, which has to do with economic policy, the focus of the speech of all political forces in the last election campaign. Let's start by clarifying that. There are, in this House, those of austerity and anti-austerity. [[There, there!]] [[There, there!]] [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u35	Mr. President, from here on, I have to ask you to untie me the time of noise... [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u36	I'm asking the ladies. Members, especially those sitting on the left side of the Chamber, to avoid interrupting the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u37	They won't let me talk, but I've heard the noise silently. Continuation of PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u38	You've spoken, you've spoken with a great silence. I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u39	Mr. President... [[Continuation of PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent so that the speaker can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u41	in this chamber, there are not those who are austerity and those who are against austerity. I remind the Members of the Socialist Party that austerity has become inevitable because of a ransom, that whoever asked for this ransom was your government, that whoever subscribed to the Memorandum where it stated it was your government, who brought the recession to it ally was your government. Therefore, to pretend to defend, childishly, that some are austerity and others are against austerity is not to provide a service to the truth, nor to the transparent information that citizens deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u43	What is there in this House is a difference between those who want to gradually remove austerity measures, returning income that is fully deserved and maintaining budgetary caution, i.e. the deficit below 3 %, so that all this is viable and definitive, and those who give in to a more illusory temptation, perhaps, electoralist, to want to do everything one day without, with the other hand, ensuring that they will have budgetary caution, without which the reversals will only eventually turn against their potential beneficiaries. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Also in this Chamber there are not those who want growth and those who do not want growth. Moreover, we are in charge of a recession and what we leave you is a growing economy that can grow more — and needs to grow more. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u44	Perhaps they will not have realized that what is at issue here is not a matter between right and left, it is a matter between short, medium and long term.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u46	There is a policy, which is yours, almost exclusively based on what you call 'consumption shock'. We all know that it can have a provisional consequence, but that is not the structural path of a sustainable economy. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Your Programme, and even listening to the Minister of Economy, is very unclear about the investment pillar and is very little explicit about the export pillar. And only an economic model based on investment, exports and the proportion of consumption that is relevant can guarantee Portugal sustained growth, not in the next year, but in the next decade. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The essential value for this growth to be possible is called « confidence ». So far, your economic policy seems like a Russian mountain. by announcing instability, even before the elections, they did not contribute to any investor to trust. by producing the maneuver of the alliance with radical parties that legitimately do not want Portugal in the euro or admit the exit of Portugal from the European Union caused a fall of confidence. Your first duty is to restore, internally and externally, confidence so that Portugal can grow. I hope you're able to do that. [[On your feet, applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u47	Since the Bureau did not register requests for clarification, Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's programme presents contributions relevant to the current time of Portuguese society, with an inversion of the worsening of inadequate economic and social restrictions, with the concern of the non-deterioration of the social state and an inversion of the logic of the country's impoverishment, which has led to an exponential increase in emigration in recent years. Still, and in the line of the paradigm that has been in force, the measures that limit the negative impacts on our common good, nature, and we can give as an example the maintenance of oil exploration on the Algarve and Alentejan coasts or the very worrying issues related to the possible construction of new dams, which are not necessary, because the goals of the National Barrage Plan are already met. by safeguarding this natural heritage we will beat ourselves. The NAP also highlights the concern about welfare and animal protection and is pleased to see that we are again reflected in the documents of those who propose to address Portugal issues that until very recently were outside the government agenda. With small steps, great changes are made and we are pleased to feel that the work of thousands of citizens, hundreds of associations and the NAP is promoting these changes and is receiving the welcome deserved. Human beings have been able to organize and complexize their social organization through the different institutions created. Among them is the school. The school should not only be the area of acquisition of competences that each person will subsequently apply in his or her work, a piece of fitting logic in mechanical gear, in which each individual has only his or her default place in the company machine. The school must be more than that and should not be restricted to promoting the ability to debit formal knowledge. The school in the 21st century, in addition to being the place of learning, of awareness, of transformation, of progress, of evolution, of critical thinking, of questioning and the creation of socially active beings, should enable us to develop, perhaps more important than everything else said, the creative capacity that enables us, at every moment, to reinvent the future without being gripped with anachronic conceptions. Other school models are required, expected. This new school should be able to instill in each one the notion that it is part of a whole, that its actions have consequences and that it is no longer possible to defend anthropocentrism, and everyone must ultimately admit that human being is not the measure of all things. This new school should be able to develop the individual consciousness and ability to think about its place in this great ecosystem, which is planet Earth, our common home. The future builds today. And the present moment of Western societies, and also of Portuguese society, foresees an aggravation of the scourge of unemployment, which will not be eradicated in the light of the thinking of the 20th century and which, quite the contrary, will increase. Today, with the technological capacity we have, the satisfaction of basic individual needs is simpler than it appears, we just have to learn the true meaning of solidarity, sharing and common goods on the planet. To solve the problems of now we all need to think about the future, realizing that solutions cannot be based on models that have already been successful in their time. For this future now built, we will have to rethink the way we, human beings, live in our societies. We live an age of abundance, but in Portugal half of the population lives below the poverty threshold, if they do not have any kind of social support. We have about a third of the children at risk of poverty, mortgageting, from now on, considerable part of their potential and, with it, part of our potential as a society. It is important to reflect on how we have come here, but, above all, to think if we want this society where more and more people, animals and ecosystems are subjected to continuous and interconnected oppression. Through this transition plan, the NAP is here to build, with all of you, a more just and balanced society, where we can all live more harmoniously. It's not a utopia, another world is possible! [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u49	Thank you, Mr President, for your exemplary compliance with the rules on timing of interventions. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u50	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a member of the XXI Constitutional Government, I address this House which has been the House of the People since April 1975, because it is the House where the votes of the women and men of our country are represented and these are the Members who make this House the House of the People! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Politics is sometimes a complex art. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But we can, in some of its aspects, reduce it to elements, perhaps, more understandable, although sometimes I have doubts. There's one thing that seems to me to be indisputable, but we use mathematics that, without any doubt, Mrs. and Mrs. PSD and CDS-PP members say 122 is greater than 107. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, 122 is greater than 107! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u51	And humility, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u52	hearing in this House Mr. Paulo Portas, from the CDS-PP, comes to my memory a piece written by itself that will most likely remain in the history of Portuguese politics, perhaps the author's chorus. He wrote about two years ago Dr. Paulo Portas, and I quote:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u53	It's only good for him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u54	... « the way this government takes decisions makes my contribution indispensable » by Paulo Portas. Well, what I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and it is good to get used to it, is that, here, the representatives of the people decided to follow their advice: in the vote that existed on 10 November, the people said that their contribution to the Government of Portugal was indispensable, and it is dispensed. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] For once, a statement from that famous letter became true. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the enormous difficulties of recent years, several studies and the Portuguese vote show that a large majority of Portuguese people place in the action of the State the greatest reserve of confidence when it comes to ensuring social balance. This is true for education, it is true for health, it is true for the pension system. For the Government, as for a large majority of Portuguese, the decisive role of the enterprise initiative in job creation and value is not at stake. But the defence of the public interest cannot dispense a strong and effective state that has one of its fundamental aspects in social policies. This confidence capital in public policies is a valuable asset that we want to preserve. Trust is a key element in the defence of the social state, in the serious and effective fight against poverty and inequality, in the strengthening of solidarity between generations. But how is this trust preserved and strengthened? Confidence presupposes quality public services, accessible to all, but also implies a renewed ambition of the state's relationship with citizens, modern, simpler and more effective public services, close to the citizen and tailored to their needs, a culture of transparency and openness for easier scrutiny and accountability. But trust also requires stability and predictability in the rules, as well as guarantee and sustainability so that future generations can enjoy the same rights and opportunities. The path of sustainability, in particular of financial sustainability, cannot be achieved by calling into question central elements of the social contract, which allowed the development and deepening of social cohesion. For the Government, the sustainability of social policies must be financial, but it will not be if it is equally economic and social. The Government will therefore know how to honour the commitments it has made, i.e., will work to restore peace to the current pensioners, ensuring that there will be no cuts in their pensions and that the annual update of the amounts of these benefits will be resumed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sustainability will be pursued through prudent but reformist management of social protection systems. It will be worked by recognizing the crucial importance of the return of employment, with financial rebalancing as a key element, as well as the need to diversify the sources of financing and to strengthen, making it more effective, combating fraud and contributing and performance avoidance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The confidence we seek to preserve is not possible without social dialogue. Strengthening social dialogue is even a central element of enhanced levels of trust — social dialogue in the various fields, from social dialogue to collective bargaining, involving all parties, from labour relations to inclusion policies, from social partners to solidarity institutions. It is the social dialogue that gives lasting support to a consistent agenda of change. It is the social dialogue that guarantees representativeness and social diversity in the search for solutions and that makes it possible to generate new consensus in decisive areas of our collective life. This government is born of a culture of dialogue, but it also brings with it a history of dialogue that does not fear comparisons with anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The culture of dialogue is not something that can be bought or so little that it can be suspended or recovered from time to time. It is the result of much work and commitment from the parties involved, commitment capacity and ambition in the pursuit of common social objectives benefiting from concerted efforts and concerted resources. The country therefore has a strong commitment by this Government to social dialogue, which will have as its first aim the objective of decent work, because here is a good part of an essential concept for us, that of dignity. In the name of dignity, this government has chosen as priority the fight against job insecurity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a need in this area to limit the use of long-term contracts and penalise excessive turnover of tables. It is necessary to combat false independent work, strongly penalizing the income and social rights of these workers through better regulation and more supervision, also promoting a greater balance between the rights and duties of self-employed workers. Labour insecurity not only creates insecurity in family incomes as it creates new risks in the long term because it affects the formation of future social rights, such as the right to pension. In the name of dignity, it is imperative that work be revalued. One in 10 workers lives at risk of poverty in our country. in this field, it will be negotiated in consultation the increase of minimum wage and a new salary supplement for workers included in poor wage aggregates, so that work no longer live with the risk of poverty. It is in the name of dignity that efforts to combat poverty in children and young people will be concentrated, a problem that has worsened in recent years. Today, about a quarter of the young people up to the age of 17 live at risk of poverty. Based on the definition of a national strategy, we will strengthen the link between family allowance, as reference support to the family, and additional sectoral measures in the field, for example, of the education system and the health system. It is in the name of dignity that the social minimums will be restored, the reference values of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... citizenship rights guaranteeing conditions of subsistence to families, with particular concern for an effective promotion of the social reintegration of beneficiaries. Some believe that economic growth can only be achieved by maximizing State functions and promoting free market competition. But, in fact, the most innovative societies, where individuals most risk, are those that guarantee a minimal protection network, a base of security and support. The guarantee of social minimums is therefore also justified on economic matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also in the name of dignity that we will promote the inclusion of people with disabilities or disabilities, and we will mobilize to this effect and in an integrated manner all relevant public policy areas. Today, December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is celebrated, which reminds us of the human, social and political rights of these people, of these citizens and as much as there is to do in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A truly inclusive school, a new path to employment for all, overcoming major failures in the level of access and adequacy of public services made available by the State, eliminating barriers at all levels, including at the level of political participation, reviewing social benefits and responses in the sense of greater inclusion and less institutionalization and combating violence and description are areas that will deserve attention throughout the legislature. This is a government that believes that only a society that integrates all can realize its potential and have the ambition to assert itself as a just and dignified society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the name of dignity, we will strengthen the selectivity of active employment policies, directing them to combat unemployment in segments with special difficulties of entry or return to the labour market. Young people and long-term unemployed will therefore be the main targets of work for the effective creation of jobs. I repeat, it is companies that create the essentials of employment in an open society and an economy inserted into the world, but public policies must support this dynamic, not to compose statistics, but to help change reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Trust, dialogue and dignity are our choices. They are not just expressions of social sensitivity, we want them to be pillars of policies — repeat, of reinforced social policies. Political options are not assessed for their sensitivity but for their consistency, persistence and, above all, for their results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is where we're going. We have the great and well-founded ambition that is the way of most Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u55	Mr Minister, you have five requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u56	Mr President, in two groups, one of two and the other of three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u57	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vieira da Silva, first of all welcome to the debate. It is a pleasure to hear it, although it seemed to me that today his speech was soft, discouraged, poor. I do not know whether it is in any way a kind of recognition of some illegality of your presence today, in this bench, as Minister. I don't know if you're not underlying that uncomfortable feeling of being in this bench the way you are. However, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you some questions that were not answered yesterday, and I understand why neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance are particularly social security specialists. So let's go to those questions. As regards the issue of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, VV. They will withdraw from the 14 billion euro from the Fund, which have had high profitability — about 10 % per year —, 1400 million euro to deliver to the private, to make urban rehabilitation with low profitability. I think the Minister has some memory — and it is good to have you here too — and you will remember what the mismanagement of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund was. Do you recall that in just three months, at the end of 2008, 350 to 400 million euros have disappeared from this Fund? V. Ex.a. was Minister. Therefore, a call for caution, a call for caution in the management of money that is from everyone, particularly from the workers, who have contributed to this, is an essential requirement, Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u59	Well pray Friar Tomás...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u60	You must answer, after all, how this money will be applied and how you can give it the profitability it has really had in recent years, putting it in the hands of the private in urban rehabilitation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u61	Second question, Minister. Perhaps one of the most dramatic points of the election campaign was when candidate António Costa confronted the question that there is a cut of EUR 1000 million in benefits subject to the condition of resources. The candidate then hacked, bothered, talked laterally, made a few periphrases there but was not able to answer. The question is this: after all, what is the logic of this saving of EUR 1 billion in resources? Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister was not able to answer either. First, he referred us to the media, to the media, to the media, to the response to Parliament, and then answered Parliament in a vague way. You are talking about increasing social benefits. In fact, they have ‘filled their mouths’ in this debate saying that they are increasing, which increases everything that has to do with social benefits, but the truth is that you will cut EUR 1 billion in the social benefits of the poorest, which are the social benefits subject to the condition of recourse. So, Minister, two questions: are you really going to cut the EUR 1 billion you announced? And what are, after all, the social benefits of the non-contributory scheme where the EUR 1000 million will be cut?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u63	Third question, Minister. It may be appropriate to explain to Mr Finance the question of the pension updating law. It is because yesterday, the Minister for Finance said that this law was suspended, a law that you created — you, in fact, in 2006 — to avoid updating pensions during the time of the governance of the coalition. It may be appropriate to explain to Mr. Minister of Finance that it was not suspended in 2010 for the 2011 budget year, that VV. They did. And for what? To freeze pensions, including minimum pensions under the general scheme, minimum social and rural pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, it would be appropriate to explain why there should be history in these matters. Those who frozen, in an inclusive way, dusted and without any sense of solidarity, the pensions of the populations who receive less money, one million Portuguese, were indeed the gentlemen. But there is no doubt that I must recognize one thing, Minister: you are a lucky man, because not always history knocks twice at the same door and you are lucky to knock twice at your door. And this will certainly allow you to correct the evictions you made back there in 2010. I'll remind you, Minister. You said, as far as family allowance is concerned, you spend a lot of money on it and then you cut the 4th. o and 5. The steps. It was EUR 250 million per year outside the families. Now, you say they will resume the family allowance as it was in 2010. Good! All right! [[PCP protests.]] You, in June 2010, made a change to the condition of resources, do you remember? Do you remember Decree-Law No 70/2010? Well, this Decree-Law allowed what? It allowed a reassessment of the condition of resources, allowing cuts, particularly in the social income of insertion — that « sacred cow» of the Socialist Party, the social income of insertion. And look, the cuts weren't so few. I remind you, Mr Minister, that the forecast was that, between 2010 and 2012 if you continued to be a government, they would cut EUR 150 million in the social income of insertion. Remarkable, Minister! On the issue of pensions, VV. Ex.s cut them, frozen them, and now VV. They say they're going to increase pensions. Finally, regarding the minimum wage, you had negotiated gradual increases, paulatines, but then they were interrupted, there was a stop. The coalition increased the minimum wage and VV. They also say they're going to increase it. And when I say that you are a lucky man because History knocks on you twice is for this reason, it's because you are now going to be able to increase everything. Well, it increases the family allowance, increases the social income of insertion, increases the pensions, increases the minimum wage. [[And who pays?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u64	Mr. Minister, stop a bit to think: but if you can increase and then you cut,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u65	Mr President, as I did yesterday, I maintain flexibility with regard to intervention times, but it is appropriate not to exceed 400 % of the estimated time, which is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u66	I'm going back, Mr President, I'm going back. The question is crucial and I am glad that Mr President has interrupted me because this is why I am here to raise the question. It's back there VV. Ex.s cut, how did they cut, and now they want to increase, how do they want to increase, four years back, what happened here for four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u67	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u68	I explain, Minister. What happened here for four years was a self-sufficient, skilled government that was able to re-enter the country and provide conditions for VV. Ex. They'll increase. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And because time is scarce, I would like to ask you one more question, Minister. VV. For example, in 2007 they carried out a social security reform. This social security reform is known for what it has done. It immediately became a deficit and more deficit. In addition, the coalition government in 2012 had to put 900 million euros there to ensure the sustainability of the social security system—just in 2012, it was not in 2013 or 2014, it was in 2012! Well, VV. They say they will do transparent, retrospective and prospective studies of social security, they will make the rigorous evaluation of the social security system. That is, studies, evaluations, more studies and more evaluations. The question is this, Minister : VV. Are they available or not available for serious social security reform, which gives sustainability to social security, which gives predictability and trust to pensioners, especially at a time when the OECD says that pension spending will continue? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] We, as we have been in the past, are now available for this reform. The question is whether VV. Ex. whether or not they want to make this social security reform. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u69	Mr President, he did not exceed 400 % of the 2 minutes he had to intervene, but almost. In any case, as I had the opportunity to say yesterday, as a discount on the time of each bench, it is an internal division problem that arises. This will no longer be the case when we begin to approach the 0 minutes, because the flexibility of the table will become rigid. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Labour and Social Security, today we are discussing this because the struggle of the workers and the will of the Portuguese imposed a defeat on the PSD/CDS government and demanded another way, a way of valuing work, progress and social justice. in the last four years, the PSD/CDS government has been responsible for impoverishment, worsening poverty and social exclusion, worsening exploitation, becoming pregnant with work and facilitating layoffs, worsening unemployment. The strategy was clear, it was to replace workers with rights by workers without rights, it was the bet on the precariousness of work and the precariousness of life, on the waste of half a million Portuguese who fled the country to escape unemployment, poverty and precariousness, with the absence of any prospect of a decent future in our country. This was the policy of retrogression which the Portuguese refused, is a way of valuing work and dignity in the lives of all who now demand it. For the CFP, the guarantee in law and in the life of the right to work with rights is an integral part of the democratic regime and, at the same time, an essential condition for the development of the country. Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security, today the reality in many workplaces is marked by the violation and denial of fundamental rights, pressure, blackmail and intimidation of workers. In order to ensure the fulfilment of workers' rights, it is therefore necessary for the Working Conditions Authority to be provided with the means of mate and human beings in an appropriate number to ensure the fulfilment of its mission. of the CFP, the commitment and contribution we assume is that of increasing wages and, in particular, the national minimum wage; the defence of collective bargaining, which requires the end of its expiry, which causes blockades and destroys fundamental rights of workers; the effective fight against precariousness and false green receipts, guaranteeing employment with rights; the replacement of 35 hours of work in the Public Administration and the fight against the deregulation of working hours, ensuring the right to articulation between personal, family and professional life and the replacement of retired holidays, which are fundamental elements in valuing work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This programme has welcomed a number of proposals which, in their implementation, can help to improve the living and working conditions of thousands of men and women in this country. That is our commitment, that is our goal and that is what we are going to work for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u71	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u72	Mr President, Mr Adón Silva, thank you very much for your questions and thank you very much for your concern at my enemy state, which I assure you is good, perhaps a little better than yours. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Laughing.]] With regard to legality, Mr President, I must tell you that I am here discussing the Government Programme because most of this House of the Republic has created conditions for this to happen. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And most of this Assembly of the Republic is the majority of the people and I would hope not to hear more of the PSD bench any claim that would challenge this reality. Most of this Assembly of the Republic is the majority of the people, it represents the majority of the people! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, answering you as quickly as possible with regard to your question about the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, he seems not to understand an essential issue: the Fund is composed of assets and what is in the Government's proposal is a transformation of assets. What happened in 2008 was a decline in the value of assets due to the financial crisis, which you have always said did not exist. Welcome to the recognition of the financial crisis, of the great recession! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u73	350 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u74	It was necessary to talk about the stabilisation fund to hear someone from the PSD remember that 2008 and 2009 were years of the greatest recession since the first decades of the 20th century. We shall not spend any money, Mr President, nor are these terms that correspond to the dignity of this debate. What will be done is to replace assets with profitable and useful assets for Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I am struck by the fact that you are talking about the law on the condition of resources. It is true that the law on the condition of resources is something that can and must always be improved and updated, but it was you who, in social benefits subject to the condition of resources, brought to the cut of 600 million euros of benefits for the poorest of the poor in this society. It was you who, in the resource condition law, considered that a child was worth less than it was worth until then and cut the value of a child in the formula for the allocation of social income for insertion. You have no authority to talk about this! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Increase in minimum wage? Mr President, the first time there was an agreement in Portugal with all the social partners — CIP, CAP, CCP, Confederation of Tourism, UGT and CGTP — it was in a government of the Socialist Party, and it was a medium-term agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is also what gives us authority to, in addition to our political responsibility, which is the last in defining the value of the minimum wage, to do everything possible, up to the limit of the impossible, so that that value also corresponds to an agreement between all the social partners. Mr Adam and Silva, on social security reform, to whom you finally realized — it took time! — there was a serious financial crisis in 2008 and 2009,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u75	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u76	... I say that if you are added that you, with your policies in 2012, have created the biggest recession, even above the 2008 and 2009 recession, will easily understand who created the greatest difficulties in the social security system. It was you and the government that you have supported over the years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the condition of resources, it is not said anywhere nor will it find at any point in the Government Programme the reference to any cut in non-contributory social benefits. Repeat, no reference! But we will continue, as has always been our principle, to value a work of rigour in the application of benefits on a condition of resources. What is estimated in the macroeconomic framework is that this rigour in the application of all the benefits subject to the condition of resources generates a positive effect—which is not what you say, it is just four years old! — but it is a value representing 4 % of the social expenditure which will grow with non-contributory benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's a false question you're raising! It would be wrong if a responsible government were not demanding what benefits are incurred by taxes from all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Rita Rato has identified some of the aspects that are fundamental to this government's social policy, since then those that have to do with dignity and working conditions. And I would like to appreciate two aspects of your intervention which I hope in the first few months of work of this government can be achieved in a very short time. One of them is to reverse the destructive trend in the instruments of monitoring working conditions, creating not only a strengthening of labour inspectors but also a mechanism that permanently guarantees the proper size of these inspectors, such public administration workers, regardless of the moments of exit or entry of inspectors, in particular because of reform. This will therefore be an immediate priority of this government's action, because we understand that with the worsening deregulation of working conditions in Portugal, it becomes even more important that the monitoring function is present on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But she's not enough. It is also necessary to review the legislative framework of various dimensions of labour relations, in particular those relating to long-term contracts and, in particular, to false green receipts or, in other languages, to the « masked work ». And it is possible to do this, at the moment when we find ourselves in line with a positive work that has been done in this House on the basis of a citizen's initiative, with regard to a new regulation of the false green receipt and other forms of illegitimate work. This will be a second priority which I would like to emphasize here and which comes to the attention of the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u77	For a second round of requests for clarification, Mr. Members José Moura Soeiro, BE, Diana Ferreira, PCP, and Isabel Pires, BE. Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u78	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, this government will not change everything overnight, but it has the immense responsibility to begin to respond to people's specific lives already, thus honouring the commitment that the new majority in Parliament is supporting. Having said that, I wanted to ask you two brief questions. The first is on the subject of which you have just talked about, which is the working offshore in which Portugal has transformed in the last and a half decades and which causes the transgression to law and illegality to become the rule in the world of work. As you mentioned, Portugal today has a law against precariousness, initiative of the precarious movements, which allowed to recognize the contract of work to a few hundred workers at false green receipt. And now, Minister, it is time to ensure that this law is strengthened, that it works, that its scope is extended and that the Labour Conditions Authority really has the conditions to guarantee rights, protection and contract to hundreds of thousands of workers at false green receipt. on our part, there is a willingness to start doing this work together. The second question has to do with the national minimum wage and this injustice that offends us and that he has also spoken about, which is the inequality and the fact that there is one in ten workers in Portugal who is poor, that is, even having a job, even having access to work, cannot escape poverty. And the leaders of the employers' confederations can well hope that we know — I know and know Mr Minister — that the increase of the national minimum wage to 600 € is an economic sensible measure, because it allows for increased domestic demand and therefore benefits micro and small businesses. It is an effective measure for companies, because it corresponds only to 0, 1 % of the total cost of production; and it is an urgent social measure to combat poverty and the inequalities it implies. For this reason, there is in the Government Programme this written guarantee that the national minimum wage will rise to €600 during this legislature and that on January 1, 2017 it will have at least the amount of €557. The question that I am asking you is basically the question that more than a million workers who receive the national minimum wage today, many of whom are young and who look at this political solution with a huge expectation and a huge hope, also do, which is to know when these workers can expect to see their salary begin to rise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u79	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u80	Mr President, Minister Vieira da Silva, the last four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS have brought with them more poverty, more unemployment and precariousness, with people with disabilities who have suffered most, and suffer, with the violent consequences of these policies and those most affected by poverty and social exclusion. The need for social support for people with disabilities, PSD and CDS responded with very low pensions and benefits and cuts in social benefits. To the need to support children and young people with special needs and disabilities, PSD and CDS responded with cuts in special education and with changes in the allocation of special education allowance, leading to serious clinical setbacks due to the interruption of the therapies of many children and young people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u82	The need to guarantee the right to health, PSD and CDS responded with the closure of health equipment, the cutting of technical assistance and the reduction of technical staff and rehabilitation assistants, and they removed from public management the Northern Rehabilitation Centre, fundamental equipment for people with disabilities and workers with disabilities. To the need to ensure a dignified and independent life for these people, PSD and CDS responded with the inability to implement a pilot project to support independent life, presented by the PCP in this House. The need to ensure work and inclusion in active life, PSD and CDS responded with work setbacks, always running away from fulfilling the compulsory share of employment of people with disabilities in the Public Administration, even placing some of these workers in the so-called « requalification ». Mr Minister, today the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is signed, so that they will never forget the tireless struggle of these people for their rights. Inclusion and integration are words whose weight should be translated into concrete measures. What is the role of the State in the implementation of these measures, and how will this government ensure this right to persons with disabilities? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u83	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u84	Mr President, Minister, over the past four years we have seen the complete deregulation of the labour market, making it a real jungle. Some examples of this are the brutal increase in precarious work; the abusive use of IEFP internships for easy and cheap renewal for companies of true labour; the direct and indirect devaluation of the income of those who work; the attack on collective recruitment, from more than one million to less than 200 000 workers today covered by this mechanism. This is the portrait of the country that left us on the right. And perhaps we should remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and CDS the real state of the country, because the country that left the right is the country where one in 10 workers are poor, is the country in which, for example, women who choose to stay with their children and interrupt their career are strongly penalized in their pensions. It is a poorer, more unequal country, where work has lost rights. It's a country of accounting, but they don't want to give it here to understand. Now, it is this destruction that the right has left that we have to respond in a clear and very combative manner today. Today, we have been able to discuss a programme that includes measures such as limiting the use of long-term contracts for permanent functions or worsening companies that abuse precarious labour relations and excessive turnover. With regard to these two measures, we ask how long it is expected that workers will see them fulfilled. We would also like to mention a fundamental aspect of the Left Block, which has to do with collective bargaining, which is, as I said, a mechanism that guarantees the rights of those who work and that more attacks have suffered in the last four years. Therefore, the relaunch of social consultation should aim to increase the number of workers covered by the collective bargaining mechanism, which is greatly reduced. And it must also be done in view of the important role that unions have and must continue to have and that the right has tried to crush. So we also ask how long it is expected that collective bargaining will be strengthened. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u85	To respond to the requests for clarification made by the honourable Members. Members José Moura Soeiro, of BE, Diana Ferreira, of the PCP, and Isabel Pires, of the BE, have the floor Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mr José Moura Soeiro has identified two issues which are probably the most important issues in employment relations in Portugal, that of false green receipts and that of the national minimum wage. On the issue of false green receipts, we know that some steps have been taken, but that it is necessary to do more. And I believe that one of the steps that must be taken, in close cooperation between the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, is what has to do with the legislative framework for the provision of services, which exists in all societies, and must continue to exist, but not as a way of misleading labour relations. That, I do not deny it, is a difficult and demanding work, from a legislative point of view — we have had the opportunity to confirm it when we discuss the citizens' initiative — but, on our part, it has a top priority (and we are already starting the work in this direction) and, of course, it also has a debate with the social partners. On the question of national minimum wage, Mr Prime Minister has already said that we will respect, as we have always done and are part of our matrix, the role of social consultation in this area. But obviously, as in the past, when we concluded other agreements, we had political objectives. And the political objectives are those of the Government Programme and they will guide the action, as from next week, of this Government. Mrs Diana Ferreira spoke of a very important issue, which is that of disabled people. Today is indeed the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and perhaps I should like to say that, particularly in the social protection system, this issue has unfortunately been the poor relative of our social protection system, even because it has failed to conceive adequate protection measures for people with disabilities. I am particularly concerned about what social protection measures are, because they are complex and difficult to reconcile, in particular, with the identification of levels of disability, when we also want to encourage participation in the labour market, the right to work for people with disabilities. But this articulation is certainly a priority, as well as another one, which he referred to, which has to do with the issue of accessibility. I would like to place here as an immediate priority the existence of contact services that are available to people with different types of disabilities so that they can effectively access the generality of public services. Mrs Isabel Pires also asked questions about work and the changes that are planned, particularly in the fight against precariousness. They will naturally have the priority that has been identified. I do not think they can all have the same rate of evolution because the complexity of the answers is different. However, I would like to make it clear that we do not understand labour legislation as an enemy of the flexibility that must exist in the economy. What we do not agree with is that it is in labour law that all the answers to the flexibility that any economy should have in modern times. The answer has already been given, the examples are more than many. All the steps that have been taken have often made more flexible aspects of our labour law without positive consequences either on the competitiveness side or on the side of the defence of labour rights. Some areas, such as the existence of an excessive individualization in the organization of working time, will have a central priority, because they also deal with other fundamental aspects of our collective life, such as, for example, the demographic challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u87	We move on to a third round of interventions. Mr. João Paulo Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u88	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government Programme we are discussing today in this corporeal Assembly, first of all, an alternative to the policies followed in the last four years in Portugal. This alternative, built on the basis of last October's election results, is thus strengthened by the solidity of democratic participation. in recent years, and in particular in the election campaign, the Socialist Party has always argued that the path of economic growth is the path that should be taken as an alternative to austerity. Today, in this Government Programme, this is exactly the way in which we are proposed to go. The 21st Government Programme is based on economic growth and increased family income as the key to job creation, as well as the creation of conditions for enterprise investment, coupled with a new strategy for consolidating public accounts. The extinction of the overtax on the IRS, the elimination of wage cuts, the gradual replacement of public service wages, the progressive and temporary reduction of the contribution rate of workers who take base wages below 600 € and the updating of pensions will allow for the redistribution of incomes that will extend the possibilities for the consumption of families, thus generating jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a commitment of this Government to increase the national minimum wage to 600 € within this legislature by strengthening the income of families, but also important, strengthening the idea of decent work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Worthy work, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is stable and effective work, and it is urgent to put an end to the precarious logic that has prevailed in the times of austerity. Promoting real active employment policies is not allowing the use and abuse of professional internships that function as substitutes for real employment by employers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Supporting professional internships that lead to effective insertion of work is what defends itself in this Program. This Government programme proposes a selective approach to active employment policies, seeking to address them to the most affected segments and groups, such as young people and long-term unemployed. Combating long-term unemployment and young unemployment are therefore absolute priorities. Reducing restorative VAT to 13 %, giving priority to urban rehabilitation and the recovery of historicalpatrimony are also concrete measures to combat unemployment, as these are highly employment-enhancing sectors. It is also understood that combining part-time reforms with incentives for hiring unemployed young people or seeking the first job is a way of sharing intergenerational experiences, ensuring the harmonious replacement of generations. On the other hand, business investment has a decisive role to play in the recovery of economic growth. The State must take on a framework of public resources and support which enables a rapid return on investment, and it is therefore very important to speed up the implementation of the Community funds. This funding is absolutely vital for the Portuguese economy. The Government should create all the conditions and adopt all measures to ensure that the implementation of these funds is carried out with quality, accessibility and speed, without, of course, forgetting values such as transparency and rigour. It also defends the creation of a capitalisation fund, most of which are applied in companies and investments in clusters that are now defined as strategic for our economy. One of the flagship measures of this Programme, in the field of business investment, is the incentive to finance with the use of own capital and reinvestment of profits, changing the tax treatment of these financings. They also deserve to highlight the Seed program and the relaunch of Simplex for companies. On the one hand, the Seed programme aims to stimulate entrepreneurship and the creation of start-ups, with tax regimes favourable to the emergence of entrepreneurs and investors. With the Simple for companies, the aim is to eliminate the various bureaucratic barriers that create difficulties for companies, focusing them on the essential: the management of their businesses, the creation of wealth and employment. I would also like to highlight the commitment to attract more and better foreign direct investment, betting on the value of the territory, with integrated offers through campaigns to disseminate the country's potential in hosting this investment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we start the path that leaves behind the austerity that devastated the country, the austerity that saw in precariousness an opportunity, which saw in the availability of people to work under any conditions the exchange of euros of minimum survival the solution to our problems. This austerity policy, which extended red passageways throughout all the country, inviting us to change some more euros, to emigrate, to leave our comfort zone, as a member of the previous government said, had ended. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those are, fortunately, past waters. This is a government programme that rejects society from the old against new people, pensioners against workers, it is a programme that rejects the idea that many of us are a bottleneck, an obstacle, a blockade to the development of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a Program that breaks with the logic that the older ones and their pensions are a heavy burden. [[Congrats from some of the PS Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another success of the National Health Service that you of the previous government wanted to finish: the so-called "grey plague" has ended! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We reach a new path into the country and we do not want to give up this territory just because it does not fit in Excel leaves. We definitely erase the idea that the younger and the more qualified are a good export product. This, My Lords, is a government programme that wants to react to the links of science to work, innovation to companies, placing on the knowledge of universities and politics, creating the conditions for them to fulfil the nobleness of their main tasks: to qualify and value our young people, so that they can aspire to more than precariousness and / or emigration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment in science, innovation, education, training and culture is assumed to restore to the country the hope of a promising future in the competitive economy of our time, a globalized economy where markets have to be regulated, and sometimes even have to be opposed, in the defense of the greatest good on our planet: people. One friend told me that « the hummus of all political activity should be decency». This government is expected to do everything to bring back to the country all the young people who have emigrated because they have no alternative in their lands, along with their own. That'll be decent! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A government is expected to rule for people, giving them conditions to qualify, to be able to work, to be able to consume, contributing to the development of the economy, to the growth of employment. That'll be decent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most Portuguese do not specialize in economic matters, budgetary treaties, public debt, markets, swaps or financial funds. Most Portuguese are specialists in living, seeking to live with dignity, respecting their citizens and the environment, working and striving every day to ensure a future worthy of you and your children. These, ladies. Members, it is the ones who deserve that the rules are clear and transparent, they deserve that their pensions are not cut and their wages reduced to protect the interests of the strongest, the richest, from those who say the rules on which they are always beaten and always the same to lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Working on behalf of this majority, always on the side of that majority, is an imperative of decency. In conclusion, Mr President, with a word that is unthinkable on the positive effects it can have on the economy and on our society: hope. Fortunately, this government has brought hope again to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u89	As there are no requests for clarification, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bet on knowledge is our commitment to the future. I repeat: the bet on knowledge is our commitment to the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore advocate a new political agenda, committed to stimulating young employment, valorising, capturing and setting qualified human resources, scientific employment and the dynamisation of innovation communities. Certainly a new agenda committed to the involvement of science and education institutions, employers, agents, social, economic, public and private actors. We believe in Portugal and therefore believe that Portugal can be affirmed as a country of science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we know well in Europe that the construction of knowledge-based societies requires a clear political commitment in the centrality given to knowledge in the formulation of public policies. To bet on knowledge means, above all, to stimulate that our collective institutions promote an effective openness of access to education, training, culture, knowledge, understanding the systematic practice of quality scientific research activities for all, regardless of age, origin, social and economic context. Apostate in knowledge represents a collective responsibility that must be continuous and persistent, meaning the complic and demanding participation of the whole society, involving its various political, social and economic actors. But, therefore, promoting widespread access to modern knowledge and learning practices, at all ages, requires a clear bet on young people and on the formation of future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have the duty and obligation to provide them with the necessary training and confidence so that they become increasingly critical and capable of adapting, with responsibility, to the challenges of an accelerated changing world. The future of the Portuguese, our future, is intertwined in a common design for all peoples. We all benefit from the enthusiasm and benefits of the discovery of new knowledge, when we all participate in the learning and productive application of these knowledge. In order to promote more scientific culture, it is important to democratize access to science and knowledge and to dignify the whole of our higher education. It is important to persist in an ongoing effort to support scientific activity, certainly to bet on advanced training and on more innovative scientific employment, stimulating processes of public participation in the agendas of scientific and cultural development. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, each generation must be able to explore new realities and have the opportunity to do so. The adoption by the United Nations last September of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development explicitly recognizes the role of education, science, technology and innovation in fulfilling the universal aspirations of leaving no one behind and protecting the planet from degradation processes. This is clearly recognized in the Government's programme through a new centrality to give the knowledge that Portuguese society today demands. But it also implies taking on our effective responsibility for scientific and technological cooperation in developing countries and especially the Portuguese-speaking countries. Portugal has in fact overcome its secular scientific delay and has built a modern scientific system with increasing impact on the economy, health, education and the quality of Public Administration, although still with high investment deficit accumulated in science. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this process, we know today that it was essential to extend the social base of support to education and science and simultaneously stimulate the advanced training of human resources, as recently explained directly by the OECD. However, for the first time in our democracy, the formulation of public policies to stimulate the production and dissemination of knowledge has been drastically altered in the last four years, resulting in an increase in the selectivity of access to science. It included, as we know today, the adoption of avous evaluation processes and the application of evaluation methods and practices that only didn't deserve the recognition and acceptance of the national and international scientific community as they were executed in a discretionary manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the adulteration of the scientific assessment system in Portugal carried out in recent years threatened the destruction of the national scientific system, meaning, from the very outset, the rupture with the broad social and political commitment to support the scientific and technological development of Portugal achieved in recent decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All — educational institutions, teachers, scientists and students — criticized the policies based on ignorance and prejudice based on the fury of destroying what was well done and which had ensured the success of science and overcoming the Portuguese scientific delay. This process — we know today — has been associated with a growing bureaucracy of scientific and academic environments in many institutions, including even the irresponsible use of metrics for evaluation purposes. This process was also accompanied by a significant cut in public support for scientific activity also abruptly and, contrary to what was expected, private investment accompanied this disincentive and was significantly reduced with the total expenditure on research and development to be reduced by around 530 million euros between 2010 and 2014. I repeat : reduced by around EUR 530 million, corresponding to 19 % of its total. As a result, Portugal has increased its divergence with regard to Europe, with the total research expenditure to be reduced to 1,3 % of our Product. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now essential to reverse this process and regain confidence in the science and technology system, ensuring our effective approach and presence in Europe of knowledge and science. Thirty years after the publication of AJangada de Pedra, by José Saramago, we must decisively strengthen scientific and technological collaboration with Spain and ensure our convergence with Europe. There's no other way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is critical to ensure the predictability of public incentives and to ensure adequate planning of priorities and career management, as well as the restoration of clarity, transparency and regularity in the financing of scientific policy agents, and to that end I would like your attention and understanding. We know that the inherited framework will, of course, condition future and immediate investment options. But this objective is a priority along with the guarantee that, in a clear way, access to knowledge must be considered an inalienable right of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore urgent to outline a new course for Portugal with more science, more knowledge and more scientific culture. Our commitment is to bet on knowledge. And betting on knowledge is, first of all, bet on people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this context that strengthening the training and qualification of human resources, its institutional integration, the fight against precariousness alongside the capture and fixing of researchers in Portugal is a priority in the current Programme. It certainly includes the promotion of culture, the promotion of lifelong learning, the densification of our territory in terms of scientific activities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these opportunities require firm political convictions. Let some of the options clearly included in the Government Programme be highlighted. First: involving the scientific community in the definition and social construction of public policies to stimulate the production and dissemination of knowledge and in the processes of evaluation and allocation of funding to R & D activities. Second: ensure the strengthening of scientific activity, including a total link between scientific development and higher education policies. Third: to stimulate qualified employment through the densification of basic scientific, technological and cultural activity throughout the territory, developing a strengthening programme in collaborative laboratories and intermediate institutions between production and dissemination of knowledge by companies. Fourth: broaden and democratize access to higher education by reactivating a pact of trust in this whole teaching system. The Portuguese need a differentiated framework of institutions that stimulates the qualification of all Portuguese without exception. Thursday: to enhance the relationship with our scientific diasporas in the world and in Europe, ensuring an effective relationship of international scientific cooperation, particularly in Europe, as well as to stimulate scientific activity in Portuguese and cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries. Sixth: to ensure initiatives to support the joint mobilization of schools, research centres, businesses and public administration at national and international level. In short, and to conclude, we recognize in the bet on humanist basic knowledge the path to the formation of citizens capable of having a critical and creative thought, understanding the difficulties and achievements of others, ensuring intergenerational dialogue and contributing to the promotion of a culture of respect for diversity. Our goal is to make Portugal a Country of science, culture and knowledge. This is a collective project for the future of Portugal. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u91	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I ask you how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u92	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u93	Of course. First of all, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, we are one of the countries of Europe which currently practice higher standards. At the same time, the annual investment is decreasing, and these cuts are now being made in the state budgets, with the reduction of budget transfers and appropriations to the institutions, or in the cutting of social stock exchanges. We know today that much of the scholarships that are awarded have a minimum value, which guarantees only the payment of the tips. That is, in fact, the scholarship no longer meets the needs for which it exists: to support the student in his expenses in order to be able to attend higher education. The results of these political choices have resulted in the abysmal abandonment of graduates over the past four years. Only in 2014 / 2015, in the previous school year, officially abandoned higher education 5000 students. To this number we can add all those who fail to cancel registration because, even if they do not attend classes, they do not want to stop studying and do everything for everything, since they accept precarious and part-time jobs with poor wages. It is time to turn the page and invest in higher education, science, technology, youth and people in this country. We are the best-prepared generation that the country has ever known and we are also the generation that received the invitation to emigrate. Therefore, today we have to ensure that everyone who wants to attend higher education has this possibility through investment in higher education itself and through scholarships. That is why, Minister, I ask you what position and measures you will take on these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u95	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, the national scientific and technological system is a fundamental axis for the development of a policy of valuing production, as well as for raising the living conditions of the population at the social, economic and cultural levels. That is why it is so well understood that the former PSD/CDS government, so committed that it was to bow the country to the great economic and financial groups and European powers, so much that it had despised our scientific and technological sovereignty, because these are also the basis of our productive sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u98	The PSD and CDS policy has made public investment in research and development more than 200 million euros annually and neither the entrepreneurship and the virtues of the large economic groups eliminate the fact that private investment has fallen even more than public investment, thus losing 250 million annually between 2010 and 2014. The PSD and the CDS view science and technology only as a way of creating highly specialized workforce for export, such is the desirability with which young people see and qualification: not as people with rights and as a fundamental instrument for national sovereignty, but as an obstacle to their policy of national destruction, technological destruction with a view to economic destruction, economic destruction with a view to political submission and the surrender of sovereignty. Public investment in research and development and higher education was cut, year after year, by the previous government and in good time was defeated this policy by struggle and vote. It is essential to initiate a public investment policy in research and development and in higher education that, regardless of private investment, enhances and qualifies the system. It is urgent to clarify the role of research units, associated laboratories, state laboratories, universities and polytechnics and, at the same time, give all these pillars of the system the necessary means to carry out the defined mission. The chronic and galloping underfinancing of public higher education and state laboratories and the absence of a programming and planning policy result in the progressive dismantling of the country's scientific and technological potential. Work policy and employment in the sector must also be subject to profound change. In Portugal, besides all this, students pay to study, pay to have access to a right. Social action at school is very short of the needs and students often owe themselves to the bank to have access to the studies. Many are excluded, many no longer dream of reaching higher education, even to the public, although this is a constitutional right, and many are those who abandon higher education because of lack of economic resources to bear the costs. It is precisely from these considerations that I put to you the following question, Minister: what measures will be taken to achieve the statements and objectives contained in the Programme, including public investment in research and development, which is currently in the 0, 55 % of GDP, and the eradication of false scientific research scholarships, which are no longer the instrument for precaution of labour relations in science, devaliating both work and scientific and technological production in our country? [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u99	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u100	Mr President, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, you will have to prove life because no one has forgotten who Mr. Secretary of State Manuel Heitor was. It was the Secretary of State that the scientific community remembers that it left all trust contracts to pay. Minister, we all remember what your mandate was, in which the exchanges had as average decision time 106 days and that the previous government had reduced to 33 days. Mr Minister, today, and in view of the programme they present, which is not clear on this matter, I ask you whether you continue to want to promote or not the participation of young people in higher education, but from the guarantee of maintenance of professional technical courses, which are today a success, a success that the left criticised, the most radical, with which the Socialist Party today is married for convenience. Mr Minister, when he ceased to be Secretary of State, Portugal was a net contributor to the European research and science budget. Today, our research centres will seek more money, more money from the Community budget and, as such, better defend our scientific system. So I ask you: are we stronger? Do we have a stronger or weaker scientific and technological system, Minister? in the field of science, a sensitive theme that the parties on the left here brought several times in the previous legislation, I question - still about the issues of the pockets. Will the Socialist Party be prepared to hire purses or, perhaps, will it be aligned with the idea that the status of the purse should be strengthened by the exclusive dedication and the possibility of increasing the amount with the host institutions? I would ask you to clarify this, Minister, in order to know whether it is only the tow of the parties on the left. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u101	For a request for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u102	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, it is true that when we talk about the sustainability of development, we must necessarily talk about three key pillars to be added: the environment, social and economic. And it is true that, for all of them, they compete with the levels of qualification of the citizens of a particular country. This is fundamental to the success of sustainable development. Mr Minister, I would like to say that in the past legislature, with the PSD/CDS Government, the Greens have repeatedly brought a concern to the Assembly of the Republic which stemmed from a complaint that it also repeatedly arrived at the Parliamentary Group of the Greens — and I assume that it also arrived at the other parliamentary groups — that many students in higher education had to give up the frequency of their course due to economic incapacity. Mr Minister, it is perhaps of the most worrying things that families cannot bear the qualifications of their children, and the country that loses it. That is why, Minister, we were so concerned about the insensitivity of the previous government and this matter, and that is why I think it is essential that we look at the country's concrete reality in order to find solutions. We know that the solutions are often not immediate, but when we do not take the first steps to solve the situation, then everything is in conflict and, more than fighting, it is ruined, Minister. And that is why, too, at this level, it is important to reverse the cycle. Mr Minister, when we think that we are the second country in the European Union where the tips are higher, there is something that has to make us think. In addition, the country ahead of us is the United Kingdom, but students in the United Kingdom still have an advantage: they receive scholarships, but they do not receive the scholarship to pay tips, because these scholarship students do not pay tips. This does not happen in Portugal. In Portugal, students with economic difficulty receive the scholarship to pay the tips and everything else is unprotected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u103	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u104	There's something here that's not hitting right and has to make us think. This burden of families on the payment of education, and in the specific case of higher education, is deeply worrying and should indeed deserve our reflection and, more than that, it should deserve measures to alleviate these families and, as such, make progress in qualification and qualification levels in Portugal. Mr Minister, it was precisely on this subject that I would like to ask for your reflection. What is the government's assessment of what is known as a situation in the national territory, and what can be expected of the fact that we prevent students from disengagement, disengagement from higher education due to economic incapacity? [[Applause from the Greens of the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u105	To finish this block of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the scientific fabric of this country is highly precarious. The majority of scientific research is now ensured by stockholders who spend their lives, year after year, in this same condition as stockholders, which does not give them labour rights and leaves them to the mercy of the Russian Roulette of the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ). That is, they are waiting for a year to enter the lot the following year without knowing if they come out of the lot of knowledge areas that the government decides to destroy that year. By chance, if they are sociologists they will probably not be so lucky, since the government has decided to choose to destroy social and human sciences. And so they spend their lives, year after year, without the right to unemployment allowance, without the right to holiday allowance, without the right to Christmas allowance and without the right to access social security, like the rest of the workers. Mrs Nilza de Sena, exclusivity is indeed recommended, but the problem of exclusivity is that when the stock exchange is delayed, the stock exchanges still have to eat and pay. And the problem is that the bags have been delayed many times! Delays, arbitrariness, exclusion, destruction to the breaking point have been the reality of the CTF over the past four years. We passed from about 3000 scholarships between post-doctoral and doctoral scholarships in 2007 to now have fewer than 1000 doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships. There were 168 research centres that were closed without appeal or aggravating, with criteria of assessment at least doubtful. Alongside this, we saw another reality, which is access and use of scholarships for situations where they should not be used. There is a widespread abuse of the use of scholarships for cheap recruitment of very, very qualified personnel that has become our daily bread of our academy and not only. Just look at the ads: for example, a stock exchange for the maintenance picket of the Higher Institute of Agronomy. A bag! A scholarship application! Or the example of Coimbra, a bag to collect tips — they want to recruit a pocket to collect tips from other students! There are bags for telephonists, bags for gardeners, bags for receptionists, bags to hide the need for a job that needs a job contract! The precariousness of scientific research is also the precariousness of the country's future. This is therefore a strategic option that must be taken, a strategic option that needs public investment and which must be taken seriously. I agree that betting on knowledge is betting on people and first of all bet on the rights and conditions of those who play a role in scientific research in Portugal. These people know what they want and know what they need; they have old claims. His first claims are in relation to the conditions of his work and his living conditions. The conversion of FCT research grants into work contracts, the linkage of scholarships to research centres, the increase in the number of scholarships, justice and predictability in competitions and the award of scholarships and the updating of the value of these scholarships are the first claims of the protagonists and scientific research agents in Portugal. I therefore ask you, Minister, whether this government is prepared to reverse the policy of precaution of research, whether this government is prepared to make this commitment, not only to the researchers who are here, but also to those who have to emigrate and who want to return. I also ask you whether this government is prepared to reverse what has already been called the long winter of scientific research in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u107	You now have the floor to respond to requests for clarification, Mr Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your understanding of the complexity of the problem, but also for the clear effort that we will have to take responsible and credible policies, not forgetting, of course, the legacy that has left us over the past four years. Mr. Luís Monteiro, your understanding of the critical issue of higher education enlargement is clearly in the genesis of the Government Programme. It is a priority — and it has always been when the left-wing governments took power — to open up the social basis for support for higher education and thus contribute to a better Portugal. That is our priority at the same time as strengthening scientific employment. To this end, the experience of Portugal and our relationship with other European countries and regions clearly shows a need for better diversification of our higher education, while making our network so well distributed, of higher education across the country and, in particular, of higher political institutes, which today can and should be dignified, contrary to what has happened in recent years. It is by believing in all our institutions and in their collective that we can better guarantee openness to higher education as a form of ascension and social mobility in Portugal. We know that Portugal is an example in this regard and the examples we have today that investment in science and the opening up of the social base of higher education actually made possible a new hope of social mobility. As such, this is the main priority that unites us. I am also grateful for the reflection that Mr. Miguel Tiago here has made on what we have learned today from the radical change that, eventually, the Portuguese did not think possible in public policies for the production and dissemination of knowledge. The critical issue, which you have mentioned very well, of science policy is to be considered only as an instrument for economic policy not only in this Parliament today, but certainly at OECD level. Science policy, together with higher education policies, has its own values and we know today that, above all, the dignity of knowledge for itself in all its areas, regardless of its disciplinary origins, is a factor not only of national identity, but also of social mobility for a better society. So let us dignify knowledge. Of course, we also look — and we must look — at the relationship of knowledge with the prospects and opportunities for their economic and social recovery. They are different, complementary aspects, which have to be united and we know today that the capacity of young Portuguese is not different from that of others and that it is as entrepreneurship as that of all others, having to be stimulated and promoted at the same time. It is also important to show that, contrary to what has been said to us a few years ago — at least in the last four years — that public investment could be replaced by private investment, the numbers published a month ago in official statistics show and confirm that this has not occurred, as has never occurred in the history of Portugal, in the history of any European region and in the history of any region of the Americas. We are well aware of the complementary nature of private investment and public investment, as it could never be. That is why these policies were misinformed policies and, above all, they were policies which, I would say today, confirmed that they were wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we need to understand the public nature of the public and private investment. There is no experience in any European region where private investment has increased without having been preceded by a clear statement of public investment in science and technology. This is what teaches us the reflection and study of Europe and the reflection and study that at OECD level must be done. The commitment I give you is to ensure that this understanding of public investment is ensured in the definition and certainly in the social construction of public policies for the coming years. We know the challenge. The challenge is great, the challenge is huge. We know that, above all, what has happened over the past four years is centered on a gradual and progressive departure from Portugal from Europe. for the first time in Portuguese democracy, Portugal has moved away from Europe in terms of investment in knowledge and, in particular, in science and technology. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must now reverse this trend and therefore convergence with Europe and convergence with the references of our young people must be our guarantee. When we looked at the evolution of the past 40 years, we realized that whenever the left was on the ground it could have the confidence of the Portuguese and the researchers; on the contrary, the same did not happen on other occasions. Therefore, Mrs Nilza of Sena, with whom I hope to have the best friendly relations in this Parliament, because we all build these policies, we well know that the policies of the governments on the right have been against science, but I am sure that the voters on the right also want more science, and that is why we are going to work with everyone, on the left and on the right, to give more science to all, women and men, girls and boys in Portugal, who see confidence in the future in knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We've worked in the past on a trust agreement, we've never worked on a mistrust contract. Today, what we have is, above all, a divided country, the institutions of divided higher education, the interior and the coast, the north and the south, so our priority will create confidence in higher education as a collective. As far as convergence with Europe is concerned, the honourable Member is quite sure that what she has seen in recent years was the result of the accumulation of the formation of the framework programme promotion office, and it is not necessary to remind her who created it, it is not necessary to remind her who created the policies of approach to Europe in the area of research. Finally, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I appeal to her understanding for the critical factor of dropout in higher education. Of course, this will have to join us all, political actors and, of course, institutions of higher education. Mrs. Joana Mortágua, I am also grateful for the reference she made to the need not to exclude any disciplinary area and, in particular, to consider knowledge as transversal to all matters and to all disciplines. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. I report that there was a transfer of time from PS to the government. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A modern state is not a minimal state, without resources or competence; it is a State with a capacity for strategic intervention, simpler, an intelligent and inclusive state, endowed with a dynamic public administration, capable of managing well and transparent the taxes we all entrust to it. Modernisation of public administration is therefore one of the priorities of this Government. A modern public administration, which is close to people, which does not leave anyone out and takes into account inequalities in access to services, is indispensable for having a country that is socially and territorially cohesive and is also essential for having a more competitive economy, which is relieved of the excess costs of context, redundant interactions with public administration and the unpredictability and opacity of obligations before the State and society. A modern public administration cannot at present suffice to comply strictly with its routines, cultivating a conservative approach to its procedures; it has to rethink, make them simpler, it must differentiate and customize its responses according to the needs of citizens and businesses, it must use new technologies in a transformative way, it must guarantee the quality of its services, always look at the results and worry about the perception of the target citizens. In short, you have to incorporate innovation into your own DNA. Innovation in the public sector is therefore a cross-cutting strategic priority in the Programme and in the organization of our Government in conjunction with what is currently happening in the European Union and in different Member States, the OECD and other international institutions such as the United Nations. In order to achieve the objectives proposed in our Programme, we will involve citizens and companies in the detection of problems and in the design of the best solutions, we will motivate all public officials, valuing the exercise of their functions, articulating the different levels of administration and giving continuity to the changes already started whenever they go in the right direction. in fact, simplifying and innovating in the public sector is also, and perhaps, above all, a question of culture and not just a legislative and administrative issue. Changing a culture of public management requires time and continuity so that changes can be consolidated. Starting with the law, it is important to facilitate your knowledge, monitor your life cycle, estimate your impact and control new costs raised by it and avoid changing the legislative framework too often, especially when the previous law is not in a position to be evaluated, as has happened several times in the past four years. We also hope, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this House can continue its work in the previous legislative consolidation legislation. It is still important, increasingly, to inform citizens proactively of their rights and duties, improving their relationship with the Public Administration. It is essential to provide administrative services, increasingly integrated, by events of life, with the collaboration of various levels of Public Administration, as well as of the social and private sector when relevant and, for this to happen, it is necessary to modernize and promote greater collaboration among the services behind the service. It is urgent to strengthen and continue a shared service strategy and rationalization of information and communication technologies to achieve efficiency gains at different levels of Public Administration. The network of public services of proximity, in particular through spaces and shops of the citizen, should be widely and in-depth in collaboration with the authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also, very soon, resume the Simplex programme, unfortunately interrupted, for the entire Public Administration, setting priorities for action in cross-cutting and also sectoral areas that need to simplify, inter alia, justice, employment, social security, the environment, sea affairs and health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a firm commitment from this government, before this House, with whose collaboration, critical and constructive, we hope to be able to count. A commitment also to all citizens, on behalf of whom, and with whom we will work in this regard every day. A commitment to our international partners, in particular the European Union, of whom we expect, in fact, a similar effort. In short, a commitment to the Portuguese Republic, which we wish could be an example for Europe and the world, as has happened on other occasions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u111	Mrs Paula Santos is registered for clarification, but the Minister no longer has time to answer her. [[Pause.]] According to information from the Bureau, the PS gives Ms.Minister time to answer, so you have the floor to Mrs. Paula Santos to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues that have brought us are indeed of great importance. Better state is not a lower state, amputated of the means to give the necessary response to populations such as PSD and CDS taxes. The policies for the administrative modernization of the PSD and the CDS focused exclusively on the destruction of public services, the degradation of their quality and their privatization. PSD and CDS closed unconcentrated services of the central administration of support to the productive sectors- schools, health extensions, services and hospital valences, TTC posts and even extinguished frequencies. PSD and CDS created spaces and shops of the citizen to justify the closure of the other public services, transferring the charges to the authorities. PSD and CDS were deresponsible for guaranteeing the universality of fundamental rights, transferring competences to the authorities that must continue under the supervision of the central administration. This is no better state. Better state is a state close to the population, equipped with the necessary and efficient means, which contributes to the elimination of regional asymmetries and enhances workers at professional, social and remuneration level. Better state goes not only through the use of the potentials that new technologies provide, but mainly through a model that ensures quality public services and under public management. Better state also goes through administrative reorganization in a national, regional and local perspective. in this context, we believe that the strengthening of the powers of the local administration cannot call into question the universality of the social functions of the state and must be accompanied by the financial recovery of the authorities. at the regional level, the adaptation of existing structures cannot replace the implementation of the administrative regions, as our Constitution provides. Mr. Minister, it is essential that the path outlined by the previous Government should now be reversed and that the Portuguese authorities should ensure that they respond effectively to the needs of their populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u113	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor, which has also given the government one minute to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u114	Mr President, Minister, administrative modernization also eliminates barriers in the relationship between citizens and the Administration. on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, I wanted to remind here of the difficulties that people with functional diversity have in relation to the Administration. I remember that physical barriers need to be removed, but also at the level of communication. I want to remember vehemently a community that is forever forgotten, the community of deaf people. The gestual language must be used by the Administration in contact with deaf people. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u115	In reply, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Paula Santos and Mr Jorge Falcato Simões and I would like to say the following: for us—and it comes from long tradition to show this concern—, the best state is the one that leads its services, in the most appropriate format, to the needs of citizens, using the level of administration most suitable for that purpose, which may be central administration, intermediate administration, regional administration, or local administration. in the 21st century, and with the potential that technologies allow, it is possible to integrate the services of these three levels of Administration and give the citizen a more convenient care. For us citizens — and we must always put ourselves on that side — we will never forget our condition as users of public services. It does not matter who is competent, what we care about is who can give us complete information to solve our problem and who can allow us to make the necessary transactions to reach the solution, preferably at one point, a point close to it of course, even if it depends on different administrations, either from the central administration, or from other levels of administration, which should be coordinated to that end. I also started by saying that a modern state is an inclusive state, and this was not a word put here just to illustrate a speech. An inclusive State obviously needs to find the appropriate formats for the different needs of citizens and to include citizens who, due to certain disabilities, need special attention which, of course, must be taken into account in all channels by which the Administration communicates with these citizens, not only physical but of another nature. Mr Jorge Falcato Simões, thank you very much for your call for attention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u117	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Government has entered this wounded debate of political legality. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u119	And he hasn't healed himself, nor will he heal himself. This political legitimacy will accompany Dr. António Costa from the first until the last day of his term of office. This debate has also revealed a tragically dependent government, and I will even turn to a counter-native radicalism that is perfectly willing to sacrifice its history and its identity for more time in power. But the saddest confirmation of this debate was Mr Finance Minister. In despair yesterday, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asked for the benefit of doubt for the Minister of Finance, but it was Prof. Mário Centeno himself who, with his interventions yesterday, definitely removed this benefit from himself. His speech was made of dashed arguments, was hilarious in the purposes, revealed a financial relativism that does not hope for anything good for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: we can not agree with the policies of any finance minister, we can not even appreciate his figure, but what is not possible, what should not have happened here, in the Assembly of the Republic, is that the Minister of Finance's speech provokes spontaneous laughter, laughter which, once again I say, causes the greatest future troubles to the Portuguese. We in the PSD will be firm and consistent in the face of the radicalization of the Socialist Party, to its unconditional surrender, to the coup de « tieta» parliamentaire that was applied to it by the Bloc de Left and the Communist Party Portuguese, and will be in our natural place: at the center, with moderation; at the center, with responsibility; at the centre, where the Portuguese will meet us, when, in the next elections, we will be re-elected to be the legitimate Government of Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more speakers in the debate, so we will interrupt the session. We shall resume our work at 3 p.m., with the final speeches, during the closing of the debate, and with the vote on the motion for a rejection No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which entered the Bureau. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, we will begin the closing phase of the debate of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. First of all, for an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members and all those present in the Chamber : We have already had the opportunity to discuss and listen to some of the forces and weaknesses of the Government's programme presented. this program highlights the intention to bet on science, formal education, culture. We found the intention to reverse the logic of collective impoverishment, the loss of social rights and the reduction of the social state, which we are pleased to record. We also note the inclusion of some measures dedicated to animal protection. The NAP interprets this openness as a willingness to work together throughout this legislature in the sense of moral and legal dignity to be extensible to other also sensitive beings. For this reason, the NAP will always be on the front line to highlight the importance of this cause, since the way we respond to the challenges it poses tells us much about what we are as a society. Having come here, we cannot fail to mention environmental issues. in the view of the NAP, the current Government Programme follows the usual line that considers nature as only a resource to explore, goods to be traded, in a mere utilitarian perspective. Nature has never been as exploited as it is today, it is an increasingly scarce and urgent good to protect. We live a period that is designated by numerous scientists of « Anthropocene », that is, the devastating global impact on the ecosystem resulting from human activities. in this sense, we want to work with the government so that what is now omitted or less suitable is empowered for ethically more responsible practices, ecologically structured and, in this way, are able to articulate properly the interconnection between people, animals and nature. in this closing debate, the NAP would once again like to reiterate the will and willingness to work with all the parliamentary groups that make up this Chamber. Great transformations can only be achieved with collaboration as a basis. The NAP has your willingness to perform a collective work in favour of Portuguese and Portuguese. Everyone, the government and its supporters, as well as the opposition, can count on the NAP for the work ahead. For the good of people, animals and nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That menacing invention of the « arc of governance », with the aim of bipolarizing the Portuguese political reality between the PS and the PSD, with the added CDS where it is most so, sought to generate a huge misunderstanding consisting of the distortion of legislative elections, as if they did not result in the election of 230 Members, but rather the election of a Prime Minister. It was a false and disrespectful expression of the Portuguese Parliament! Today, by the determination of the voters, who have dictated a concrete election result, the Portuguese political life is focused - where it is fair, correct and democratic - to focus, i.e., in the Assembly of the Republic. Without absolute majority, which has been revealed as a rule of little dialogue and very authoritarian, there was a predisposition to the left to find parliamentary convergences with the PS that could contribute to creating an urgent response, which would create a change in the situation of a country victim of a policy that was leading us to structural impoverishment, to a prolonged economic stagnation, to the destruction of public services and to the management of resources at the service of the great economic and financial power. This change was the real decision of the Portuguese voters, who removed most of the Members from the PSD and the CDS, who proposed continuity, and who gave a majority of Members to the political forces who committed themselves precisely to this change. In view of this parliamentary composition, as defined by the Portuguese, how would PSD and CDS continue to govern whether the government depends on the parliamentary composition and whether any other political force wants to associate itself with the continuity of your disastrous policies? They have no legitimacy to demand what the Portuguese people refused you! It is illegitimate your claim to want to rule! [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]] Thus, a completely legitimate solution to the formation of a PS Government was found to be provided by a dialogue that opened on the left and which has already found very relevant convergences to reverse the path of impoverishment and insensitivity in relation to the living conditions of the Portuguese, such as the return of income, wages and pensions, the fall in the weight of the huge increase in taxes or the safeguarding of public services. The PS Government presented a Government Programme to the Assembly of the Republic. Is it a programme that the Greens would take on as theirs? No, it is not, but it is a Programme that contains a set of emerging measures that, as a result of the convergences for which the Greens has also worked with the PS, will contribute to improving the lives of people and, from there, the life of the country. For these convergences, the Greens have placed on the table a set of economic, fiscal, social and environmental issues which have generated policy commitments to respond to questions such as: the guarantee of non- privatization of the water sector; the need to ensure the necessary means for the protection of water resources and the interests of Portugal in relation to the management of international rivers; the re-evaluation of a National Barrage Plan that has brought various problems to Portugal; a different strategic view on transport, supported in more sustainable modes of mobility and territorial cohesion; the need to stop the deep eucalyptization of the country, even more encouraged by legislation adopted by the PSD and the CDS; the defence of close public services, with a view also to combating regional asymmetries; the strengthening of means for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, generating more and better conditions for research in this area, which provides us with free and fundamental ecosystem services to the security of the territory, and which deserves particular attention at a time when we need to provide that climate-related security already affects. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The motion for rejection of the Government's Programme, submitted by the PSD and the CDS will be voted on shortly. The Greens will contribute to the lead of this motion, proving our determination to ensure that the policies promoting inequality are already past and to enter through a door of hope for change, with a serious predisposition and assumed of dialogue and meeting of convergences, without ever fail to address the real problems of the country. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u124	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are coming to the end of the debate of the Government's programme and, with it, the end of a process of indigitation and formation of a government whose legitimacy was undoubtedly based on the majority will of this House. A will assumed with all transparency and giving expression to the majority will of the popular vote, which, in the elections of 4 October, clearly placed the PSD/CDS-PP coalition in minority in this House, suffering a profound defeat, but also expressed a clear refusal of its policy. during this debate, we also heard the re-examination of theses and the invetives of those who seek, such as PSD and CDS, to justify their right to exercise power in monopolies, in the name of the non-existent and false rule that the most voted party has the right to govern and to pass necessarily in the Assembly of the Republic, even when a minority, in this false art that distorts the nature of the legislative elections and aggressively transforms them into elections for Prime Minister. But this is past, the future is for those who justly defend and do not abdicate the principle that the votes are all equal and that there are no first vows, anointed in a kind of divine law, as they want PSD and CDS, and second vows, which are those of the other parties. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] Today, with the new composition of the Assembly of the Republic, nothing can mislead the existence of the real possibility of adopting decisions that correspond to legitimate aspirations of the Portuguese people. A new phase is now open in national political life, which can respond to many of the immediate problems of Portuguese workers and people. A new phase with a government that has taken over and presented itself to this House with its Programme and has met the conditions for it to enter into office and adopt a policy that ensures a lasting solution in the perspective of the legislature. A course that will not be easy or simple, if we take into account the reality and state in which the country is as a result of the policies carried out in recent years and substantially aggravated in the governance of the PSD / CDS-PP coalition, which in this debate have refused to accept. A government that has left the Country of Trails and in the tail of development in Europe, with an economy that has driven more than a decade back and with thousands of closures of companies. A country that has impoverished, since its takeover, about EUR 10 billion. A country slaughtered with the immersion of investment and with unpredictable effects on its future development. An increasingly indebted country and a suffocating debt service, with real unemployment reaching more than 1, 1 million Portuguese, with dramatic levels of precariousness reaching almost one third of employees. A country that is increasingly unequal and unfair for the accelerated devaluation of labour income. An unacceptable regression in the distribution of national wealth and which translates into a historical fall in wages that, in the last 50 years, have never, as today, weighed so little on profits, incomes and interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u127	Characterizing the policy pursued as a policy of austerity is not strict. It was, before, a violent policy of exploitation and impoverishment, of transferring income from work to capital. A more unequal and unfair country, with an increase of 800 000 Portuguese living below the poverty threshold in the last four years, while cutting into social benefits, income from the most deprived Portuguese, unemployment allowances, transport of non-emergency patients, and supplements to the elderly. An insensitive social policy that ruined families, to whom they still weighed down the houses where they lived. A country with more than half a million Portuguese forced to emigration and increasingly deserted in much of its territory. A country suffocated with a brutal increase in labour taxes and consumption of popular and essential goods, with degraded public services and social rights of the amputees, which weakened the social rights of Portuguese people, including health, education, social protection and culture. A country in decline, looted in its heritage, with the privatization policy that made it more dependent and fragile. It was this country that PSD and CDS left, with their choice for a burnt land policy that here, in this debate, expressing a bad sour loss, if they were to continue, now in the opposition, betting that they are giving an image of imminent catastrophe in the country, as a result of the new situation resulting from the elections. They anticipate a new apocalypse, but what all of their catastrophic declarations aim to provoke fear, to contribute objectively to put the country in the background and justify its policy of national decline. They are the same ones that left the country in the grave situation of economic and social retrogression in which they are presenting a motion of rejection to the Government Programme. We will reject the rejection! Our answer is unequivocal: we will vote against it! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] We will vote against this because we want to keep open the window of hope that the struggle of workers and populations has opened. A vote of refusal that goes against the will expressed by the Portuguese people, which stated, with their prolonged struggle and then with their vote, the imperative need to ensure the interruption of the disaster that has been pursued in the country. I vote that, unquestionably, is the sign and expression of the will to stop with the destruction of the country, of aspiration for a better life, in Portugal with a future! in the programme presented by the PS Government, it affirms the desire to reverse the policy direction of recent years and the purpose of change that we want life to confirm. This is, of course, not our programme. It would not be necessary, recognized as programmatic differences, that the PS Government Programme corresponded to the set of options and policies that we identified as necessary to give a solid answer to the structural issues that the country faces and that PSD and CDS have made exponentially worse. But it is a Programme that welcomes contributions from the CFP, resulting from a convergence effort to find answers and solutions that could correspond to the premeditating interests and aspirations of Portuguese workers and people who have been reflected in the joint position of the PS and the CFP on political solution. It is the appreciation of convergence that we continue, seriously and earnestly, to favour. And it was the degree of this convergence that allowed the degree of commitment that, concretely, will translate an improvement in the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u129	I am committed to opening up the possibility of, inter alia, taking steps in the return of wages and incomes, restoring the reform complements of workers in the state's business sector, raising salaries and preventing the continued degradation of pensions, restoring some of the social benefits subject to the condition of resources, restoring the retired holidays, ensuring better conditions for access to the right to health and education, reversing the procedures for granting and privatizing public transport undertakings. in this process, we do not mislead differences or omit the distinct view in the response to patent contradictions in Portuguese reality, namely those that are related to the need to promote robust economic growth, with job creation and more investment, in a framework of internal and external constraints that are, in our view, a manifest vested force impeding the pursuit of these objectives and the realization of a sovereign development. The step now taken is an important step towards curbing the most unbridled offensive these years and that we want and hope to be a safanan in the policy of the inevitability that surrounds the lives of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u131	This is a solution for which no one has excluded his ideological and political independence and his own programme, but where there is the mutual guarantee and the common commitment to contribute to ensuring the country another course of economic development and social progress. The possibility now being opened does not only deny how it confirms the necessity of achieving a patriotic and left-wing policy, as the one that the CFP defends, persisting in the struggle for its recognition with our people as the great solution to the problems of the country. A policy that returns to the country what is in the country, able to create wealth and realize its fairest distribution, another fiscal policy that has the rights of workers to the same matrix as the Constitution enshrines and projects, which in terms of education, health, science and culture is based on a concept not of expenditure but of investment in the future, which overcomes constraints and affirms national sovereignty. With the same seriousness and sincerity with which we have been in the process, we will be serious and sincere in valuing convergence or in affirming the difference and divergence, reaffirming that our main commitment is with the workers and the people. We are aware that the people do not demand or want everything at once, but also do not want anything to be changed to keep it all the same. The times ahead are times of great demand, but also of confidence that it is possible to build a more just, more supportive and more developed Portugal. in this, the PCP will engage in its action and its fight. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u132	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister — not elected — of the Government of Portugal... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u134	See that the word 'democratic' is still part of the name of your party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u135	I should like to thank you for letting the honourable Member continue the closure. [[Pause.]] I would ask you not to engage in dialogue and let Mr Telmo Correia develop his reasoning. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u136	I say 'unelected', because the opposite of 'unelected' is 'elected', it is the one who won the elections for Prime Minister, and this is called Pedro Passos Coelho and is sitting on the parliamentary bench. I thought there was no doubt about that. But soon! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] At the end of these two days of debate, Prime Minister, we can conclude that this discussion contains a certain contradiction: on the one hand, a clarifying debate, it leaves many doubts at the same time. It is clarifying, because there is no doubt at this time about the positions and the role of each of the political forces represented in this Chamber, as well as who will be responsible for the path and the options we now take. from this point of view, this debate was very clarification. But it is also a debate that leaves many doubts. Doubts about the robustness of this new parliamentary majority; doubts about the political stability that they can guarantee; and doubts, above all, about the direction that will be followed and its results. As far as the doubts about robustness and stability are concerned, it is also curious to see, in recent days, that the service commentators of the new majority do nothing but try to condition and insinuate that, on the day the management breaks, they will have to be the parties of the coalition to support this government and this Prime Minister. [[PCP protests.]] Even from the leadership of the Socialist Party, we heard yesterday—it is true that in the midst of many clichéd language and sometimes even a little offensive—the call for the collaboration of the opposition. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] I ask you, does it make any sense? So you say that you have come, and I quote you, to « turn the page», change everything, create the « new time» — Mário Centeno dit (not being « new man» is already a luck...) — and at the same time want our collaboration for this? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We, who have recovered the country from your bankruptcy, we, who have made the economy grow and unemployment descend, are we that we will be responsible for your options? Does it make any sense? Do you have any logic? Don't! Disecut yourself. The gentlemen chose the course, chose your fellow roadmen, chose the route and the speed. What we can say is: good trip! Good trip and that there are no accidents, because your accidents and your recklessness usually pay are the Portuguese. That's what happened last time. Let's hope it doesn't repeat the next one. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And now, with friendship even, let me tell you very sincerely the following: and let the journey be brief. [[PSD's CDS-PPe's laughs.]] What, then, is the main conclusion of this debate? For this conclusion, I would use a popular expression, of those well-pleasing to Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, who likes so much popular aphorisms. It is a popular expression in which we can conclude what is happening here. It says the people, in their wisdom, and it is obvious, that «what is born wrong late or never goes right». And this solution is born cake. It is born cake, because it is led by those who have lost the elections; it is born cake, because the parliamentary solution found has never been the knowledge of the voters, nor has it ever been assumed before the voters;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u137	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u138	... is born cake, because it does not satisfy essential guarantees, namely those referred to by the President of the Republic; it is born cake, because of the four parties involved none of the others is even available to enter the Government; it is born cake, because it bases its sustainability on wrong agreements and joins parties that have different views or even opposites either of national interest or of European integration. The PS says now that a 40-year-old wall has fallen. I would say: first, they could have told the voters this fact—it wasn't bad! ... ; second, from an ideological point of view, the wall is there, as solid as it has always been. The wall didn't fall. What fell was the PS to the other side of the wall! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That's why, sirs. Members, that the presentation of a motion for rejection is the logical consequence of this political position. If we consider this illegitimate solution; if we do not agree with the options, much less with the consumption shock they propose; if we consider that this Programme contains a serious risk for the future of Portugal, we vote against it. What's the question? to the least informed, it should be recalled once again that if the Government Programme was not subject to a motion of rejection, and since Mr Prime Minister did not have the political courage to present a motion of confidence, he would not even be voted on. Therefore, the motion for rejection is an exercise of transparency and political clarity. It contrasts, moreover, with your separate agreements, signed at the closed door.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u140	They wanted an invitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u141	It is clear, therefore, that we are not on your "boat", that there is a political frontier and that we will not be held responsible for the mistakes that you are preparing to make. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr António Costa also addressed a surprising question yesterday to Mr Luís Montenegro. He said : and then, if the motion of rejection was approved, what would happen? What was the consequence? Mr. Prime Minister, the consequence is obvious: the government fell and who ruled was the prime minister that the Portuguese chose, that is, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho. What's the question? What's the question? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] If the motion of rejection were approved, that would be the consequence. And we reject it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because the doubts of consistency... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a little silence and allow the speaker to develop his speech. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister — not elected — and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the government, we reject because the doubts of consistency are serious. Europe, which was, and is, and is, the construction and work of socialists, social democrats and Christian Democrats (from Adenauer to Brandt to Kohl and the Mitterrand ), is not a matter of the past, it is not a matter solved. Europe will be the day-to-day choice of our options and our political choices. I recall, by the way, the time when then Mr António Costa, addressing former Member Francisco Louçã, did not leave any doubt that there was no possibility of understanding with those who did not believe or share European values. The PCP, justice is done to him, and the Left Block has not changed its opinion. Whoever changed his mind was Dr. António Costa, that is, the occasion made the change of opinion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u144	That's all jealousy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u145	Mr President, on the subject of citations and as a Member of the CDS, I would like to remind you of an even more interesting one. in a parliamentary debate, the then parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party said in 2002 to a member of the CDS. I quote Dr. António Costa, at that time: « however... » — said Dr. António Costa — «... it is appropriate that the CDS-PP, however strange it may seem, realize that whoever won the elections was the PSD and that this is why it has all the legitimacy to govern. "It's not bad! — « You are not in government because of victory, but because of the weakness of the PSD (...) ». It should be remembered that the PSD at the time had won the elections with more than 40% of the votes; Dr. António Costa now had little more than 30%. Further forward, he said: « The PSD needs the CDS-PP ». And, in his language, Dr. António Costa, always nice, curving and pleasant for the CDS-PP, said the then PS parliamentary leader: « The CDS-PP is a kind of bench that the PSD uses to reach the government and get higher ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u146	Now it's not even a banquet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u147	The PS parliamentary leader was Dr. António Costa, the CDS member was myself. Now, Mr Galamba, we will apply this thesis and this concept to the current government and the current majority. How is the current government and the current majority: two docks, two small docks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u148	That's three of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u149	...one of them with a fake leg, separated from each other,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ...in balance, and now the Prime Minister, much smaller than he was at the height, in a jigajoga to see if he can balance himself over the two benches. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It was because of this weakness that you in very little time, without any weighting, swallowed everything that, in terms of fracturing proposals, the radical left put you on the plate; they eliminated, in an apex, the evaluation of students and the scrutiny of teachers, leaving without any need of merit the teaching system, in a concession to FenPROF and an ideological vision, committing an attack on the future of our children;... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] ... have delivered, or are about to deliver, the urban transport sector to the CGTP and to the interests of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u150	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u151	What will this radicalism cost the Portuguese? [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP, the way they are dealing with this process is very curious: solidarity, how much is enough, here ; challenger, whenever possible, out there. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We all remember, Mr. Prime Minister, his famous and original race between a donkey and a Ferrari. But why did I remember this now? Because the tactic here is old and has to do with it: it's the tactics of the carrot and the whip. Cenoura in here, whip out there and on the street is what you can expect from CGTP. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This debate, if it has already raised many doubts, adds other doubts. First, because it is not normal for a finance minister to arrive here and not have a number either on GDP or on unemployment or on anything else. It is the «new time», probably the author of the famous poster, but it is not normal for the Minister of Finance to have a single number. On the other hand, it is interesting to note that the CFP, in this debate, no longer asks about nationalisations and that the Left Block no longer asks about debt restructuring. It's over, it's changed, they don't want to know about these things anymore. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u152	That intervention must have been written last Monday!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u153	It is also very curious that we heard a member of the Left Block yesterday telling us that this was the debate... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot conclude this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u154	But the honourable Member has to conclude, because he has outlived his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u155	Mr President, I am always being interrupted, which is more difficult to conclude. You have to have some tolerance for me. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u156	It has a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u157	Yesterday, we heard a member of the Left Block say that this was the most expected debate in the last 40 years. I could have said it in the last 100 years, but that would send us to Afonso Costa, instead of António Costa. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] It's the same cost. He also participated in geriatrics, but it's not the same thing! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] But he spoke in 40 years. 40 years ago, we were at PREC. I understand what Mr. Pedro Soares meant. What Mr meant was that this is the leftmost and most radical government for 40 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u158	I ask you to conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u159	That is what the honourable Member has said and I even agree with you because, apart from the socratic tragedy, this government is social-communist. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Most of us have ruled in the centre, made the electoral campaign in the centre, won the elections in the centre, and it is at the centre that we will be opposed to this radical and social-communist government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u161	We shall address — and I conclude, Mr President — all Portuguese: those who voted in the coalition and all the moderates who did not vote in the coalition...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u162	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u163	... because we know well, as the greatest statesman of the past century said, that « Not success is definitive, nor failure is fatal. What counts is courage(...) ». And that one, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we won't miss you. [[On your feet, applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u164	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The XXI Constitutional Government is now gaining final legitimacy. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Here in the Assembly of the Republic, in this constitutional body in the fullness of its functions, a plural mirror of the free and informed choices of citizens and citizens and with the legitimacy of the support of the majority of deputies and deputies in office. As in all the legislative elections, Members and Members were elected, but after all the interventions on the right we can only conclude that PSD and CDS did not know what they were going to be and thought they were going to elect a Prime Minister. We can only conclude that. It is true that in this debate the bitterness of the virulent speech of PSD and CDS has not gone beyond, and that from now on we will vote on the motion for a rejection. But that is not what will mark this debate nor will it define the new political cycle that now begins. Not that this motion of rejection has no interest! But it is not presented with conviction, first by convenience. They say it is motivated by the need to clarify the political scenario. But clarify what? Oh, my God! The position of the PSD or CDS? Don't! They intend to clarify the position of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens! But where have you been since October 4th? Oh, my God! Did you not understand who stood up to reject your continuation in the government for weeks? After all, it is not an act of PSD or CDS affirmation, it is an act of desistence. It is the epitaph that they want to put on the psd/CDS government stone of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas. It is not a motion of rejection, it is a motion of regret. Speaking of friends, who are so dear to the irrevocable ex-Vice, after four years in which the state of the relationship was « it is complicated», PSD and CDS were suddenly disengaged by the vast majority of voters and have not yet complied with the matter. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] They've got time to settle! If you allow me a simple opinion, the path they are taking is an unbalanced path. They don't need to get upset with the election results, they're part of democracy. And it doesn't help to torture numbers, 122 will always be bigger than 107! If you turn into a resentful minority, no one will understand you. [[PSD protests.]] If what marks the right-wing intervention is the fel you felt in this debate, you will not be excused. Besides, your story won't forgive you. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, Francisco Sá Carneiro launches your challenge. Listen to him: "Most have changed peacefully, legally and honestly by voting. And the majority of yesterday, who are today's minorities, accepted without violence the country's judgment". How much worse is this PSD that rejects facing the election result! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, do you still remember Adelino Amaro da Costa? I'll get one of your phrases back. He said that «the moderates use the change to avoid rupture». But this path is so different from that. And now what does Paulo Portas propose to the CDS? That rejects change and radicalizes. The despair and the complaint from the right will be your own purgatory along the Legislature. Whoever doesn't learn from history will end up in history. We have even had voices from the PSD and CDS announcing that they will vote against everything, such is resentment. Or will they again be irrevocable positions, Mr. Paulo Portas? Oh, my God! Because that's the tradition of PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Goethe said that "the world is so big and so rich and life so full of variety that there will never be lack of motivation for poems. But they must always be circumstantial poems, i.e. reality must provide them with motive and matter.' That is the challenge we face. This cannot be a circumstantial period, nor can circumstantial period be the government, nor does Parliament. The reality provides us with motive and matter and reality has been very hard for the vast majority of people. That is why an agreement has been reached that has united different parties and that is why the way that this government is now making possible has been made. That is why what will remain for history is the viability of this government and not its rejection or the right-wing rejection motion. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] This stage of political life is new, it is true, it has debate, necessarily, but it has commitment and that is the main foundation. The agreement is the guarantee that the page will be turned to the cycle of impoverishment and that it must be materialized quickly. This is the commitment and will of the Left Block. But it is also the requirement of those who despaired about the austerity of the difficult lives of whom PSD and CDS left behind, of the future adjourned or of the shared families. The arc of the Constitution must quickly feel in people's concrete lives. The road has already begun: replacement of income and wages, defrosting pensions, defending families, more fiscal justice. These are some of the examples contained in the agreements and which the Government Programme already provides. It is pressing its execution. We need to deepen the programme dimension of the agreement and there is still much to do. The proposed working groups mark this path and account for priorities, always for the improvement of people's concrete lives. The preparation of a national plan against precariousness is a priority. To put an end to the permanently postponed futures, to life always in suspense, to the permanent devaluation of competences, to the underestimation of labour rights. It is the answer to such heroes as the rapper Capicua, who have « everything that is study, zero employment», and which the right has made even more precarious. We cannot miss that urgency and here we are to take that path. The demanding debate on the structure of social protection and the fight against the scourge of poverty is also essential. in a country where poverty has spread with the imposition of austerity, particularly among children, it is time to return to modernity and public policies with social awareness. We have to give an answer to whom the right has left behind. The working group on energy costs that weigh on families is explained to itself, such is the violence with which energy costs have grown and the abuse of companies has been permitted, or the response, for example, to the fundamental right to housing, with a fair taxation of real estate, ensuring that no more families are left homeless for tax debts, nor that housing credit continues to be a profitable business of the bank at the expense of family stability. These are essential points where we will deepen the agreement, where we will continue to give shape to the hope that people have deposited in this post-troika and post-right future. And we will not sweep down the hard stuff, because we know that they do not disappear, and that therefore they have to be confronted. The sustainability of public debt and external debt in particular is one of the problems that the country has to face and, therefore, we will exchange views, discuss the problem with knowledge and reach commitments to solve it. That is the rule of this new political cycle. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 21st Constitutional Government is now in full compliance with its rights. It will be the Government of all and all Portuguese and all they represent. It is a government strengthened by a demanding position of the Assembly of the Republic. in this new political cycle, the Assembly of the Republic will no longer be a government resonance box, as it has been for four years. I don't say it as a threat, but rather as a comfort. A demanding Parliament helps a good government and that is how it must happen. There is no parliamentary government on the table. It is not constitutionally possible, nor politically acceptable. This is indeed a relationship of two sovereign bodies in favour of the interests of people, with well-known and transparent convergence points. That is our commitment and that is where they will find us. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u166	For an intervention, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u167	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The new government will soon assume its full powers. The Assembly of the Republic has its own right to speak. And the word of this Parliament, which is the result of the Portuguese will, is the one that has been expressed here in an unequivocal way: the confidence of the majority of the people's representatives in the new government solution. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] Yes, of the people! Because it is both the people who vote on the right and the people who vote on the left. To think otherwise is to depopulate representative democracy. [[Congratulations from the PS, the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Portugal is now equipped with a legitimate and qualified government to meet the difficult challenges facing it internally and in its European and international participation. We count on the government's ability and confident determination to overcome them. But today it is time to reinforce that this determination is in line with the enthusiasm that the Socialist Members in this Parliament are facing their mission and, as has already been reaffirmed, that the Members of the parties who share this legitimizing moment with us have committed themselves and will commit themselves. The 21st Government has in this House a majority support, corresponding to a majority of votes cast in the last elections, a support which in its plurality has an appreciation factor. What is right, and it is proven today, is that this majority of change is not satisfied with the change of government, but it also conjugated to the construction of a change of policy. The presentation of a motion to reject the Government's programme by the parties on the right precisely reinforces that conjugation and, in the reply given to it, constitutes a living demonstration of the robustness with which we set out for this change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The political stability that strengthens the country is not synonymous with a political immutability that would weaken it. Destroying can be an unwise act, but building, as in our case, is a premeditation of better times, even though involved in a first time of transformation and learning. This was the greatest meaning of the pioneering agreements signed between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, as well as the dialogue that has been exercised with the representation of the NAP. It is this common enthusiasm in a new policy that encourages us, commits us to a continuous dialogue that mobilizes us and strengthens the expectations of stability and success on the way to doing this legislature. Here we are, together, not for a desire for power or for party whims, but for Portugal and for a better future for the Portuguese. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and, of course, the government do not understand the opposition as an enemy, because they have no enemies among the Portuguese. Unfortunately, until recently and during the debates, the negative signs of the minority coalition have multiplied, showing an ever more interested opposition to the personal confrontation and institutional disregard of a government which is only that, and which could only be, by the will of democratic institutions. [[P, BE and PCP applause.]] We never think that the role reserved for opposition is just to oppose. We will therefore constantly seek consensus, aware of its value for the quality of decisions and for national mobilization. Neither the Government nor the PS will be cantoned in the legitimacy achieved or irreducible in its reasons. We know that democracy does not confine itself to electoral acts, nor does the parties provide the necessary scope for participation. It is therefore up to us to be with the Portuguese more and more. This desired proximity is not limited to dialogue with all parliamentary forces and does not exclude, on the contrary, require a productive and stable contractualization with the generality of the social partners, seeking, in this participatory methodology, an effective means of dialogue and better implementation of policies. We therefore stress in our Government's Programme the importance 'to resume the dynamism of social dialogue at all levels', emphasizing social dialogue and, of course, the protection and enhancement of its own institutional environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Among other factors that have contributed to the discredit of politics and to the removal of citizens is certainly the labyrinthic opacity of the origin and the reasons for decisions that are made and that have an effect on the lives of citizens. It is important to reverse these trends, so in its Programme the Government, by advocating a strong, intelligent and modern state, simultaneously fights for an improved state in the quality of democracy. In favour of this quality, which has recently been damaged by austerity extended to citizen participation, there are other means that it is important to be within the reach of people and businesses, ranging from the resumption of the modernization and simplification of procedures at the most varied levels, the opportunities of the information society, the adoption, for example, of a participatory budget at the level of the State budget, to new forms of prevention and combat without hindrance to corruption and abuse of power that undermine the decision and confidence or aspects of our freedoms as decisive as those of public security or the most unfortunate and speedy access to court decisions. It is important to involve Portuguese and their organisations in a generalised and entrepreneurial participation, which helps to define, recreate and perform tasks which should not be confined to the sole judgment and action of the political power in a restricted sense. Despite these emergencies, it is good to remember that there are thousands and thousands of Portuguese people who ‘make democracy’ every day, who play a vital role in the community dynamics, generating and managing strong driving impulses up to what we can call ‘pure politics’, together with the truth of things and things that are true. They do so in the regional and autarchical political representation, in many hundreds of institutions for social solidarity, in youth and environmental intervention organizations, in cultural and sporting entities, in organizations for training and scientific dissemination and knowledge, in means of business and trade union representation, in schools, at university or in social communication, in a drive that moves the country. It is therefore up to us all to feel this social respiration and to give it contents in the decision-making processes that relate to life and public interest. It is necessary to break with the latest practice of sovereignty and self-sufficiency of the political power of the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The change we are fighting must bring with us the Portuguese who have been removed, who have drifted away or who have simply ceased to believe in politics and politicians. Strengthening citizenship is not therefore simply a slogan appropriate to this occasion. It is an absolute necessity, especially when we want to end a period when millions of Portuguese have been left behind, struck by a culture of austerity which has generated the inability to provide for the need and which has popularized the preconceived idea, in a country where more than two million Portuguese live in material deprivation that the solidarity State is a perdulatory State. Neither the PS nor the government lack solidarity with those who lack it. Neither the Government nor the Socialist Party disregard the rigor and seriousness that the country's governance needs. The Portuguese can therefore count on us. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the PS and the government is the future that matters. The new starting point, of course, is hampered by the unproductive results of a policy which has continued without brakes and without consideration of its own negative consequences. The task is therefore difficult and laborious, so that we can get rid of a disheartening journey that has harmed so many and benefited so few. That is why we are here: for, as the Prime Minister says, we will achieve « more growth, better employment, more equality». We will all work to have a friendly state for people and businesses. A State which is responsible for increasing the income available to families and combating poverty, housing insufficiency, inequalities and precariousness, ensuring health care, sustainability of social security and the "trust agreement" involving the pension system. A State paying attention to the creation of policies conducive to private investment and to the financing of enterprises, the redirection and reproducibility of public investment, the sound management of public finances and budgetary consolidation, the effective regulation of important sectors such as financial sectors. A State committed to supporting culture and understanding that there is no more investment in sustainability, economic competitiveness and social training than investment in science, education and human capital. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] We will all work to have a State that is aware of the unsuitable tasks of environmental sustainability and preponderance in the territory of sectors such as agriculture and forest, as well as the national priority that constitutes the affairs of the sea. A State that, relying on the Portuguese, trusts decentralization throughout the territory,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which invests in the enhancement of the political autonomy of the Azores and Madeira, those regions that have been ignored, neglected or even often faced in the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the competence of Portuguese diplomacy, not only in the European institutional space, is to be re-used, where they now address the Portuguese budgetary questions and those of security and terrorism, such as the re-launching of the CPLP in the affirmation of Portuguese Lusophonia and communities abroad, in the Ibero-American area or in decisive aspects of the protection of national interests such as the re-evaluation of the Transatlantic Partnership on Trade and Investment. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, reaffirming that we have the necessary parliamentary support and we will certainly have the goodwill and sense of national interest on the part of all. We have the strength of the majority of the Portuguese, who voted in the parties that support the government, and a great inner force to honor the support that has been and will be lent to us. Paraphrasing a previous Prime Minister, we expect from the opposition a relationship of trust, responsibility and openness. It is time to overcome the expense and invocation of past attributes. It's time to rebuild. Time to move forward. It is at this time that the ambition of the Socialist Party dwells. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u168	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor for one speech. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u169	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government and Mr. Head of Government, Mrs. Members: This is the appropriate time and place to make the political balance of the process launched after the October elections and to look forward to the future. I begin by recalling the most obvious element for all Portuguese, but also the most embarrassing for those who support the current government. The Portugal Front coalition was the political training that most votes and mandates deserved in the voters' preferences. For this reason, the common sense, aligned with democratic practice, since it was established in the Third Republic, stated that the coalition had won the elections, meaning that it should be responsible for governing, even if for this it needed to strengthen dialogue with other political forces represented in Parliament. It was this relative majority, obtained in the elections by the coalition, that was at the origin of the formation of the XX Constitutional Government. It is well known that early on, the defeated elections had been returned to Mr. President of the Republic, claiming that he would not waste time giving possession to those who had won the elections, since they had finally discovered another electoral winner, an unexpected winner. This winner had not gone to the vote, since he was separated by a wall built about 40 years ago, which prevented voters from being able to identify as such and therefore from being able to choose directly and consciously. Since such a wall could be about to be demolished after the elections, elected Members could indirectly, replacing themselves with voters, conforming to the new winner and generating a majority, stable and consistent solution. As Mr President of the Republic did not understand the extraordinary historical scope, carried by the winner-surprising that was then revealed, the elected Members reinterpreted the mandate of the electors and decided to open a political crisis, overthrowing the Government out of the elections in Parliament and imposing a new government on the country and the President of the Republic, whose parliamentary investment today materializes. With this they turned the negative majority that they used to overthrow the former government into a positive majority that supports the new government and that it fully bears responsibility for it, even if it steals from the formal approval of a motion of confidence. And this is the genetic mark of this new government, so to speak, its original sin. This government, as well as its Chief,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u170	Chief? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u171	...have not been chosen by the people, have been chosen by the Members on behalf of the people... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] At the very least, this only leads to the moral political imperative to present a motion for a rejection of the respective Programme. To the contrary, that is, even electoral proof that you deny it, all — Government, Head of Government and supporters — risk being seen as those who, soon after the elections, replaced the people, usurping the choice which it had made in a sovereign way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, let us be clear, democratic exercise not only allows these audacitys, as responsibility and, in due course, does not stop judging those who undertake them. For my part, I live well with the democratic exercise. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u172	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u173	Despite knowing that I have won the elections and felt that I was chosen by the people to continue to be Prime Minister, I will not fail to respect the will of the Members and to play my role in the new political environment, alongside all those who, like me, presented themselves with the project of the coalition Portugal to Front. It is the reserve and alternative role of government, which already consists on the determined, serious and responsible opposition that the people will now wait for us to be. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also useful to remember that the new cycle which now starts comes from a conscious choice of the Socialist Party. It was the PS that wanted to combine itself with extreme-left radicalisms, preeminent a larger majority, based on pro-European and pro-Atlantic. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u174	Indeed, there is a certain political cynicism in claiming that we fail in the task of building a majority government solution, when those who make the accusation are the same as those who refuse to contribute to such a solution being achieved. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in fact, the accusation does not pass from a simulation, attempting to induce the idea that we will only have a government led by socialists in Portugal, because those who had the electoral burden of building the natural solution were unable to do so. It is appropriate to say: "It is not necessary to conceal! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u175	This government happened to the previous one, because the PS, even though it lost the elections, refused to make one viable to be able to lead the other. by doing so, he made an obvious choice for voters, I admit that even for many of his voters, and he placed himself in the position of favoring a sum of minorities who, to be self-sufficient, as this one has the strict obligation of being, cannot hide, or disguise, the anti-European roots, not to say anti-social market economy and monolytic pendant. Many might relativize this position, being tempted to consider that, more than a programmatic choice, it was only a question of power, that is, there is a simulation here too, appearing to be a break-down of walls, reintegrator and regenerating of the left, when it is only desperately aimed at grasping the opportunity to get to the government and exercise power. I must say that I do not follow this excusing reading. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the socialist leader say categorically that the left was, and I quote: "Capacity to understand what is essential". It is well noted that "what is essential" can only, by definition, be what is most important and structural, as opposed to the accessory or conjuncural. When socialists and communists decide that structural reforms must be reversed in the labour market or in product markets, including, for example, reverse privatisations and concessions or impose collective bargaining results on the generality of companies irrespective of the criterion of representativeness, we are talking about structural matters that are important and essential. Also when they say that the policy of educational requirement needs to be reversed, by removing elements of individual and systemic evaluation such as the tests and examinations at the end of the cycle, we are talking about fundamental issues for the quality of the education process and for strengthening the qualifications of young people and of tomorrow's assets. [[Perfectly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u176	We are also talking about the true equality of opportunities, since when public school is less demanding or facilitating it harms the most deprived, which will be deprived of standards of quality requirement. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Facilitation helps to perpetuate inequalities, as the socially most favoured can always pay for a more selective and demanding education. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u177	However, when they talk about the removal of so-called austerity measures, process, in fact, already started in 2014, we are not talking about anything structural, only the opportunity to normalize a situation whose need was brought about by the exceptionality of the financial emergency period. Of course, I do not know that the parties that support the government today force the importance of the subject for purely populist reasons, insisting on the lie that austerity had an ideological root. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u178	Even when we remember that it was precisely the socialists who first reduced wages and social benefits, increasing VAT and other taxes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u180	... and promising to reduce pensions in payment, the answer is overwhelming, but it is what it is, and prays so: socialist austerity was not ideological, first, because it was not desired and, second, because it was forced by the exceptional circumstances of the time it knocked at the door and finished, from PEC in PEC to the final Memorandum; already the austerity of the last four years, no, this was excessive, because it had to be greater than that of the socialists and because it was — they say erroneously — in addition to the troika, then it can only have been ideological and applied with cruel pleasure. However, austerity is always what it is: a necessary evil with the extent imposed by the reality of the facts, when the politicians who precede them do not have sufficient responsibility to avoid their conduct. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now that such measures can be progressively removed, it is also not for ideological reason that they will pass into history, it is because there was the courage, as necessary as criticized, to implement the appropriate policies. I just hope that too much volunteerism, which seems to speed up the pace of the removal of such measures, will not lead to new sacrifices, forced by budgetary recklessness and a desire to create an impression of kindness. This is also the case with the reduction of the deficit and the strong possibility of leaving the excessive deficit procedure. The aim considered so important by the new government will only be within reach of the country because many policies, which so many critics deserve from the parties that support the government today, have been executed decisively by those who have preceded it. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u181	I hope, too, that the same will will will not undermine the efforts made by the Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u182	It is noted that in these measures, the continuation of the removal of austerity and the continuation of the reduction of the excessive deficit, there seems to be no complete agreement between the parties that support the government. But this does not take greater importance, given the transitional and conjuncural nature of the measures. As long as the objectives can be pursued to a greater or lesser extent, differences between the various parties must be taken to account of the most superficial issue, where differences can create the illusion that different visions of the world are maintained when, in fact, they agree on the essential. And the essential thing for these parties is that the economy evolves into a more intervening State in the organization and business structure, strengthening the power of the CGTP and other pressure groups and recreating a protectionist influence that brings to the public sphere the management and control of the relevant activity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u183	Such is the respect of the social partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u184	As for our participation in the European project and our insertion into the euro, I find it difficult to clearly understand what category the parties supporting the government are setting up. Will it be a matter of substance, structural, which deserves a strong understanding? If so, what does it mean to take such an understanding and what consequences will it have for Portuguese people in the European Union? What is the prevailing view? The traditional socialists, or the traditional left radical parties? Or still a match, how did it happen in Greece with Syriza? The alternative is to assume that the European issue is not part of the essential core of understanding between the parties supporting the government, which I do not know improves the perspective. in this case, we will have to admit that the European issue is secondary to national strategies, which changes a lot in the traditional position of any of these parties, but it can even more, and negatively, change for the Portuguese, who over many years have seen membership of the European Union and the euro as an essential project to the modernity of the country and to the progress of Portuguese society and economy. Whatever the answer that time comes to reveal us remains the conviction demonstrated by the socialist leader, stating that he trusts the CFP as a partner in support of governance and that he agrees with it essentially. And this is also an objective reason to chum the Programme of this Government. Not for any intention to exclude this or other party from democratic dialogue or to prevent pluralism and diversification of alternatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u185	It's just out of anger with the communists!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u186	... but because, essentially of what we know of the political values of these party forces and of the projection that we can make for their views of the State, of the economy and of society, not only do we not agree with them, as we oppose them and we continue to oppose them, as do most Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Socialist Party led a radical drift negotiation and therefore leads this majority that supports the new government. in this context, this new PS decided to move away from its historical political heritage and feels close, essentially, to the ideas it has fought the most in the past. We respect that choice and reality. But the PS has moved towards a sharing of ideas and values that radically separates itself from the generality of the citizens, not by opportunism but by conviction, only reinforces the justification for the presentation of this motion of rejection, submitted by those who, in the moderate centre, must have the responsibility to organize an alternative of government for Portugal that meets the aspirations of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the perspective we have on the economic and social situation we face in the country has not changed. The challenges and objectives important to Portugal remain, despite the governmental choice. All the more so, we can say that it will become much more difficult to reach them and overcome them through the choices reflected in the Government Programme. Portugal and the Portuguese have spent a lot in recent years and have made even more efforts to supplant the restrictions and strong imbalances which, for years at a time, have sent public finances and the economy to unsustainability, stagnation and pre-bancarrot. Four years after a difficult adjustment process, the Portuguese managed to correct the trajectory and forge new balances, without which there would be no support from the social state or growth generating jobs. Portugal has also succeeded in closing the assistance programme, ensuring access to market finance well before any less conventional policy developed by the European Central Bank ( ECB ) and without needing new financial assistance subject to conditionality, recovering its autonomy and, indeed, recovering external credibility with the « clean output ». We know, however, that the difficulties we face are still great. Unemployment is still too high. The public and private debt stock is a big weight that makes it difficult to grow faster, and any trend in this area involves risks of financial stress which, in the absence of housing policies of the ECB, can hinder access to finance or increase its cost, with damage to the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u187	Bad, everything was so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u188	On the other hand, improving competitiveness requires the continuation and deepening of structural reform policies. in this area, our connection to the European Union is critical, not to say strategic, in the formulation of the national interest. Now, what this Government Programme announces to us and what the political attitude of the parties that support it translates is the opposite of what Portugal needs in order to grow and develop in the European framework which I have just described. Although speeches speak of the need for compliance with the budget treaty and the rules of the European Semester, actions are worth more than many words. We will see that the evaluation of our European partners and our creditors will, in due course, make a reversal of structural measures, coupled with an adventurous and experimental budgetary policy. But, above all, in a country which has no capital to grow and which needs direct external investment, the measures which are announced, with socialist and communist support, can only remove investors and economic agents, penalizing the growth of the potential gross domestic product and hindering the effectiveness of budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u189	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude, because you have already exceeded the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u190	I shall finish, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, reaffirming the principles that will guide my party, now in opposition as before in the government. Being a determined, serious and responsible opposition, we will assert-CL - against everything that represents a retrocession or an attack on the modern, open, cosmopolitan, competitive, demanding, reformist and just country that we defend for Portugal, without fail to support everything that promotes this positive view of Portuguese society. They will also not count on us to support any facade of cynicism, propaganda or concealment that undermines the values of transparency and dignity of democracy and its institutions. As far as government activity is concerned, I know that it is not on the account of the current rulers asking us to support the government. Good, because those who have lost the elections and refused to support those who have won have no political authority to claim support for them in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u191	Let's all burn in the depths of hell!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u192	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. I insist that we always assess at every moment what we consider most important for Portugal, irrespective of the will of the Government. on the day when our support can be decisive in achieving some essential result that the majority that supports the government is not able to guarantee only that they have the dignity of it withdrawing the natural consequence and returning the word to the people, so that it is, in fact, he himself to choose the future government of Portugal. [[On your feet, applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u194	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u195	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, allow me, in this first speech in Parliament, to tell you how honored I am to do so under the presidency of your Excellency. Allow me also to welcome, in your own person, all and all Members, without exception. I address to each and to each one the warmest congratulations for the election and wish the greatest success in the fulfilment of the mandate that the people sovereignly have entrusted to them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the process that began in the election of 4 October and culminates today, with the entry into office of the XXI Constitutional Government, marks a new stage in Portuguese parliamentary democracy. From now on, and for the first time, all votes and mandates count for the formation of governments. The primary function of the Parliamentary and Parliamentary, which is to represent their voters, has always been guaranteed. But the parliamentary composition also serves to determine the government and the governance of the country—and then the regime faced a limitation, not by law, but in fact, which made political representation asymmetric and prevented the nation from benefiting from the entire range of governance solutions. This limitation had no meaning and had the perverse effect of making the vote of many thousands of citizens irrelevant to the formation of governments. It was therefore an illegitimate limitation. The doctrine that sought to justify it, defending the existence of a supposed arc of governance that some political forces would be excluded from the start was and is unacceptable, because democracy is not an oligopoly. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The only arc that democracy must admit is the whole arc of plural representation, as wide as the electorate decides in each election. The end of the idea of the « arc of governance », which the political process which is now concluding means, therefore, the celebration of pluralist democracy in its fullness: the common space of all, in contrast to each one, represented by Parliament. Nothing else would happen and this success would be worth it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The composition of the XIII Legislation enabled the formation of a government supported by a parliamentary majority. That is to say, in this House there is a majority of support for a new government and of course there is a minority of opposition to that government. That is how democracy works. We are not in such an emergency situation that requires solutions in which the normal and healthy counterposition of majority and opposition, according to their ideological and political differences, should be placed between parentheses. The change that the country demands and the electorate has decided is only possible with a realignment of forces in this Parliament. the government is responsible for governing, cooperating institutionally with all sovereignty bodies and responding to the Assembly of the Republic. it has a parliamentary majority of support and a parliamentary minority of opposition. Both roles are essential and the quality of both the support and the opposition only have to benefit the government and the country. The parliamentary majority of government support is plural, of course. It consists of several parties, which agreed between themselves the political content and the temporary extension of support to a government and its programme. The content is defined by the set of policy measures and conciliation procedures that are detailed in written and public documents. The temporary extension is this Legislation. All of this has allowed the constitution and will allow the full functioning of a coherent, stable and credible government today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The majority of government support is plural—that is how the electorate wanted it. The joint positions that drew a common denominator and the framework of the new political solution did not dissolve the differences in identity, history and values between the participating parties. The same is true, I think, of passing from the side of the parliamentary minority, also made up of various parties, which will certainly not erase their differences. Most are plural as the minority is plural and both are plural as democracy is plural, plurality feeding and plurality enriching. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The so true phrase that Fernando Pessoa has left manuscript, addressed to himself — « Be plural as the universe» — well we could all, with full property, wear it, that we are here plural as society is plural, as plural is the Nation, as plural are the pleares are the energies and dreams that feed life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The delicacy of the country's situation, the diversity of interests and the plurality of opinions make a political culture essential based on dialogue, dialogue and commitment. I would like to remind you and repeat, at the conclusion of this debate, the assurances given by the Prime Minister, at his opening. The Government will pursue political and social dialogue by seeking to build a strategic and successive agreement with the social partners. And the Government will strongly engage in political dialogue with the parliamentary forces of the majority who support it and the minority who oppose it. It is not only necessary to turn the page of austerity, it is also necessary to turn the page of contempt or indifference to social consultation and obstacles to collective bargaining;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... and it is a mystery to turn the page of political self-sufficiency and the inability to build bridges and establish agreements. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There will be no kind of shopping on the part of the Government. Despite the clichés words spoken today by some Members. Members — comma — still known,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...I believe that there will be no future, on the side of opposition, no resentment and no cliché. It is that time is not for radicalizations but for commitments. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The only consequence of the overthrow of the sebe that excluded part of the popular representation of the possibility and responsibility of governance is that no sebe, now, remains: we are all indispensable. All the more, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the starting point for the new Parliament is difficult and demanding. As it was clear during this debate, the regime of fantasy and electoral illusionism to which the country was led last spring and summer had no basis. Soon it was found that the resolution of Banco Espírito Santo would effectively cost taxpayers, that there were more frailties not caught up in time in the financial system, that the promise of returning the overtax of the IRS was burning and choking and that the economy and employment were, and are far from any sustained growth trajectory. So we do not persist in the realm of fantasy. Portugal experiences many difficulties and the first thing to do to overcome them is to identify well its measure and its causes. The fact is that, unlike the apostles of austerity have always preached, Portugal has seen its public debt increase considerably and its financial system being shaken by a severe crisis. A fifth of the population is at risk of poverty. Inequities of income increased and cuts which were supposedly exceptional were extended beyond the duration of the adjustment programme—and more so if the Constitutional Court had allowed it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment has fallen and small and medium-sized enterprises have been suffocated by rising taxes and breaking domestic demand. The external balance benefited from exemplary resilience of companies and workers, particularly in the exporting sector, but still has no support, since it was excessively dependent on deep-consumption braking. The inventory could continue. But what matters is to all of us at the beginning of a new legislation, which was the result of the political vertigo of, as it was then said (and, by the way, it is no longer said ), « go beyond the troika ». This was the result of the inability to articulate fiscal consolidation policy with economic and social policy. So more than that, it would be the same. More than the same austerity policy would exacerbate the country's economic and budgetary situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need a new policy. Now, a new policy can only be pursued by those whose programme was to steer along the same path that was wrong, but by all those who are committed to following another path. The fundamental issues raised by the intervention of the opposition parties — always judicious, although sometimes overly nervous — can be summed up in three concerns, and the government must all respond. The first concern is with an alleged excessive weight of stimulus to consumption in the design of economic policy. I can reassure you: this feared excess simply does not exist. Of course, as the last trimesters have shown, the contribution of domestic demand is relevant and necessary for the growth of the Product. In addition, even before that, there is a moral dimension in the replacement of workers' and families' incomes, which cannot be forgotten or devalued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are those who say — and it has also been said here — that it is unwise to 'give more money' to employees and pensioners, as if the elimination of cuts in wages and pensions and the reduction of labour income taxes was a blessing granted by a benevolent government. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what happens is that workers and pensioners have been victims of deep cuts in their incomes, supposedly indispensable for a critical, exceptional and temporary moment. And the moment was supposed to have passed, and the cuts there were eternaling. When the 21st Government puts priority on speeding up the elimination of wage cuts and the overtax of the IRS, it does so not to give an "extra" but, yes, to return people as quickly as possible, what is from people and has been removed from them. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u196	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u197	The stimulus to domestic demand is necessary but is not sufficient to promote the sustained growth of national wealth. So much or more important is the intervention of the call on the supply side, or, more rigorously, on the side of the conditions of technology, internationalisation, qualification and administrative modernization and reduction of the costs of context, which structure on solid bases, yes, growth. It's not worth hiding, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what divides the current and previous parliamentary majority: on the right, it has always been said and defended that the path was impoverishment and deprotection. On the contrary, we understand that the right path to growth—and, therefore, to the balance of public accounts—is in more innovation, more connection between science and the economy, more technological incorporation, more productivity and greater internationalisation, whether from the point of view of exporting markets, or from the point of view of investment attraction. And that is why it is so crucial — I repeat, it is so crucial — the link between the ministries responsible for economic policy and foreign policy, so that the internationalisation of our economy is not a fire-of-view or political propaganda, but professional work, structured and continuous. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The second central concern expressed by the honourable Members. Members of the opposition were budgetary consolidation. It was persistently asked whether the 2015 budget deficit would fall below 3 %. And the answer is yes, but it depends on this government. on the basis of this government, Portugal will leave the excessive deficit procedure in 2016. And I am sure that the whole House will then recognize our contribution to trying by all means to achieve this true national goal in the short term in which we can intervene. The 2014 deficit was above 7 %; in the first half of this year, it almost reached 5 %; in the third quarter, the economy stagnated. One thing is right, ladies. Members: the old majority PSD-CDS, which failed its own budgetary objective in 2011, and in 2012, and in 2013, and in 2014, also failed—we already know it! — the target of 2, 7 % set by 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Five goals failed! It is Portugal (not the old majority) that needs, after so many failures, to be met the objective which is realistic and feasible for the current year: to close the deficit below 3 %. The last concern of the opposition concerns political climate and governmental stability. This concern deserves three comments. The first is that it seems to have no basis. It is entirely in line with the democratic game to form a government from the majority of Members. It is inconsistencies to proceed as if some had the prerogative to repeat an election whenever the result is not convenient for them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since it is reprehensible even what has sworn irrevocable, I suggest modestly that the resentment here and there be, too, removed without delay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then it is inconceivable to want to continue to divide the Portuguese, as if there were Portuguese first and second, integrable and untouchable, « us» and « them». [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This radical line of putting citizens against citizens was a watermark of the previous majority, with devastating results. Now we need exactly the opposite attitude. No, we don't put employees against the unemployed, new against the elderly, employees against private workers, assets against pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is time to unite; it is time to re-join what has been divided. The last comment to point out is that self-proclaimed healers of institutional and political stability are ultimately assets promoters of instability. For what purpose does the motion of rejection present? Don't you see if they cause the government to fall? And what alternative do you have to present in the current parliamentary framework? Of course, none and that's not what should be called destructive opposition or, as the people say, throw-down? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Elections — you heard here. Elections as soon as possible, several Members have called here. Do you call for such stability? Institutional respect? State sense? Defense of national interest? And now why do they not defend the advance fixing of the election result in caution? [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr President, I am now thinking mainly of all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who constitute the parliamentary majority of support on the horizon of the 21st Constitutional Government. But not exclusively. In other words, no one has questioned here the motto with which the Prime Minister has characterized our programmatic objectives: more growth, better employment, more equality. This is the determining reason for the mobilization of Portugal and all Portuguese. Mobilize to act. Can we accept that precariousness is the rule in the labour market? We can't. Can we accept that Community funds are still in the bureaucracies' drawers instead of being at the service of investment and qualification? We can't. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Can we accept the increase in inequality in incomes, the rise in the number of those at risk of poverty, the impoverishment of the middle class, the deprotection of the most vulnerable families? Can we accept that thousands of workers have lower annual incomes than the poverty line? Can we accept the drop in the minimum wage? And can we still accept the persistence of discrimination? We can't, we can't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And if we can't, we all have to act. The time is action, action in view of the future. The novelty of the present hour is that it bears hope. It is no longer a matter of conforming to a fate that others would like to decide for us, to say "we are not able", to "don't let us do", to judge that it is impossible to do what we have to do, even before taking care of whether it is possible or not. The word I can speak on behalf of the Government is a very clear word: we all need everyone to act in the European framework, which is ours, honouring the international commitments of the State, fulfilling the rules of the Monetary Union to which we belong and actively participating in the decision-making process that is under way in the European Union, and it also has to do with these rules, in that process defending the national interest. Acts, act collectively, act in respect for our differences, but act as a Nation that we are. We owe this to an entire society that has managed to react to the impact of a brutal crisis and no less brutal adjustment without breaking the social fabric and, before, strengthening many of the values and mechanisms of cohesion and solidarity that are so distinctly theirs. We must all mobilize to take advantage of the enormous potential of our scientific and technological system, our sea, our territory, our agriculture and our industry, tourism, peace, security and social stability that distinguishes us and distinguishes us. We must take full advantage of the strength of our language, the promotion of our culture, the excellence of our Public Administration, the professionalism of our Armed Forces and security forces, the competence of diplomacy, the connection with communities, our place and the unique role in the world as a bridge between Europe, the North Atlantic and the South Atlantic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have and we must act with prudence, moderation and gradualism, but we must act. Returning hope to the Portuguese by action. by action, overcome resentment and clispation, bring people together. The plurality of party representation and the diversity of social and political interests are not obstacles, but rather food for action. They qualify for public debate, make the scrutiny of government acts more effective, better link political institutions to the needs and hopes of the people. They allow this diversity and plurality and also allow, by the confrontation where it is necessary to confront, by the agreement where it is possible to agree, a new culture of dialogue and commitment that is absolutely essential for the hope felt to translate into the progress that justifies it. This stage of the debate is over. The Government listened carefully to all comments, applause and criticism, support and reservations. A new stage is now being opened, where a responsibility will certainly unite us all: the responsibility to act. Acting on behalf of Portugal and Portuguese, acting on behalf of Portugal and Portuguese. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on motion of rejection No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme ( PSD and CDS-PP ). As you know, this is an electronic vote. Let's hope it's better today than last time. I had assurances that I was going to run well, so I'm confident. I therefore ask anyone who wishes to vote against the motion of rejection to stand up and press the red key, which is the « no». Then I will ask anyone who wishes to abstain to press the white key, which is the ‘abstention’ key, and then I will ask anyone who wishes to vote in favour of the motion of rejection to press the green key, which is the ‘yes’. [[Pause.]] I can see that Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has not been able to vote. [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u199	Mr President, it was indeed a failure. The vote on the CFP, which is « no », is thus very clear. [[General laughter.]] [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u200	We shall then proceed to the vote. This system of electronic voting in the general essays is always good, but the Bureau finds that there are five Members. Members of the PSD, moreover, four Mrs. PSD Members and one of the PCPs who cannot vote, to whom I ask you to register with the services. [[Having put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 122 votes against (86 PS, 19 BE, 15 PCP and 2 Os Verdes), 107 votes in favour (89 PS and 18 CDS-PP) and 1 abstention (PAN).]] [[Upstairs, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u201	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u202	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u203	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I am going to make a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary is now going to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u205	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of rail mobility in the Ramal da Lousã ( The Greens ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-03.u206	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 9 December, for the next 15 hours, with the following agenda: political statements; assessment of petition No 494 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria Flora Ferreira Sampaio Carvalho Correia and others, requesting to the Assembly of the Republic the exclusion of the proposed law No 299 / XII, which conforms the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists to the regime provided for in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, of all provisions relating to the convergence of the professions of dietitian and nutritionist; and the assessment of petition No 502 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — of the initiative of FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers, requiring the Assembly of the Republic not to apply the requalification/mobility scheme to teachers and the right to employment and to a public school of quality. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 4 minutes.]]
