ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the political statements, which are the first item on our agenda, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector approved by Article 228. o Law No 83 - C / 2013, from 31 December, which goes down to 5. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 763 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Functional reorganization of the emergency service network ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 764 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the wage correction scheme for public administration employees performing functions abroad ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1233 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Implementation of the recommendations of the National Education Council on the legal framework for special education ( BE ), 1234 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — School municipalisation imposed at the expense of the autonomy of schools ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1235 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — In defense of inclusive public school for all ( PCP ), 1236 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Immediate Plan of Economic and Social Intervention for the Alentejo ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1237 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the revision of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 11 September, ensuring the continuity of the school course in secondary education for students with special educational needs ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1238 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 11 September, in particular with regard to the composition of the classes, the distribution of the hourly load between school and institution and the impact of its premises on the effective integration of the student in post-school life ( PS ), 1239 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — It proposes the reversal of the alienation of the Espírito Santo Saúde Group, its transfer to the public sphere and the valuation of its assets in a control framework or property of a public nature ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1240 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends support for the candidature of Madeira's yeasts to the heritage of humanity ( The Greens ), 1241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen primary health care ( The Greens ), 1242 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of the primary care network and the hiring of professionals required for the normal functioning of the National Health Service ( BE ), 1243 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Stability and financing of the specialized artistic education network ( BE ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1244 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthening of the National Health Service ( PS ), 1245 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the maximum permitted power in the engines of local fishing vessels and strengthen the monitoring to them ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u3	Let us then enter the agenda, the first point of which, as we know, consists of political declarations, with the following order: Left Block, PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP. In order to make the first political statement, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, used and abused some statements that should not be made clear in the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, in relation to the area of health, he made statements in order to say that his government was the one who most contributed to the National Health Service. All this is discrepant and strongly contrasts with reality, not only with regard to what has been the chaos of emergencies—there is a need to recycle the immediate capacity of the citizens, with peak flu or no flu peak—but also with regard to many other shortcomings related to the organization of the hospital network, with the difficulties of suborbing and, much more than that, with the difficulty that there has been in providing biological, oncological medicines, no longer to mention the case of the day, which is serious from the point of view of innovative medicines, compared to Hepatitis C. But the most serious of all is the 10 months to respond to the request of an innovative drug that could save a life. Now, this time of 10 months to answer is a Kafkian problem of the relationship between the citizen and the state. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the Prime Minister's statements on public health, which has torn the clothes in the last half-year debate on the National Health Service, do not have the consent of the facts, do not have the truth of reality. But we can talk about poverty — the last remarks of the Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho. The figures published show an increase in poverty in Portugal around 20 %. Even so, the poverty threshold is lower and, therefore, the numbers, from the point of view of reality cruelty, are even more serious than what the investigation suggests. With regard to this, Mr. Prime Minister said something extraordinary, certainly with a pre-election objective: that it was an echo of the past. Now, everything indicates that in 2013 and 2014 all the circumstances have worsened. They have worsened from the point of view of the decline in social benefits, they have worsened from the point of view of the people concerned, they have worsened from the difficulty in employment, from the disembarkation of wages, for all that. Open... Another of the usual propaganda phrases that were propagated had to do with the National Institute of Statistics. Even today, the numbers of the National Institute of Statistics, I repeat, of the National Institute of Statistics, which Mr. Prime Minister is so precious, which accounts for an increase in unemployment and, therefore, there has been a flood, but below. All of this, however, points to a worsening of poverty, plus the famous savings ceiling of the Minister for Social Security in the benefits on poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in the area of education, Mr. Prime Minister has recently come to applaud those who would have been conquered by this government. However, looking at the main international indicators, what we see, in fact, is that the university in Portugal has collapsed, scientific research has caught up, there are fewer students and fewer researchers, and these are the indicators of competitiveness and creative capacity that are taken into account in the European Union. Also about the TAP — if we want to talk about the TAP — so many have joined, from Ramalho Eanes to the leftmost sectors in Portugal, to defend the flag company and its public property. It can be seen that the Prime Minister has failed the truth by saying that in the European Union it is not possible to capitalise on TAP. Apparently, the European Commission has not been contacted for this purpose. There is no open process, there is no evidence, except to be a bad story of Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Government, together with the Spanish Government, in another of our famous Prime Minister's statements, have been making a way of resisting the initiative of the new Greek Government to restructure sovereign debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u5	They've given up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u6	We are not going to talk about the 'count of children' and other ways of settling and abating the positions that have been taken by the Portuguese Government, the Prime Minister and the principal leaders. I must say that the words of the Portuguese Prime Minister, along with the attitude of the President of the Council of the Spanish State, are very negative. These are countries which have had different modalities of rescue, which are subject to the troika, that institution which is a sort of bastard institution of the European Union, which has been rejected in the dialogues — which are necessary — intra-European. What the main leaders have done and said is that they do not agree with any debate/ discussion on debt restructuring, they do not agree with a European conference on debt restructuring, they do not agree with any mechanism that has to do with the return to the past, they can take an autopsy from the rescue plans of the troika, find a path of growth and protection of social rights and, now, from the constitutional regimes of the Member States in the European Union. In other words, Mrs Merkel, on behalf of the people and representatives of the Member States - Portugal and Spain - is finding a human shield for negotiations in the European Union. And it is terrible, it is regrettable and it is unfortunate that there is a political majority in Portugal that turns our Member State of the European Union into a kind of human shield in relation to debt restructuring. If there is a debt restructuring, Portugal has much to use to relaunch economic growth. Realizing that things are changing in the European Union — not, of course, in the direction that everyone wants, but they are changing — this majority continues to deal with the case in a total immobilism without a proposal, without a position, only in an unbreakable defence of the political position of Chancellor Merkel's responsibility. German-speaking Portugal : this is what we are witnessing today. Portugal as a human shield in the negotiation of debt restructuring. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is quite regrettable and the message I leave is this: this is a majority that will lose « gas». It loses contact with reality in most public policies and in what might be of interest to us, at the moment, in the European framework, is absent, it is serving third parties, it is not serving the national interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u7	The Bureau recorded three entries, to request clarification, from the Members. Mónica Ferro, PSD, Nuno Magalhães, CDS-PP, and Jorge Machado, PCP. Mr Luís Fazenda said that he wanted to answer one by one, so Mr Mónica Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen, once again, an exercise in which the Left Block tries to show the Portuguese and Portuguese who has the monopoly of good feelings. We have heard an extensive list of concerns, but, Mr President, we have not heard a single motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u9	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u10	We heard a series of criticisms, but the PSD never denied that the crisis was tough. The PSD never denied that the crisis had consequences on the Portuguese, but we also never cast off the responsibility we had to give them an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u12	It's a confidence that you guys are. Members do not know what it is because the Portuguese have never given you this confidence to rule Portugal through the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u13	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u14	The Portuguese know where the responses to the maintenance of the social state are. The Portuguese know who they can count on and know it is in this bench that these answers are.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u15	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u16	Mr. Deputy mentioned poverty. Poverty is a concern to us, in fact, that we could not stop worrying. It is a social-democrat design that guarantees everyone the minimum level of dignity, up to the maximum level of dignity, which is what distinguishes us from a certain left. Mr President, you mentioned the INE report, but you could have mentioned the whole report. The figures on the poverty rate are worrying, but they are figures that are attributed to 2013, i.e. to the peak of the crisis. We don't deny it. [[BE's protests.]] Mr President, the INE report also tells us that the government has strengthened the capacity of the social state. But that part of the report did not interest either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u17	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u18	In addition, the report also tells us that in 2013 social transfers related to the disease, disability, family, unemployment and social inclusion for poverty risk reduction increased 0, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u19	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u20	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have created the Social Emergency Plan — our four budgets have entered EUR 938 million for this area; we have increased the unemployment benefit of married couples who have children in charge and in which both have lost their jobs; we have created the Food Emergency Programme; we have created the social electricity tariffs; we have reduced the price of medicines; we have exempted from moderate rates 5, 5 million people; we have increased the exemption within IRS. Mr President, I have a huge list of measures I can offer you to see the consolidated effort that this Government has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u21	We need to know these measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u22	We need to know them, because we have not actually heard answers from you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u23	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u24	I'm finishing up, Madam President. We have heard several references to Syriza and what this Greek victory would mean for Europe as a whole. Because I'm just wondering what Syriza is that we're talking about Syriza before the elections or post-election Syriza. Portugal is not in the same situation as Greece, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. As long as the Greeks don't know what tomorrow is going to be like, the Portuguese are looking at their restless wages, they're looking at their paid pensions, they're seeing the number of jobs growing, they're seeing the number of failures falling.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u25	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u26	What I would like to hear from the Left Block bench was the answer to these questions I asked, so that I, the Portuguese and the Portuguese who are seeing us at home could believe that there is another vision of governance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u27	I apologize for insisting very much with Mrs Mónica Ferro to finish, but, as is the first question in the afternoon, it is to create a bottle for the rest of the session. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the time they have to ask questions is 2 minutes. As Mr Luís Fazenda, on top of it, will answer one by one, which prolongs the debate further, he asked that they not exceed the time. Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u28	Madam President, on top of it, I will respond. [[BE's laughs.]] Mrs Mónica Ferro, who is known to be unemployed until last quarter of last year, has increased. There has been no linear cycle of increasing the employment rate in Portugal. That is why what the honourable Member has said is absolutely denied by numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u29	It's not true what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u30	The gentlemen. Members are out of date on numbers, so please update. With regard to poverty indicators, and taking into account those relating to 2014 — and we can calculate them — will increase. Why? Because social benefits have decreased, the factor of work has been further devalued and, as such, we will not have any improvements. Moreover, the poverty threshold from which the poverty index by the INE is calculated has fallen. Mrs Deputy, it could not have happened anything else, since the Prime Minister faithfully adopted the troika program as his own program, saying that Portugal needed to impoverish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u31	The Prime Minister saved the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u32	I don't know what's new, I don't know why the PSD gets so nervous, so restless when these facts are named. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister did not just say 'to fuck the elections', he also said that we needed to impoverish ourselves. You have the results, you see the application of your programme. Therefore, there is a greater social crisis, there is a greater economic downsizing, increased inequalities in the country. These are absolutely incontroverted facts. The honourable Member asked me about our alternatives. Well, we have defended debt restructuring, increased domestic demand, increased public investment, capacity for economic growth...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u33	Even Syriza has abandoned these measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u34	Finally, we have proposed a set of measures. Did you hear about this kind of measure? Heard! I did not talk about Syriza, I spoke about the Greek Government, but Syriza actually proposed such measures, which we have been defending for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u35	Syriza no longer proposes these measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u36	I do not know whether Mrs Mónica Ferro is listening to my reply or whether it is Mr Hugo Soares, but in any case I distribute it democratically throughout the PSD bench. What is in progress, regardless of its final outcome, is a process of renegotiating the Greek debt. What matters to me, in addition to the Greek people, which I very much esteem, like any other people in the European Union, is what will result from the view of the European framework, from the conditions of the euro, from the inequality that the euro has been promoting and from the fact that under these circumstances the debts of other Member States will be treated, both sovereign and those for which it is not spoken, and the general external debt, including private debt. Well, that's what matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u37	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u38	on this occasion — and I also conclude, Madam President — we need to know what the Portuguese Government is doing. The attitude of the Portuguese Government — and in this regard Mrs Mónica Ferro did not question — is to block this European process. That is absolutely unacceptable, that is missing the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u39	The next question is CDS-PP. You have the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u40	Mr President, Mr Luís Fazenda, in his political statement, touched on two points which are, in our view, the main social fracture in Portugal and therefore must be the main priorities of this or any government: the issue of poverty and the issue of unemployment. Having said this clearly, I would also like to tell you that we must therefore resist the temptation of political exploitation and have a serious political perspective on these matters. Of course, when the unemployment rate rises, everyone is concerned, but when it goes down it must satisfy everyone. Mr. Luís Fazenda, it is clear that we are concerned about the numbers of poverty. They are concerned about the Left Block, as the CDS and the other parliamentary groups are concerned. I have no doubt. Mr Deputy, in his political statement, and taking into account that the report he referred to is current, spoke of numbers that are not present, are figures relating to 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u42	More than that: the honourable Member said that everything indicated that it would be worse. What's all this, Mr. Deputies? It is that in 2014 we saw economic growth and saw the unemployment rate falling. The unemployment rate to be reduced, honourable Member! I am sorry to inform the Left Block, but the unemployment rate has decreased.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u43	In Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u44	In the last 12 months, Portugal has been the country of Europe which has experienced a higher drop in unemployment — 2, 4 percentage points.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u46	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u47	The unemployment rate in Ireland, which is often pointed out as an example, has only fallen 1, 7. Are you satisfied with that? It's just that I doubt it stays! The honourable Member is shocked at the fact that Portugal, unfortunately, of the difficult programme we had, has already been 17, 7 % and today is 13, 5 %. Is it tall? Yes, of course. Do we have to work down? Of course. Is this worth pointing out or is it not worth it? Mr TAP said that European aid is a miraculous solution. Once again, Mr Deputy, for an issue of intellectual and political honesty, which I know he has, should tell how these European aid are. It is that Alitalia in Italy has had European aid. Do you know what's happening now? A collective dismissal of 2000 employees. Is this what the Left Block recommends for TAP? Not us, sir! It is clear that the European Union is injecting liquidity into the TAP, but it is also asking for haircut programmes which Mr has so much to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u48	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u49	Madam President, I just wanted to ask a very clear question. Mr Luís Fazenda spoke of Greece, of the Greeks, of what has changed and the Greek elections are just that, i.e. are elections that took place in Greece. Well, for now, I have to tell you that you have changed Syriza more than Greece, but in any case we will be waiting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u50	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u51	Mr President, I would like to ask you the following: what do you, on behalf of the national interest, have to say about the statements made by the Greek Minister of Finance, when he said that the interest rates and the costs of the public debt in Portugal should increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u53	This would mean more austerity and more sacrifices for the Portuguese. Which side is the Block on? Is it on the side of the national interest of Greece or the national interest of Portugal? We have no doubt about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u54	To reply, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u55	Madam President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I would like to make a few comments. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u56	I should have been answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u57	... to your intervention, not without answering your question, until, if I may, it is correct. The current Greek Minister of Finance was, many years ago, a blogger, an intellectual and writes many things that are certainly seen with great attention. In any case, as an academic, he had a personality different from what he currently has as Minister of Finance. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a fair thing, isn't it? Oh, my God! Carlos Moedas is an excellent example of this and, however, has been promoted by the current political majority. It's been promoted! He defended the restructuring of the debt, but in the meantime « changed the needle ». Anyway, what was said by the current Greek Minister of Finance at the time was that if — conditional! — there was a situation surrounding Greece, the extent of being able to prevent the liquidity of Greece in European financial circuits and if this would increase the interest rates of a number of Member States, including Portugal, would increase the capital of conflict and could therefore cause a change in European policy. Finally, this scenario is not yet out of context. I dare you to think not of what you lose immediately, but of what Portugal can win in the long run. You don't talk about it! It is that Portuguese debt is as unpaid as Greek, it is a question of scale. In this respect, the electorate shall be a judge in the first instance and in the last instance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u58	You're giving a bad-tempered answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u59	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I would also like to tell you that, with regard to the unemployment rate, what we have is a difference of 1, 8 in favour of the employment rate for the same period last year. But a drop! This means that the economy, from this point of view, is stagnant and that, in addition to the conjugated effect of emigration, has no net job creation or is marginal. There is no job creation and that is the most severe punishment that can have this political majority of the CDS and PSD. As for the numbers of poverty, I don't know. Do you know such a Pedro Mota Soares, Minister for Social Security?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u60	I know him very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u61	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u62	It is he who has been cutting social benefits—in fact, he has even built another roof. What do you wonder about? They're going to increase poverty indicators! They're facts, aren't they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u63	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u64	They're hard to answer! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u65	Before giving the floor to Mr. Jorge Machado, the PS Parliamentary Group informed the Bureau that there had been a lapse in the direction of the bench and, as such, was not registered to ask a question, Mr. Vitalino Canas. There is no objection, Mr Vitalino Canas. You have the floor, Mr. Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u66	Madam President, Mr Luís Fazenda, we would like to begin by welcoming you from the political statement you made on behalf of BE and saying that the CFP considers that the Government has set up a genuine line of propaganda. Consider the government that succeeds in success: success in health—when what is chaos in emergencies! — good results in employment, good results in the economy... This is a propaganda made as a castle of letters, that is, without any kind of support, and reality easily destroys this line of propaganda that is mounted. We want to highlight two specific cases which are paradigmatic of how the government's political options are sinking our country and are not solving any of the structural problems. The first case has to do with unemployment data. Well they can set up the scheme they want, but the fact is that INE data clearly shows that, contrary to what the government is saying and the majority tries to repeat until exhaustion, unemployment in our country is not decreasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u68	It is sufficient to note that the government has launched 166,000 non-statistical workers for internships and vocational training and, if we add the inactive and demotivated, 257,000, we realize that today unemployment reaches 1, 2 million Portuguese. Today we have substantially more unemployed workers than we had in 2011. So today, the situation is worse, not better, as they try to paint. The second case has to do with INE data on poverty. There are 2, 7 million poor people in our country, 25, 9 % poverty. It has been the worst rate of poverty since 25 April. Most react by saying that it is a peak and that it has nothing to do with the current reality, without proving whether there is any kind of change that improves reality. What changed, changed to worse. More: Mónica Ferro, from the PSD, says there were many sacrific, but she forgot to mention - and I ask her for a comment - that, at the same time as poverty has worsened as never in our country, in 2013 there were guaranteed profits and tax benefits millionaires for the large economic groups. Therefore, there is indeed no sacrifice for all; there are for some, for the workers. Mr President, I should therefore like to say that we share your view on this matter and, Madam President, before we finish, we wanted to point out solutions. The debt and the budgetary treaty are today a barrier to our development and to the possibility of our country to break off this path that is being traced. Our proposal, which was advanced yesterday in Parliamentary Days, is the holding of an intergovernmental conference to discuss with other countries both the budgetary treaty and the debt issues, to break this path and this garrote that our country has. What is the Left Block's view on this matter? We believe that this is a fundamental aspect of changing national policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u69	To reply, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u70	Mr President, Mr Jorge Machado, I can only agree with your analysis of poverty and unemployment. As far as unemployment is concerned, I did not go any further than that. Mr. Prime Minister and most of them are very jealous of INE data. However, INE data prove that the net job creation either does not exist or is marginal and we will draw some conclusion about it. from the real point of view, there is an increase in unemployment, and this is known and known. In fact, in the last half-year debate it was also observed that Mr Prime Minister had been trying to decode a methodological deception that had existed in the INE series and that what was a low was not; it was, in fact, an increase in employment. After all, he was here covering himself with the clothes of the National Institute of Statistics. Apparently, there are again data from the National Institute of Statistics making it clear that there is an increase in unemployment in the last quarter of last year, 2014. Unfortunately, this series seems to have a tendency to continue. We'll see about it in time! In any case, unemployment is enormous and it is the mark of a failed policy, of a failed government. Who said that? I think it was the PSD that had this statement, which we should always draw our attention to. It is a disqualification from the point of view of employment policy, which is now correlated with the immigration policy, because there is no other way to address this data. And poverty goes by itself, because by reducing employment conditions, by devalued wages, by lowering the median average income in Portugal, the increase in poverty is inevitable, more in the Budget in which the Minister for Social Security and the Prime Minister came to ensure that there was a lowering of benefits by around 100 million euros. Therefore, this reality is not inescapable and, therefore, necessarily, we will have a worsening of poverty in the next circumstances. Mr President, I can no longer agree with you about an international conference on the restructuring of intergovernmental debt. In fact, I must recall that in the last half-year debate, my comrade Catarina Martins asked Mr. Prime Minister about this conference, which is a proposal from the Greek Government, which we are accompanying, and that Mr. Prime Minister said, black and white, that he would fail, that he would be absolutely opposed to such a proposal. Because this is the people's proposal, it is the proposal that leads, it is the proposal of those who hope to have some transformation in Europe and in each state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u71	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u72	This will also be one of our flags that we must share on this road beyond. It was necessary for many others to share and, as I said in the intervention, for Portugal not to be Mrs Merkel's human shield. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u73	The next question is PS. Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u74	Mr President, Mr Luís Fazenda, in his speech he has put some subjects of great importance, starting from the very beginning with the theme of increasing the risk of poverty, perhaps the most important, because it is the one that calls us with greater insistence on our responsibility. This issue will, in fact, be dealt with here later by the Socialist Party. He also raised questions related to the National Health Service. There is a pattern of behavior of this government for a long time that has not begun by CITIUS, which did not start with the placement of teachers—which had already begun before—but that remains, which is the pattern of behavior of neglect of the blind cuts that then have these consequences. Therefore, Mr President, you did well to mention these issues as well. On the issue of European policy and developments at European level, he referred to the initiatives of the Greek Government. I must say, Mr President, that we are standing at a time when, without the euphoria of last week, we can debate these issues with some seriousness and some restraint. However, I was surprised by the fact that the Greek Government has not commented on any developments in debt restructuring, which seems to us to be a sensible development, particularly with regard to issues relating to the need to impose a haircut or the commitment, once again, taken by the Greek Prime Minister that they would pay the full amount of debt. I think it is important to note this development. It is important, above all, not to highlight any kind of retreat or any kind of evolution, but to note that the Greek Government is having a contribution that I find useful in discussing these issues in Europe. We must make this contribution here, and we must also take advantage of it. I would like to say here that I find the Portuguese Government's position of not being paying attention and with due interest to this debate in Europe is completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u75	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u76	It is undeniable that Europe has not changed, but it is also undeniable that the Greek Government is introducing important discussion factors into Europe. I would like to note this, but I would like to hear a comment by the honourable Member on developments at the level of the Greek Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u77	To reply, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u78	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, I am grateful for your comments. at this time, both from a European and Greek point of view and from the point of view of other Eurogroup officials and the various governments of the Member States, the news we have, by the international press and by one or more other statement which has been most commented on, is that there are bilateral negotiations and there is an ongoing process. We are not going to comment on a process that is under way. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] On 11, there is a meeting of the Eurogroup and on 12 there is a European summit, and we still hope to have an opportunity to debate in the Assembly of the Republic. But on 12th day there will be a European summit and there will be room for multilateral decisions. It will therefore be the right time to take stock of this process, what its consequences and what changes are needed within the framework of the European Union and whether they will or will not take place. at this time, we are limited to registering, and this is important, that there is persistence on the part of the Greek Government in restructuring its debt, regardless of what may be the tools being used, which will be those which the Greek Government defends and not exactly what we all try to find as useful. at this moment, what we see is openness, and we must record it from various governments in the European Union — either from France or from Italy, or from Ireland, or even from other countries in a less generous way, in any event opened doors or windows. And that aspect is important. Even Mr Merkel's statement today shows that there is a change in the situation in the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u80	... and therefore wants to face the debate and the problem of Greece. They are statements by Mrs Merkel today saying that there will be no extraordinary crisis for the consolidation of public finances. I do not know exactly what that means, it is the problem of getting prognosis before the end of the game, as the other would say, but here there is some need to update what Mr has said: is that the attitude that the Portuguese Government has taken continues to take as it is subservient — in fact, subservient it is little — in relation to what has been the dominant troicism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u81	We don't have a troika anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u82	So he capitulated completely. And if it is important for Portugal to know how it deals with sovereign debts and with all external debts, Portugal is absent, Portugal is making the place of death.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u83	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u84	Therefore, this role is that of human shield in relation to Mrs Merkel's policy. That is all we would not want in Portugal today ; we would want an active attitude on the part of our government. Let us hope that we will still have the debate on the next European summit here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u85	After concluding the political declaration of the Left Block, I inform you that the next political declaration is the PSD. Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u86	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: If there is a sector that has contributed strongly to the economic recovery of the country, this sector is that of tourism. This is due to the extraordinary work of the Portuguese, especially the entrepreneurs and agents involved in their action and dynamization. The government's strategy is clear: do more with less! In the past, tens of millions of euros were being cut off to promote questionable programmes and concepts such as Allgarve; however, the results were frankly unsatisfactory. Today, there is a vision centered on the purposes, today, there is a positioning centered on the results. in a global world, thousands of miles away a citizen can buy any journey towards Portugal, but it is necessary that the service intended by the potential buyer find a close and fast response. There has been a remarkable effort by the Government to qualify for supply and infrastructure, to encourage entrepreneurs and to reduce administrative costs and red tape. There has been a genuine desire to bring together efforts and to put all interested people to work together in the sector's appreciation: associations, regulators, operators, agencies, airlines and especially municipalities. All are indisputably fundamental to perfect business models, to bring more tourists, to generate more revenue. Our way of dealing with tourism is very different from the way it was until 2011. We are irreverent in the search for new markets, new ideas and new strategic partners. The promotion was depolitized. The promotion has a completely technical component: promoting tourism in a distribution and value chain. It is a question of ‘know-how’ and ‘do-how’. Thousands of euros are no longer spent on advertising pages or on isolated events that, instead of promoting the country, instead of promoting Portugal, promoted the government member who protected this area. We all remember, too, the famous image of the Minister of Economics, Manuel Pinho, stuck in the pool with an Olympic athlete to pose for the cameras or to take out a smiling selfie. It is not this type of episode that promotes tourism in Portugal; on the contrary, we now opt for a more sustainable and effective approach: we show on-the-spot the country to international media professionals in the area of tourism; we act in organized actions of public relations to train opinion leaders, blogs, social networks, specialized media. These are the channels that capture attention and bring tourists. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the customer, the visitor and the tourist are always right we see in a very different way the policy of « rates and taxis », so appreciated on the outskirts of the Lisbon Council. For Archimedes, a point of support was enough to move the world, for others the tourist rates are the solution for deficit budgets. But the fees, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are real challenges that make the life of operators worse. For this reason, this government eliminated visa fees for hotel establishments; it ended with local accommodation registration rates and the use of beach concessions during the winter; it reduced tourist entertainment rates and registration rates for travel agencies. Tourist activity is now much simpler, but this is not enough! A potential tourist only comes to Portugal if the service that will be trusted, if the final destination is a beautiful, safe country, with good food, efficient transport and with a welcoming people. This is the image and substance of Portugal, a country with excellent tourism services — magnificent hotel offer, resilient operators, dynamic travel agencies and active airlines. It is not by chance that two low-cost companies installed their only base in Portugal on the Iberian Peninsula. It is not by chance that our airports beat every trimester of passenger records. The daily tourist revenue is almost EUR 30 million. Equivale, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than EUR 1 million per hour! Tourist activity is growing between 3% and 4% per year, worldwide. In Portugal there are growth rates in the order of two digits. In the past, the Algarve monopolized the movement of tourism activity. Today, four regions of the national territory have market shares above 10 %. There is the Algarve, not the Allgarve... There is also Madeira, Lisbon, Porto and North, but there is, above all, Portugal! Here, we must highlight the magnificent work of regional tourism agencies. Every day these men and women strive to raise the marks of their region very high. Nothing would be possible without the close collaboration and articulation between these entities and Tourism of Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the good news doesn't always fill the pages of the newspapers. The success of entrepreneurs is not always valued. The competence of Portuguese is not always recognized. in an economy as open to the outside, like portuguese, we have reason to maintain optimism. Portugal is not only a wonderful tourist destination, it also has an innovative, dynamic and competitive private sector. Thanks to tourism, our exports grow. On the other hand, tourism generates thousands of new jobs. Tourism is a future activity. It's a sign of hope for the Portuguese. Tourism contributed 14 % to GDP in 2014. It is the largest exporter of national services(46%)! And 2014 was the best year ever. The Government's strategy for tourism is based on the differentiation and authenticity of service and product. Tourism's contribution to the national economy can and should be strengthened. The year 2015 will certainly be even better. That is the commitment of this majority and of this government, because, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, above all is Portugal! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u87	How do you visit this country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u88	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records the registration of the Members. Mr. Acácio Pinto, PS, João Ramos, PCP, and Hélder Amaral, CDS-PP, to ask questions and is informed that Mr. Luís Vales will answer jointly. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Acácio Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u89	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, I welcome you on the subject you have brought here today, but I would like to say that you could have started your speech with the phrase 'Despite the government...'. Despite the government, we also see the positive results of tourism. And I say « despite the government », because the government has been a non-existent in this matter. At least we can say that it did not interfere with the companies, it did not interfere with the regions and, Mr President, it did not hinder the authorities from doing an excellent job in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u90	That's what you used to do in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u91	But, Mr President, there are issues I want to deal with, which have to do with internal tourism, which Mr Squad. In internal tourism, Mr Deputy, as you know, if you have followed this area, there is no government strategy, there is no strategy to promote internal tourism — indeed, the only strategy the Government has followed is that of impoverishment of Portuguese. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question from now on: what is the word that you have to say about the latest INE data, according to which there are 5 %, 7 % reduction in domestic travel? Tell us something about this value of the 2014 INE. By the way, I also want to know what you have to tell us about the territorial distribution of tourism impacts in our country. It is indeed, Mr President, that there are regions in our country where tourism is going through great difficulties. Even today, the president of the Centre entity says that in the Centre region there are companies in difficulty and there are even some hotels to close. Tell us a word about this, too. Finally, Mr President, a word on ENATUR ( National Tourism Company ). Can you explain to us what happened to the Government's retreat in the privatisation of 51 % of ENATUR? What happened to that? Tell us why, indeed, the PS asked the Minister of Economics a question on this matter and until today it has not been worthy of replying to the Socialist Party. We don't know if it was the question you took back, but anyway, I would like to know why. Even in conclusion, what you have to say about this government since 2011 has not submitted to the Portuguese the Satellite Tourism Account, which is a required account, let me tell you this...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u93	I'm finishing up, Madam President. As I was saying, what do you have to say about the fact that this Government has not submitted to the Portuguese Satellite Tourism Account since 2011, which is an account required by the World Tourism Organisation? This is a very important account so that entrepreneurs and Portuguese people can make concrete choices in the area of tourism. Let us have a word about the Satellite Tourism Account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u94	The next question is PCP. Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u95	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, the honourable Member brings us here some kind of novelty by taking up the CDS space on tourism issues. Usually, in the parliamentary debate, it is the CDS that pulls by its Minister and by its Secretary of State, now we have the PSD also to enter this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u96	The government is just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u97	But that's irrelevant. What I would like to tell you is that you are talking about the success of tourism, and the CDS is also talking about this success, based on INE data. And tourism statistics for 2013 speaks of an increase in revenue, an increase in sleep, an increase in income. The profits in the tourism sector increased by EUR 1900 million in 2013, i.e. 7, 7 %. But statistics also say other things, which normally you do not refer to, for example, that the number of establishments in 2013 decreased and the number of beds had a slight increase, i.e., there is a concentration process in the sector. And they also tell us that the number of non-residents sleeping increased, but the number of residents sleeping had a decrease, so the Portuguese are making less tourism in Portugal. So there are other data here that you don't talk about. On the other hand, they speak in success, as if it were a success for all, forgetting, for example, an important sector, which is the sector of restoration, and the VAT of restoration, which is not, in any way, embedded in this success. Furthermore, the Government continues to fail to publish the VAT statistics in order to demonstrate what it says, i.e. that the increase in VAT in the catering sector has effectively contributed to an increase in VAT revenue. The government says, but it cannot demonstrate, because it does not publish VAT statistics. But then there is another way to analyze the numbers and we don't need to go look for the statistics. We can also go to the numbers and statistics of the Ministry of Economics and Government. I give you the example of the Ministry of Economy's Strategy Office and Studies, in this sector you claim to be a success, which is the best export sector. In fact, statistics say it is the largest export sector, but, for example, the average monthly gain of workers in the housing sector, restoration and similar fell, in the last three years, 7, 5 %. The average gain of workers in this sector has fallen 7, 5 % in the last three years. For example, the tourism sector is what the lowest wages of the entire Portuguese economy, with the exception of textile and clothing sectors. This is also said by the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u99	Look at the success! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u100	Or, for example, in the tourism sector, 21 % of workers receive the national minimum wage, while the national average is only 2 %. This is also said by the Ministry of Economics. It is easy to see that part of this success that you are talking about is at the expense of over-exploration of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u102	That is why, Mr President, it was important for you to tell us, and from that point on, what the PSD thinks, for example, of the curricular stages in tourism, that are replacing jobs, or what the PSD thinks about the problems that workers have, and that the Ministry of Economics recognises, in a sector that had EUR 1900 million of profits, the largest export sector. Why does this success not reflect the wages and the quality of the jobs of these workers? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u103	To request clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u104	Madam President, Mr Luís Vales, I would like to congratulate you on the initiative of your political statement. I don't know if I understood well, but I was hoping that something new, never seen, will happen: the Portuguese Communist Party is preparing to make a political declaration on tourism more day, less day, not wanting this matter to be discussed only by the parties of the majority. It is welcome, Mr. João Ramos, whenever you wish. We can even give help, because there are still some statistical data. [[PCP protests.]] He was fine, because he withdrew the idea, which seems to be a certainty, that the opposition, whatever the positive result, in any sector of the Portuguese economy or life, runs from him like the devil of the cross,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u105	Salaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u106	...looking like he just wants to look at the black side of history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u107	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u108	If there is a sector in which, in fact, congratulations must be given to entrepreneurs and workers, to Portuguese workers working in it, it is tourism. But I would also like to point out — and I will do so with all due care for the friendship that joins me both the former Secretary of State and the present one — that if there is a matter in which we can do an exercise of 'discover the differences' between the governance of the majority and that of the Socialist Party, it is exactly that of tourism. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] While the government, in the opinion of Mr Acácio Pinto, has revised the law of travel agencies, simplifying and withdrawing bureaucracy, has revised the law of regional tourism entities, simplifying, giving autonomy and more powers, and has removed a set of licences, what has the Socialist Party done? Oh, my God! Look, your candidate for Prime Minister, in juxtaposition, creates fees, creates bureaucracy, creates difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u109	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u110	Between a state that absorbs all the efforts of the Portuguese and a government that wants to simplify the lives of employers and workers, here is the difference that separates us. The Socialist Party is equal to itself: it barely discovers a growing sector, a sector to have results, what does it do? It appropriates these results and seeks to get income there for your policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u111	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u112	That is why, in the Amadeus, they chose him "Public Manager of the Year!"! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u113	What does the majority do? It protects these results, simplifies, removes obstacles and is a reliable partner of the sector. That is why I think you are right when you say nothing is done, but we have this data: 14% of GDP; Portugal is in the top 3 countries where tourism grows; in November 2014 we had 2, 4 million tourists, record beatings. I would say that the problems which the Portuguese Communist Party Member here brought here with some reason, and that you also brought here, are solved with three things: more tourists, more tourists, more tourists. And that's what's happening: we're having more tourists, more tourists, more tourists.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u114	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u115	I will finish, Madam President. They're right when they say we have to look at internal tourism. It's a fact! These data must be a good starting point. Now, we have to look at the territory, we have to look at the creation of products, we have to consolidate destinations, we have to re-qualify the supply. This is a step we must take, but even in this matter - and I know that Mr Luís Vales will answer me - we are doing a lot, something that has never been done. This in addition to strengthening the funding of regional tourism agencies and entities, which represents a record for the governments of the Socialist Party, which cut funds and withdrew autonomy to the territory, the authorities and regional tourism entities. Until this point, Mr Luís Vales, say whether or not it is true that we have done much more than has been done by any Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u116	To reply, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Acácio Pinto, João Ramos and Hélder Amaral. I am concerned about some of the issues that have been raised, particularly from the PS and CFP banks. It's just that, once again, Mr. Members, even in this sector, who, I think, said everything in the rostrum, meant 14 % of GDP, had extraordinary numbers, and was not at the expense of political parties,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ...but of Portuguese, operators, municipalities, regional entities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u118	workers' wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u119	... and also the Government and Tourism of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u120	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u121	Despite all this, and with this success, they remain angry, disturbed with positive numbers, even in this area of tourism! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this matter does not pick up from an electoral point of view, because Portuguese people also like to have a smile on their faces from time to time. And tourism is a reason to smile in this country. On the question of the VAT of restoration and its difficulties, which we have talked about, I answer you that, of course, there have been, and there are, companies in difficulty, but here I want to remind you of the recent decrease in IRC and the changes made to the IRS. Therefore, in time, after the bankruptcy brought to us by the Socialist Party, it is natural that there is here a period of adjustment. I hope that the VAT of restoration will see its load reduced when possible. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also been a little amazed at some of the statements made on internal tourism. I would like to say the following: in 2014 all regions of the country saw their tourism increase exponentially. No one says that there are no difficulties in the sector, of course, there are difficulties in all sectors; there are companies that are symgrams and others that are less well, depending, of course, on their business plan. But there's one thing that's unequivocal, sirs. Members: Tourism has risen in all regions of the country. In this regard, I would like to reply to Mr Hélder Amaral, who referred to regional tourism agencies, telling him that I believe that this is also what distinguishes us. In the past, in the socialist governments, everything was done from Lisbon to Lisbon, from Lisbon to Porto, from Lisbon to Alentejo, from Lisbon to Algarve — today, it is different; today, regional tourism entities have their importance and, in a cooperative and even smarter way, they know what the region can offer as a tourist destination. This is why I would also like to leave a welcome to regional tourism agencies here and to this way that has in fact changed the way in which we can make tourism policy in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u122	To give a political statement, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « We are only going to get out of this situation, impoverishing it in relative terms and absolute terms» — Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho said on 25 October 2011. At the time, it was unclear whether this statement by the Prime Minister was a promise or a threat. Whatever it is, for once the Prime Minister has fulfilled what he has promised! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is poorer. People and families in general are poorer and those who were already poorer are even poorer today. By translating poverty figures into Portuguese and Portuguese: between 2012 and 2013, in just one year, more 110,000 Portuguese and Portuguese fell at the risk of poverty; between 2011 and 2013, in just two years, more 450 000 people fell into poverty. To better understand the dramatic reality of these numbers and the life of these people, we must remember that these Portuguese and Portuguese fell into the risk of poverty by living with less than €433 per month, 12 months in a year, the value that, in 2009, defined the threshold of poverty. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These numbers, which translate life, the day-to-day of 2, 7 million Portuguese and Portuguese - I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 2, 7 million Portuguese and Portuguese — are not the result of chance or the unexpected effect of any policy that has gone less well. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority! The increase in poverty and the poor in Portugal results from a clear political option of this government, the option to go beyond the troika, and has a name and a face — Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was Mr Prime Minister who soon assumed the will to « surprise and go beyond the agreement with the troika ». The increase of Portuguese and Portuguese in poverty and the worsening intensity of poverty of those who were already poor are the direct consequence of this government's choice, led by Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, to surprise and go beyond the troika. You may not have surprised, but it is true that it was far more than the troika! In 2012, where the Memorandum provided for an effort of 4, 8 billion, the Government — this government — cut EUR 9, 6 billion, i.e. more EUR 4, 8 billion than was expected: twice as much as planned! In 2013, where the Memorandum provided for EUR 2, EUR 8 million, the Government — this government — cut EUR 5, EUR 8 billion, i.e. more EUR 3 billion than was expected! No one doubts that this government's option to cut, between 2012 and 2013, more than EUR 8 billion than was expected in the Memorandum is not, cannot be, shut off from the growth of poverty: almost half a million Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's see what happened to inequality in income distribution in 2013. Once again, the numbers are dramatic: 10 % of the poorest Portuguese people today have 11, 1 % less income than 10 % of the most profitable Portuguese people. If this number itself impresses, it becomes even more dramatic when compared to 2011, where the income of the richest 10 % was 10 times higher than the income of the poorest 10 %. Here too, and once again, the increase in inequalities in Portugal is not the result of chance or an unexpected effect of any policy that went less well. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority! The increase in inequalities in Portugal results from a clear political option of this government: the option of expansionist austerity and wage devaluation; the option of reducing wages and pensions at all costs! And this policy had a face and direction: that of Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho! Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members : We also look at poverty data by analyzing their evolution by groups. Again, the reality is severe: poverty has increased in all groups! Again, and as in 2012, the increased risk of poverty was higher for children. In 2013 470,000 children were in poverty! More than a decade ago, the risk of poverty for children was not so high! If we look at the situation of families, we see that the incidence of poverty has, essentially, increased in families with children! The risk is clearly compounded when we analyze the data of single-parent families, being associated with this given the fact that poverty affects more women than men! But it also increased the risk of poverty for the unemployed, as it increased the risk of poverty for the working people, but whose income is not enough to get them out of the poverty situation. Finally, I'm talking about the elderly! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, poverty has also increased in the elderly! And if we use the data of poverty anchored in 2013, we find that there are more than 70 000 poor elderly people; and between 2011 and 2013 there are more than 130 000 poor elderly people. Once again, the rise in poverty in children, families with children, the unemployed, people who have employment and the elderly is not the result of chance or an unwanted effect on any policy that has gone less well! No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority! Increasing poverty in all these people is the result of a clear political option of this government: making cuts in social policies a substantial part of the expansionist austerity strategy with which they wanted to surprise the troika! Here too this strategy has responsible: Steps Coelho and Paulo Portas! The destruction of social balances was the brand of this PSD / CDS coalition governance. A slow but progressive course of poverty reduction and inequality reduction was dramatically reversed in a few years. No, there was definitely no ethics in austerity! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u124	And that is why the country demands a new policy and a new path, where rigour is not confused with harsh and blind austerity; where mass migration is not a solution but a problem; where Portugal does not have as its sole ambition to be a good student in the European test of austerity and knows how to defend the interests of the Portuguese and Portugal; a path that refuses stagnation and social retreat; a path that one Portuguese and does not make confrontation the alibi for difficulties — the path that is already late, but which has to be our reach! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u125	The Bureau registered four Members to request clarification from Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy? Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u126	I will answer one by one, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u127	All right, Mrs. Deputy. I shall now give the floor to the first recorded speaker, Mr Adam Silva, to make his request for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u128	Madam President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, to govern is essentially to rule for those who are most deprived. And to govern is, above all, to govern to owe, but even to overcome, completely, the differences or inequalities in the distribution of income. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Madam Member, to govern is to take action. V.E.A., in its intervention of about 8 minutes, scalpelized an instant problem, which, we do not deny, is a delicate problem. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would also be interesting if you could point to some of the solutions! Do you mind pointing out some of the solutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u130	It is that 8 minutes of escalating a problem, detailing the statistics — difficult, indeed, of the following — perhaps it would be compensated if you had the generosity, the kindness of presenting some solutions to us, because we are less than half a year from beginning to present government solutions and you cannot just stay in the detailed, detailed analysis of the numbers, you must also move forward to proposals for solving the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u131	It's true! [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u132	Therefore, you did not present them, which is obviously regrettable. Mrs Deputy, you mentioned several times « the political options of this government »... Mr Deputy, the political options of this government were very limited because the Assistance Programme, which you see. They negotiated, and with which they put Portugal in a distressing situation, it wasn't exactly a party program, it was an austerity programme, hard for the Portuguese! It wasn't, Mrs. Deputy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] And what Mr. Prime Minister has done is lead the country in a deplorable situation, in which VV. Ex.s left him, to reemerge and build, or rebuild, a country that has merit and deserves to be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u134	Mrs. Deputy, of course you are. Ex. they are trapped in a species of labyrinth or some sort of labyrinth prison syndrome. VV. They took the country to disgrace and the country is reemerging. The economic data are improving, the employment data are improving,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u135	You're looking! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u136	... unemployment data is improving, export data is improving! But, VV. They say no, that it is necessary to deny this, in a kind of syndrome of those who were arrested in your own labyrinth, which was the labyrinth of shooting Portugal near bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u138	That, of course, is very complicated, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u139	Would you like to conclude, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u140	If you will allow me, Madam President, I will say that you, Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos, have denied all the evidence that the country has already returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u142	But the question that I am asking you, Member of Parliament, is the following: beyond the escalation and detail of the numbers, tell us something about how to overcome this problem, which is a great problem of Portuguese public life, which existed in your time as a government, that VV. They added when they put Portugal in the rescue situation and which, of course, we all want to overcome as quickly as possible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u143	Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u144	Madam President, Mr Adam Silva, I answer each of your questions. The honourable Member says that the government has to govern for those who are most deprived. However, Mr President, INE's numbers on poverty are the clearest proof of the total and absolute failure of your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, that's why I wouldn't have said better. A government must take action! These data also prove other things, such as those measures that you say you have taken, such as the Social Emergency Plan, have failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u146	All the measures they took failed, because if they weren't the numbers, they weren't the ones. He asked what the Socialist Party's solutions were. Mr President, you do not want to know what our proposals are for the next Government Programme, when you had to know the proposals we made for the State Budget by 2015 and what the honourable Members are. Ladies and gentlemen, they have led! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party, precisely because the data of poverty in 2012 were already worrying enough, proposed to increase the family allowance, proposed to restore school passes, proposed to increase the social unemployment allowance, made it a challenge for the Government to give up the cut of EUR 100 million of two non-contributory labour income benefits. What are you guys doing? Did you guys do it? They have dropped our proposals and on the EUR 100 million they have said nothing. It may be that the Minister of Solidarity, who has not yet had the decency to pronounce himself on the data of poverty, can come here to talk about what he will do to the 100 billion cuts that are planned. He said that the options of this government were limited because of the Memorandum of Understanding. Mr. Deputies, your memory is weak, but I will revive it. It was Mr Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the PSD / CDS-PP coalition, who said the following, and I quote: « It means therefore that carrying out this Memorandum of Understanding does not result in a kind of heavy obligation that is fulfilled only to have the notion of duty fulfilled ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u148	And he said more: « It is curious that the electoral programme we presented last year and what is our Government Programme does not have a very large dissonance with what came to be the Memorandum of Understanding between Portugal, the European Union and the IMF». Therefore, Mr President, not only did the PSD say « come the IMF that we have no problem in ruling with the troika », as it said « we are fully identified with the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u149	Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u150	But the honourable Member said nothing about going far beyond the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u151	Zero solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u152	It is that you cut more than 8000 million than was expected and one of the results was the more than 500 000 poor Portuguese, Mr. The honourable Member has said nothing about this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u153	Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I believe that it has brought here a very important problem and that it has made a picture of the country. They have already told you, as this Parliament has said, by the voice of Mr Adam Silva, that the PSD electoral programme was not the « party programme ». In fact, it was not, he had the title « It is time to change» and the first candidate of this programme promised, if he were Prime Minister, that he would not cut the Christmas allowance, he would not cut the holiday allowance, much less cut wages or pensions. In fact, it was not a party program, but it was a very black program, because during these four years you have cut across the whole line in family income and, in particular, in the incomes of the poorest. And today they have a country where nearly two million people live with less than 411 €. And of these two million, more than half, i.e. 975 000 people, have a income of less than €286.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u155	Be serious, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u156	It wasn't the party program! It was the programme that cut all social support, saying until the unemployed were guilty of their own situation, saying until there was a certain laziness on the part of the same unemployed and, therefore, they had to do some work on the stock market — which is what unemployed people do today with employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +. They have today a country where children suffer the most from poverty. They speak of measures, but I believe that the measures that have been appearing over these four years have all been plunged, because, in fact, there has been money to save the bank, they have continued with the PPP glove, but the money for social benefits has been locked up. This was therefore a very low-counted 'party programme'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u157	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u158	Poverty is today the mark of this country. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, if you do not think that the main face of these policies should have the decency to come to Parliament today to face this dark, so black programme of which you were the main executioner. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u159	Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u160	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, in fact, is quite right. The strategy of this government failed, because it did several things at the same time that it could not have done: as I said, it cut the social support, the CSI and the CSI, made the beneficiaries of the family allowance lower, also cut the income of wages and pensions, and all this at the same time as unemployment increased. It is obvious that all these components together had to give a disastrous result as is the one that the data of the 2013 poverty reflect and that they already reflected in 2012, which should have led the government to make different budgets for 2014 and 2015, but as we know, for those years the government kept the decision and the political option to continue cutting into social support and, above all, social support aimed at combating poverty and supporting families. But, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, if we join these data and this scenario the data of emigration, in which about 400 000 Portuguese and Portuguese emigrated, many of them the youngest and most qualified, and if we join a theme that the Government and the majority say is very expensive, that is about birth — we know that regarding the number of births between 2011 and 2013 there was a decrease of 18 % but between 1990 and 2010 the number of births had decreased 13 % (see, Mr Deputy, the drama that is in these numbers) — in fact, the country has a serious problem to solve, and this problem is only reversed the austerity policy as it has been applied by the Government. The Socialist Party has never said, of course, that the Program and Memorandum of Understanding were easy. The Socialist Party never said such a thing. But the truth is that you believed and wanted to make the Portuguese believe that, far beyond the troika, they would save the country from economic recession and the lack of economic growth. This has not only occurred as Portugal, in its entirety, the economy and society, today has less conditions to develop than it had when the government began its duties because, if we were to see the DEO / 2011 the government's forecasts for GDP growth, employment growth, investment growth and if we were to check what the government expects to happen in 2015 we also find that the Portuguese are poorer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u161	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sónia Fertuzinhos, we believe that the PSD/CDS-PP government is responsible for a huge increase in poverty in our country - is 2, 7 million poor and if we anchor the data of poverty in the incomes of 2009, they represent 25, 9 % of the population. We really understand that today, Minister Mota Soares should be in this Parliament discussing what poverty data are. Fortunately or unfortunately — in our perspective, unfortunately — the PSD has scheduled an up-to-date debate on environmental licensing. For us, the current debate would be about the data of poverty and the worsening of poverty in our country. That was the current debate to be called into question! But the debate with the Minister, as proposed by the CFP, is then marked by 12 days. Madam Member, we have doubts about the data you are examining. Indeed, the PSD/CDS-PP government is responsible for an increase of more than 30 % of poverty; PSD and CDS-PP are throwing at poverty 629 000 people in the period when they are government, but if we join the 2010 PS government data, then it is more than 45%, it is 808 000 people who have been shot at poverty. The poverty line anchored in time was 17, 9 % in 2009, in 2010 shot to 19, 6 %, in 2011 reached 21, 3 %, in 2012 reached 24 % and in 2013 reached 25 %. There is a systematic increase in data from poverty. The question we wanted to ask is whether or not the honourable Member understands that the PECs and troikas that the PS has been maintained with the PSD and with the CDS-PP are, or not, responsible for the worsening of poverty in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u163	Not the PECs again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u164	Our understanding is that these PECs and the Memorandum of Understanding, the pact that the PS signed with the PSD and the CDS-PP and the troika were responsible for the background lines that have thrown thousands of Portuguese into poverty. The honourable Member says, and it is true, that poverty results from political options. Let us see: condition of resources — Decree-Law No. 70 / 2010, which the PS created and which is now being used by the PSD and the CDS-PP to cut into social benefits as we have never seen in our country; cuts in family allowance initiated by the PS ; cuts in unemployment allowance initiated by the PS and now used by the PSD and the CDS-PP to continue cutting to those who are unemployed; the deprotection of work and the attack on the rights of those who work through revisions to the Labour Code promoted by PS, PSD and CDS-PP ; the cut in wages and reforms. Madam Member, the PS does not diverge so much from the PSD. She said that the PSD did not diverge from the troika, because Passos Coelho took a position in which the PSD program was similar to the troika program. Now, the troika program was similar to the PS program, so PS, PSD and CDS-PP converge in our country's right-wing policy. Is that, or is it not, a factor that contributes to the worsening of our country's poverty? In our understanding, that is the main reason why our country is in the situation in which it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u165	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u166	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Machado, in fact it would be normal for Minister Mota Soares if he existed as Minister of Solidarity — there have been several moments when he proved that he did not exist, this is only one more — if he had already pronounced, because this data was disclosed on Friday and until today it has not been heard. But, Mr President, more than Minister Mota Soares, it would have to be Mr Prime Minister to come to this House, even on his own initiative, to respond to these data of poverty and to say, as first responsible for the government, what he believes should change in his policies so that these data do not continue to worsen. The honourable Member, in his request for clarification, attempted to link PS policies to PSD and CDS-PP and right-wing policies, and spoke of a pact. Mr President, the biggest pact ever seen in this House was the pact between the Communist Party, the PSD and the CDS-PP... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u167	...to lead the PEC 4, which opened the way to the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, the CFP also knows how to assume its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u168	They betrayed the poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u169	But if the Member and the CFP consider that the PS — which created the social income of insertion, which created the solidarity complement for the elderly, who put it in pre-school education, who put it in full-time school, who put it on school passes — with its policies, with all that I said, is similar to the PSD and the CDS, then I do not know what the CFP would consider to be different. I believe that, more than this, your speech deserves no comment from me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u170	Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u171	Madam President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, poverty is a constant concern for us, just as it should be for all Portuguese. It is also for the government, such as unemployment. In combating unemployment, however, poverty is also being tackled, Mrs Deputy. Madam Member, in order to refocus the debate seriously at the heart of the matter, I would like to say that the data from the INE referred to refer to 2013. Now, as we all know, in the first quarter of 2013 unemployment peaked in this country. This unemployment was a consequence of the crisis, it was a consequence of the failure of the country, it was a consequence of the first shock treatment that resulted from the implementation of the measures of the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u172	That was in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u173	Fortunately, from 2013 until today it has been mid-2014 and we have already had eight consecutive trimesters of growth of the economy, employment growth and unemployment rate drop. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Protests are signs that you are feeling uncomfortable with my intervention! So we had the growth of the economy, the growth of employment and the fall in the unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u174	And more poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u175	Mrs Deputy, seriously, in view of this, and when more than 130 000 net jobs have been created since then, according to INE statistics, it is not compatible to say that for 2014 it is our expectation and our trust that the data contained in the INE statistics for 2013 will be kept. However, with this concern in mind and the notion of this reality, this Government, since the first year — moreover, simply read the State budgets — has always increased the value of transfers to social benefits. It's always increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u176	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u177	Therefore, it is false that he has cut these values, because he always increases them. Mrs Depute, INE's data reported the situation in which, as a result of what happened, many Portuguese in 2013 and the decrease in average incomes, but it does not, of course, refer to something that resulted from the government's concern: the creation of a local network with economic transfers of billions of euros from the government to institutions of social solidarity, precisely to address those people who were in need. That's not reported, Your Honor! Therefore, no one was left behind, people with smaller resources had support on the ground through the programmes that the government created in collaboration with private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ). Having said this, I would like to report on what Mr Adam Silva said when he said that this Memorandum is not a party programme. For it is not, Madam Member, I fully agree, but it is a program that results from the parties of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u178	It comes from the party that for the Socialist Party was your governance, Mrs. Deputy. And this party had its melting climax in 2009, in a pre-election period, without recalling, when, with the country already failed, it increased the salaries by 3, 5 % and reduced the VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u179	Mr. Deputy, I wanted to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u180	I conclude now, Madam President. And what was the result in 2010? I leave this question to you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u181	It is true to conclude, Member of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u182	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. Who, in 2010, cut the family allowance to half a million families? Who cut EUR 40 million in the RSI in 2010, Mrs Deputy? Who created the resource condition and began to apply it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u183	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u184	I conclude now, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the real issues. Who cut it? Was it the PS or were we? Who threw it away? Was it the PS or were we? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u185	Both of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u186	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u187	Mr President, Mr Artur Rêgo, for those with government responsibilities like the CDS-PP at the moment, it is not enough to say, before the numbers, that poverty is a constant concern. Poverty is certainly a constant concern, but the parties that support the government cannot only make statements of these. The first mistake that the Government can make, and which, moreover, the Prime Minister has already made, is, in view of these data of poverty, to devalue them, to say that they are no longer very important because they no longer reflect the reality that we are living today — which cannot be assessed, is it not true? — but, yes, a reality of the past. Therefore, Mr President, this mistake does not fall by the Socialist Party. On the other hand, in 2014 and 2015 cuts remain in social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u188	Say which one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u189	And neither the PSD nor the CDS have said in this debate whether or not they continue with the intention to maintain the cut of EUR 100 million in the social benefits foreseen in the 2015 State budget. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u190	Now, since the Government is not present, it was on this issue that you are talking about. Members of the majority should have the ability to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u191	Say what subsidies we cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u192	The honourable Member spoke about the fall in unemployment. Mr President, these figures on poverty also reflect a frightening reality: poverty in the employed continues to increase, i.e. the people who work, who have incomes at work, still do not earn enough to get out of the poverty situation. That is what you and your party also have to answer. The honourable Member also spoke about the weight of social transfers in 2013. It is true that the weight of social transfers in 2013 was slightly better than in 2012, but it was still below 2011. If you are pleased with this number, it is because you do not want to see the reality in your whole. As for the PS party, I will not classify the bad taste of this expression that most like to use. I will just remind you that the current Prime Minister, with regard to the performance of the Socialist Party Government in 2009 and 2010, said that, essentially—there are records in the media that show it—the government was able to respond well to the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u194	He said that the government was acting in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union — because the honourable Members. Members need to know that the measures of the Socialist Party's Government in 2009 and 2010 were part of the European crisis strategy — that the measures were correct. So, say the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, accuse the Socialist Party of what they accuse of, the reality is one and unforgettable: your action in government has increased poverty; your strategy of expansionist austerity has increased poverty. And even increasing poverty, they couldn't even consolidate public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u195	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u196	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u197	Madam President, I tried not to make this request, but for the third time Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos referred to the fact that the Minister or the Government were not present. Therefore, I would like to ask you two questions, Madam President, even for the information you are hearing and seeing. First of all, in the space dedicated to political declarations is it customary for the government to be present? Secondly, Madam President, I would like to know whether the Socialist Party required any kind of debate in time for the Minister to be present. It is not worth saying here, as the honourable Member has done for three times, that the Minister is not present (for the first time I pretended that I did not hear, for the second time also) as if the Minister was not here because he fled when he did not flee. In fact, not only did he not flee as the PS did not even require his presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u198	Mr President, I must assume that your first question is rhetorical, because anyone with the least experience in this Parliament knows that the period of political declarations does not have the participation of government members. Your second question will have to be addressed to the Socialist Party's bench. So I have already asked Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos whether she has, in any way, invited or requested the presence of the Minister, since she complained of her absence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u199	Mr President, of course, the issue I have raised is not of a regulatory nature, it is of a political nature. And what I said, that Minister Mota Soares has not yet spoken about the data of poverty, is absolutely true. Just try to search the press for any statement by the Minister who will not find it, as I have not found it either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u200	I understand your intention, Mrs Deputies, but the Bureau also heard your record on the absence of the Minister in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u201	Madam President, exemption!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u202	But it is very easy to confirm, it is enough to use the recordings of the canal parliament. Continuing with the political statements, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was published today in Ordinance No 19 / 2015 of 4 February 2015 approving the standard compensation model for small agricultural producers meeting the conditions for the application of the special VAT exemption scheme, allowing those taxable persons to apply to the Tax and Customs Authority for VAT compensation in relation to their agricultural activity. In a simple way, we will call it the VAT compensation scheme for small farmers. This compensation is intended to mitigate the impact of the tax incurred on the acquisition of goods and services for the pursuit of the economic activity of the small agricultural producer. This scheme of VAT compensation for small farmers covers 129 172 taxable persons who may be beneficiaries. These beneficiaries are devoted to the following crops: polyculture(48 101 small farmers) — beneficiaries produce several crops, without any of them covering two thirds of the total standard production, such as rice, floriculture or horticulture; mixed production(13,849 small farmers) — identical to polyculture, with the difference that they also have animal production activity; other ruminants(11,577 small farmers) — sheep and goats; olive (11,343 small farmers); arvenses and other dominant crops of irrigation (about 15,000 small farmers) — maize, wheat, rye, oats, in irrigation or drought mode; finally, wines(8,161 small farmers). The VAT compensation scheme for small farmers has an impact of about EUR 21, EUR 4 million that the small agricultural economy will receive. This is a historic milestone in the lives of small farmers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The VAT scheme was introduced in Portugal on 1 January 1986. I repeat: the VAT scheme was introduced in Portugal on 1 January 1986. It is only 29 years ago that small farmers can receive compensation for the tax they pay to produce their crops, and that is why this portfolio is also a historic landmark, giving the possibility of these small economic agents being compensated by 10 % of their turnover, provided that their income is less than 10 000 € per year. The historical nature of this measure is still highlighted by the fact that it has been a Community possibility which has long been allowed and in practice in more than 17 countries, but which is only now implemented in Portugal. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the type of application for VAT compensation for small farmers now approved and published is simple and can be done electronically, via the financial portal, or by verbal presentation in any finance service, and the request must contain only two elements: the value of the transfers of goods and the provision of services carried out in the previous half which confer the right to compensation; the tax identification numbers of the acquirers or recipients of such transactions. Applications shall be made by 20 July or 20 January of each year in respect of operations carried out in the previous half and the Tax and Customs Authority(AT ) shall analyse and credit, in the event of a deferral within 45 days, the amount of compensation in the taxable person's bank account. Cooperatives, wineries and producer organisations can and should play an important role in supporting and monitoring small producers. There are already several organizations to train and disseminate this scheme, such as the Order of Official Accounts Techniques and the CAP, with the support of PRODER, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The first of these actions will take place on the next Monday in Santarém and others follow, between 23 February and 13 March, from North to South and from the Interior to the Country Coastal, from Ponte de Lima to Macedo de Cavaliers, from Vila Nova de Foz Coa to Aveiro, from Leiria to Grândola. There will be more than 12 free training actions for farmers and official account technicians. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The VAT compensation scheme for small farmers, which should have been introduced in Portugal nearly a decade ago, did not deserve due attention from previous governments. In the first three years, the current government was prevented from dealing with the Memorandum of Understanding to which the country was subject during the Troika intervention period. In the first budget in which Portugal has had freedom of choice and in which Portugal has regained its budgetary sovereignty, the Government introduced the regime and, in the first quarter, regulates the form of access to the law. It is thus guaranteed that small agriculture will have access to a right which Community legislation allows and which 17 more countries already benefited. Each small agricultural producer can be compensated annually by 10 % of its turnover, VAT-based, which happens for the first time. To obtain compensation, the process is very simple. This scheme can benefit 129 172 small farmers. The estimate is that these small producers can be compensated by the State at about EUR 21, EUR 4 million, which will greatly contribute to improving the income of farmers and their families and to improving their exploitation. Finally, the Government can do justice about a measure that should have been implemented for a long time and which has only now been implemented. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u204	There are registrations by PS, PSD and PCP for requests for clarification to Mr. Abel Baptista. First of all, Mr Miguel Freitas of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the INE has just released the numbers on the loss of employment in agriculture today: less 74,000 jobs in agriculture in 2014. This, yes, is the result of this government's policy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Less than 74 000 jobs in agriculture, one third of the total jobs that have been lost in the last five years. This is the result of the policies of this government. But not only! As we know, 15 000 small farmers have also abandoned their activities thanks to this government's policy over the past three years. We have seen about 25 % decrease in the number of holdings up to 1 ha and about 15 % the number of holdings between 1 and 5 ha. This is the policy of this government against small farmers and against employment in agriculture. The government comes with flat-rate VAT, but it is good to say that it has created an optional regime after it has created a compulsory system for the registration of small farmers in finance. This is, on the one hand, created a regime requiring farmers to collect themselves and, on the other hand, created an optional regime for small farmers who were forced to collect themselves. But this system has a small feature: this year, all farmers who are enrolled in normal VAT will have to make, if they wish to opt into this scheme, a transition to the standard scheme. What is going to happen is that in the first year most farmers who want to join this system will have to restore money to the State, they will have to make a regularisation in favour of the State. But we need to say more: direct sale does not have access to this regime and, therefore, we have the government to create a great expectation for this regime and, of course, what we are going to have is, once again, a disappointing regime. See the other emblematic measure of this government: the land bank. We were talking about the great agrarian reform, the new agrarian reform that this government was going to make. Fifteen months later, there were only 42 concessions. You know what that means, Mr. Abel Baptista? Only two land parcel transfers for each month in which the land bank is in implementation. A great regime was announced, a great expectation, that of agrarian reform, but what we have is a disappointing regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u206	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u207	Mr. Abel Baptista, you still have to answer another question. The Government came to this Parliament a year ago to launch rockets on the International Year of Family Agriculture. Mr President, tell me a measure that has come out of what has been an absolutely empty work of this government in this matter. That is, this International Year of Family Agriculture was absolutely nothing in favour of farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baptista has chosen to respond together to all requests for clarification. You therefore have the floor, Mr Pedro Alves, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Abel Baptista on his political statement and congratulate him once again on bringing agriculture to the centre of the political debate in this Parliament. And do not do so through a manifesto of intentions or recommendations based on diagnoses and narratives that we all already know, but do so, above all, through a factual demonstration that agriculture is a priority for this government. In the field of agriculture, the good news is multiplying, either through large agriculture, the one that is competitive, whether at the level of small agriculture, the one whose competitiveness is compromised, but which is certainly viable in our territory so diverse. The example of the creation of a flat-rate scheme for small agricultural producers is one of the measures which shows that this Government is looking at all models of national agriculture. It would therefore be contrary to the the thesis on the left that the government forgets small agriculture. The creation of a scheme where all producers with annual incomes up to €10 000 can recover 6 % of VAT from their sales and services is proof of the appreciation of small agriculture. Under this scheme, published today at the door, small farmers will have a more friendly, less bureaucratic taxation. They therefore look forward to cash benefits in small agricultural enterprises with positive consequences in regional economies and, consequently, in the national economy. In addition to the implementation of this regime, there have been numerous positive political decisions for less competitive agriculture, such as the smallest one, which prevails in the generality of our territory. I recall, for example, that under the CAP a small farming scheme has been established, where all farmers who wish to join have a single income of €500. Thus, it was chosen for a simplified model for small farmers, avoiding bureaucratic procedures associated with CAP payments. On the other hand, it has been established that all farmers receiving CAP support less than €1670 will not have to sign up for social security and are exempted from reporting IRS to finance. In addition to the exemption from transport guides for farmers' production factors, the Government has simplified and harmonized those guidelines so that the farmer has only one route for several purposes: the farmer and the prosecutor. Mr. Abel Baptista, I ask you if you consider, as we do in the PSD, that it is now essential that we achieve greater simplification of the filling of invoices for small farmers who sell their production on fairs and on local markets also as a way to dynamize this mode of marketing. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u210	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Abel Baptista, this is not the first time that you have brought this issue to plenary. So many of us are starting to think that you have nothing more to present in relation to agriculture but the subject of flat-rate VAT, but if you would like to give you a few examples. Yesterday, the CFP Parliamentary Group was in the Aveiro district — the district that even elects the leader of your party — meeting with farmers. For example, as regards milk producers, the government said that it was going to hit the quotas, but then it accepted the end of the quotas without protesting. Producers sell milk at 30 or 32 cents when the minimum for holdings would be 40 cents. The value has come down—it has fallen in August and has fallen again—and it is expected that it will go down until August next year. The solution the Government presents to this problem is to say that producers have to transform, as if all milk that is produced in Portugal could be processed into cheese or yogurt. Other examples: we were also gathered with potato producers. According to agricultural statistics, the country imported 55 % of the potato it consumed in 2013. They say that the minimum price for the viability of the holding is 15 cents per kilo, but in 2014 they sold it at 5 cents. In the same period, in supermarkets, the potato was for sale at 99 cents per kilo. In fact, we have even heard the example of a young farmer — of whom you speak so much — who told us that you are thinking about changing his exploitation for Venezuela because here in Portugal you cannot endure producing potatoes. With regard to this problem, the distribution maintains 75 % of trade and PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ), unfortunately, has failed at all. Is this the success? This is the future? We'd like to know, sir. Let me also tell you, Mr Commissioner, that the brand of this government, the Ministry of Agriculture, the CDS, as well as the PS, is to be with the big and the small. We have very clear examples of this. One of them is that of the House of Douro, where small producers are unprotected to be next to trade and large production, particularly through the association of exporters and through the CAP. Another example is that of the renters of the Machados Heritage, in which the government stands next to the former owner, who already exploits 4000 ha, against 50 tenants who exploit, on average, 38 ha in their holdings. As I said, when I put myself next to the old owner, the government first retreats and then goes back to the cargo. These are the trademarks of the CDS government. With regard to this issue of flat-rate VAT, it is important to say that it has emerged because you have forced farmers to register in finance, and this obligation to register has excluded more than 15 000 farmers from the system and support. It is also important to clarify that, first, they said "we have to apply this regime of obligation to register in finance because the European Court requires us". Today, from the rostrum, you have already said that 'this is our flag, we are on the side of the small ones and we apply flat-rate VAT'. Mr President, it would be better to clarify and clarify whether they have been obliged or whether it is your will.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u212	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u213	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that with this system they will increase — and have increased — the costs of farmers with accounting, it is not deductible the sale that producers make to consumers. Direct consumers, markets, direct sales are the major market for the purchase of products to these producers, which unfortunately cannot access flat-rate VAT. That is why it is all more a propaganda maneuver and, unfortunately, of little success for farmers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u214	To reply, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Ramos, Mr. Pedro Alves and Mr. Miguel Freitas, I thank the questions put. The gentlemen. Members João Ramos and Miguel Freitas have basically raised the same question. See if you understand the issue of registration in finance, because it is right to speak the truth. Even if we are in opposition and criticise some initiatives or we are jealous that they exist, we must speak the truth. Compulsory registration in finance was a decision of the European Court which forced the Portuguese State to do so. Therefore, it was not a government decision. The government has fought to the limit so that this does not happen. All farmers with incomes of less than €600 and few euros were released from this registration; up to €10 000 were exempt from any payment and from making a VAT or IRS declaration and up to €20 000 were exempt from any VAT payment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand each other. So this government is against small farmers and wants to benefit 130 000 small farmers? Is this government against small farmers and all small farmers now receive at least 500 € a year of support when, at the moment, some of them receive only about €100 or €150? Is this against the small farmers? Oh, my God! Is it against small farmers when farmers with urban buildings intended exclusively for agricultural purposes will be taxed in rustic IMI? Oh, my God! There are farmers who paid €5800 of IMI, for example, for a vacation and will now pay about €300. Is this against the small farmers? Oh, my God! Mr. Miguel Freitas, being against small farmers would not be paying them in time and time, as happened during the Government of Minister Jaime Silva of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u216	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u217	This, yes, was against the small farmers! To stand against small farmers was when it was said that agriculture was by line and only for the competitive rows. This, yes, was to be against small agriculture! To be against small farmers is not to allow them to have access, through their producer associations, to many of the support that Community agriculture provides them. This, yes, is against the little farmer! Mr. Miguel Freitas, I know you don't like the issue of the land exchange, but the land exchange is a measure that is being implemented, is making its way and has already adhered. It is a new measure, which did not exist, in which the State does not have to spend millions on paringling, for example, to allow farmers to have access to land. The honourable Member said there were people who left agriculture. It has perhaps forgotten to say that many of those who have left have given rise to young farmers for farms that have to have another dynamic. As you know, one of the problems of Portuguese agriculture is the overage of farmers, one of the highest in Europe and where there are fewer young farmers with access to land. And that has been a measure that has been in force. Mr. Pedro Alves, of course, that simplification of turnover, which is one of the measures being worked out and which has been implemented through the proximity markets, is another step in supporting family agriculture. contrary to what Mr Freitas says, of course there is support, of course there is incentive and clear that there is a follow-up of family agriculture, because it is not only this small agriculture, almost all Portuguese agriculture is family agriculture. In Portugal, 98 % of agricultural holdings are basic family farms, where the owner and his family work in the company. Family farming is not the same as subsistence agriculture, but rather agriculture that belongs to a family and in which the family is the operating entity. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u218	We will continue with the political statements. On behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP held its Parliamentary Days in Aveiro, for the defence of national production, for the creation of employment and for the exploitation of wages and rights. The reality of this district is no different nor is it disconnected from the reality lived in the rest of the country and clearly reveals the consequences of right-wing politics in the lives of people and the country. A reality confirmed in these Days, in which we have seen the great difficulties experienced by farmers, fishermen, footwear workers, corkscrew and the car industry, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, with the obvious consequences for the national economy. A reality verified in agriculture, which takes great importance in the district, despite the failure to implement the project of Lower Vouga Lagunar and the government's flight to compliance with resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic, which leads to the advancement of soil salinization and the loss of productive capacity in one of the most fertile areas of the country. In vegetable production, the price reduction, as can be seen with the potato, which has been paid to Portuguese producers at 5 cents/kg, while the Government has authorized the importation of potatoes from Lebanon, throwing farmers into situations of deep difficulties, like the milk producers, who will see their situation aggravated with the end of milk quotas. It is the government alongside the large owners, large industry and large distribution ( which owns 75 % of the agricultural market in Portugal ), against small production and family farming, whose role in the production of quality products and in the occupation of the territory and the settlement of villages in our country is fundamental. In fishing, an economic activity also of great relevance in the district, significantly accentuated the difficulties experienced by fishermen, much because of the low prices practiced in the first batch sale, as well as the stop on sardine fishing. Also in this sector, in addition to the imposition of measures harmful to fishing activity and the rights of fishermen, the Government is fleeing the resolutions adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, and complying with those relating to blue-eyed art. In industry, with the destruction of thousands of jobs and the closure of numerous companies, often leaving entire families unemployed. In education, where there was a shortage of professionals, it was possible to observe the discontent of the population with the closure of schools and other public services. In health, the acute shortage of professionals, coupled with the blind closure of health units, services and hospital valences, brings into question the right to health. In transport, with the example of the Vouga line, whose future is uncertain due to the government's investment options and the intentional degradation of the line and service, aiming at its closure, a fundamental transport to the population that, without alternatives, does not have to travel to the city of Aveiro. For all this, the CFP will propose an emergency plan for the Aveiro district with a set of concrete measures to respond to the problems identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u220	This district is exporter of footwear of excellence!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Aveiro district is an example of the dramatic consequences of right-wing policy, the responsibilities that the PSD/CDS government does not want to take and the fantasy of its propaganda. The fallacy of the 'clean exit' propagated by the government is denied by the worsening economic and social situation, namely the high levels of unemployment and the continued deterioration of the living conditions of workers and populations. Far from the announcements made of economic recovery, the day-to-day of most Portuguese is marked by the increase in poverty and exploitation, by the loss of purchasing power, by the growing difficulty of access to public services, with particular emphasis on health, and by the oppression of labour and social rights. The options of the current government impose on the people a path of impoverishment, while supporting measures that allow large economic and financial groups to grow their profits. The tragic numbers revealed by the INE are enlightening: 2, 7 million Portuguese at risk of poverty, confirming a brutal worsening of family living conditions — an increase of more than 30 % between 2010 and 2013. This is the balance of the policies of successive Governments PS, PSD and CDS, the PEC and the troika pact, which these same parties have subscribed and that PSD and CDS are fully executed: benefit of the great interests at the expense of the suffering imposed on workers and the people. Portugal is not a poor country, it is a country that has been impoverished, the result of the right-wing policy practised by PS, PSD and CDS, of destruction of national production and dismantling of the production apparatus, of subservience to the dictates of the European Union and of ties to a budgetary treaty negotiated and defended by these same parties, which have transformed Portugal into an exporting country of cheap and consumer labour in the countries of the centre. The path chosen by the parties that have alternated in the government is not inevitable. Portugal is not condemned to the loss of sovereignty, to the increase of poverty and social inequalities, to the worsening living conditions of its people. Following the Parliamentary Days, the CFP will present concrete proposals, such as: an intergovernmental conference, integrated into a set of initiatives by the Portuguese State at the international level, aimed at renegotiating debt and repealing the budget treaty; draft laws and resolutions for regulating fuel prices; draft law on criminalization of unjustified enrichment, based on the obligation of all citizens to declare and indicate the concrete and compatible origin of their legitimate incomes, heritage or high-value capital increases that enter their possession, as well as a set of initiatives with measures to strengthen the fight against corruption and economic and financial crime; and a set of other proposals to defend labour and social rights, to wage national production at the service of the country's economic development, in the path of social progress, by a future Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u222	Mrs Diana Ferreira, Mrs Ferreira, has written to ask for clarification, three Mrs. Members: one, the PS, the other, the PSD, and the other, the Left Block. She said that she was responding together to requests for clarification. Mr. Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u223	Mrs President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, you have here drawn a rather black picture of the economic and social situation of the Aveiro district. I would say that, unfortunately, this picture is not reduced to the Aveiro district. It is a framework which is widespread in many regions of the country and which results from a development strategy based on a framework, which was the government's option, which translates into a reduction in people's available income through not only the effective reduction of wages and pensions but also the increase in the tax burden. We all remember the words of former Minister Vítor Gaspar, who promised us all, and fulfilled, a brutal increase in the tax burden. Those words, which were addressed to the President of the CDS, the now Deputy Prime Minister Paulo Portas, were addressed to him, but those with whom he suffered were all Portuguese. Mrs Deputy, this framework which you have translated here and which, from your point of view, justifies the presentation of an emergency plan for the Aveiro district will certainly justify an emergency plan for the country. And this emergency plan will have to have a first point on which we have to deal today: that of the evaluation of the political action of this government. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS and Mrs. Members of the PSD — and Mrs Diana Ferreira will say whether you agree with me or not — you can be sure that this assessment that will be made in Parliament and that will be made by the Portuguese in the forthcoming elections will not be a positive assessment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u224	Mr. Paulo Cavalleiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u225	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I begin by complimenting you. Madam Member, I hope the CFP has had a good stay in my district, which is a good land and good people. Interestingly, the PS has put a Member of Lisbon talking about the Aveiro district, but the Aveiro district is one of the districts in which, as throughout the country, unemployment has come down and where unemployment data recorded in December 2014 point to a sharp decline of 15 %. So it is a positive fact and it is a fact that unemployment has actually fallen in 18 of the 19 municipalities. But the PCP didn't talk about this, because the PCP likes to talk about negative things, likes to talk about things that go wrong. In my opinion, you have lost the opportunity to talk about positive things here, just in a district that has many positive aspects to talk about. This district is a world leader in several sectors. It is very strong in areas such as cork, textiles, lighting, molds, metal mechanics, footwear, agriculture, fishing, ceramics... it is very strong. And he's got fantastic workers and entrepreneurs. But the PCP didn't talk about it. It is a district where port activity grows, where exports also grow and where there are good institutions and an excellent university. But the PCP didn't talk about it either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u227	And where there are also good autoarchs with a strategic vision. PCP shows you don't know the Aveiro district well. He has now been more informed, certainly. But the fact is that what they stand for has not succeeded in seducing the Aveirans, because they have not had the votes, nor the representatives in this district.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u229	We fully understand your strategy and your goals by taking these days in Aveiro and by talking so much about Aveiro now. But I think that, just a few months from the elections, you are no longer in time to solve your problem of affirmation in this district. We know that there are problems and that, for some, we have reached consensus here in Parliament. We know exactly what the problems are and we know them closely because we are there every day, we follow the issues every week, not only from time to time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u230	And we fight for them, we don't just worry about talking about them, and we try to figure them out. It's not just rockets, nor is it just because you remember them, nor is it your propaganda that problems are solved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u231	We know very well that now that the country is beginning to grow above the European Union average, the conditions for solving some of these problems arise. The CFP, in my view, has missed an opportunity here, an opportunity to make politics for the positive. It's just that it brought us the problems, it didn't bring us the solutions. And the voters in my district are much more fond of solutions than just listening to someone listing the problems. The question that I leave to Mrs Deputy is whether the CFP recognizes the vitality and strength of this district and its institutions and is available to find feasible solutions to solve some of the problems that we know exist. But it's not this way, it's not just listing negative questions, that we're going there. Aveiro district was a good opportunity for the PCP. I'm sorry it was a missed opportunity in your speech. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u232	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u233	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I begin by complimenting the PCP for choosing the Aveiro district to make its parliamentary days. It is true — unlike other opinions that are less based on the concrete life of those who live in the Aveiro district and on the difficulties that this government has placed in the lives of these people, with the degradation of public services, with the degradation of people's expectations about what their country should give them and with the degradation of an economic fabric that should respond to job creation — that who says what the PSD now says does not know the district well. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u234	I'm going to ask a very simple and very direct question. The CFP certainly had a concern in its debate not only about economy and production but also about public services, because this is an essential aspect in the concerns of those living in the Aveiro district. The two major hospitals in the district are in the newspaper headlines not because they are an example at national level but because they are a bad example of what this government has done to the country. We see the Aveiro hospital that, on the waiting lists for consultations and operations, after all, harassed people in waiting times and did not respond to their needs. And when asked about this, the government says there is no novelty because it already knew about the problem. So I ask you, Madam Member: is a government that is aware of this abuse responsible for the harm that it does to people? When we look to the north of the district and we know about the problems of that user who says that he should have an urgent operation and was forgotten because they marked and noted the operation, but the operation itself has never been carried out, we realize the policy of this government, which hides "under the carpet" what should be essential— and the essential thing should be to solve the health problems. Now, before these two examples, it fell like a castle of letters this orange and blue dream, which PSD and CDS say the government created in Aveiro district. That is why I ask you, Madam Member, if we should not be concerned about this reality, because it is bad for people, and for this government and for these Members, because they do not really represent people because they do not even understand their problems and their difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u235	Don't say that! The Members are here for the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u236	They do not represent people's concerns, because they do not know the difficulties they feel in their day to day! I can repeat it to exhaustion. It is that there was not even a word about employment, there was no word about health, there was no word about education, there was no word about an economy that is necessary for people. [[PSD protests.]] And now, having spoken about the port of Aveiro, there was no word about the environmental crime and attack on public health that is happening there with petcoke. After all, they know so much, but they know so little! This is the reality that really exists in the Aveiro district. from there we need to change not only this government but also the representatives of this district. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u237	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I begin by replying to Mr. Paulo Cavaleiro, saying that he should have been with us on these parliamentary days that the CFP held in the Aveiro district. I should have been with us talking to the court workers, to learn about the generalization of the precariousness that exists in the sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u239	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u240	... of continuing unemployment, of low wages and late wages in a set of companies in the Aveiro district.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u242	It should have been with us to talk to farmers who suffer the consequences of the political options of this government. I should have been with us talking to the fishermen in the district, fishermen who are banned from fishing or who are forced to go to sea without security. And it should have been with us also to talk to the users of the district, to hear the concerns felt about the chaos that has occurred in the emergencies of the various hospitals of the district and that the CFP has repeatedly told the Minister of Health and also the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u243	In fact, in this regard, I must say that a set of hospital emergencies have been disclassified in the Aveiro district, particularly in the hospitals of Espinho, Ovar, Águeda and São João da Madeira, which is the result of successive government political options.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u244	It was the PS. It wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u245	I would also like to say that, in fact, an emergency plan is needed for the Aveiro district, which the CFP will present, and for the country, an emergency plan that goes through the rupture with these political options that have been carried out by successive governments. In fact, it is necessary to break up with the European Union's taxes and the budget treaty so that we can have a sovereign country and that it is turning to social progress and economic development, to the service of the workers and the people, and not to the service of the large economic and financial groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u246	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on our agenda, which consisted of political declarations, is thus concluded. We will continue with the second and last point of our agenda, namely, the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 752 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ) and 755 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted medicinal products ( LDCs ), by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ). To present the Socialist Party bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 32 / 2006, the amendment we are discussing today, represented a decisive step in the area of assisted drug procreation, regulating the use of thousands of families to the answers that scientific research offers them to overcome the barriers that infertility places to the constitution of the family. However, it is essential and urgent to consider also the valorisation of equality, autonomy and individual freedom in the construction of the law system of WFP, eliminating the rules which today discriminate against assisted reproductive techniques. This, and only this, is what we are dealing with today in this House: to remove the discriminatory obstacles that see access to WFP to single women and couples of the same sex, extending the number of beneficiaries who, freely and clearly, can opt for the use of the answers that science offers to everyone today. in a free and democratic society, oriented by respect for individual freedom, by the principle of equality and committed to the realization of fundamental rights, is a long-term and necessary solution. Therefore, we propose the recognition of WFP as a complementary technique of procreation and the consequent abolition of the requirements relating to the civil status or sexual orientation of beneficiaries. It is not at this headquarters to define or reorganize the supply of LDCs techniques in the National Health Service — it is a relevant and structural debate, but it is not the debate that we are holding today — but only to stipulate to whom the use of LDCs is lawful in Portugal, eliminating an unconstitutionality that takes time to disappear. It is only this dimension of the realization of the individual happiness of many Portuguese and Portuguese people who must summon us to today's theme, allowing Portugal to respect the Constitution and to follow the framework of comparative law which, consensually, has been built in this direction. It is not possible today to find a justification for denying a single woman the decision-making of her family life, and the smallest idea that she needs to be married should be removed in order to be allowed to make fundamental decisions at this headquarters. As it is also not possible to find justification for disqualifying same-sex couples, depending on their sexual orientation, also denying them the ability to carry out their family projects. Allow me, in conclusion, a brief note and a slight gap as to what the role of law should be in a democratic society. On the walls of the college where I graduated, at the entrance, magnificent panels of Almada Negroes give us a perspective of the History of Law, from antiquity to the codifiers of the 19th century. in these panels of the great jurists there is not a single woman represented. I do not want to make a critical assessment of the panels here — history is what it is, we have to live with it — but we have to question the interests of this reference. The answer is simple: the story told there says a lot about the prospects in which, today, it continues to underpin the construction of the legal order and the law, a construction made by men and men and in which, unfortunately, the full autonomy that should be recognised by women is not always recognized. And it is the survival of this construction that we must be able to overcome, eliminate discrimination and also conceptions that no longer belong to the 21st century. The favourable vote is a good way to get started. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u248	You now have the floor to Mrs Helena Pinto to present the bill of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Law of 2006 on Assisted Medicinal Products (WFP) has been filling a legislative void that made no sense, taking into account the possibilities that these clinical techniques allow. From 2006 to today, WFP has had a great worldwide expansion and also in our country, despite some shortcomings. Through these techniques, many women and many men can implement their parenthood project, a significant part of their life project. In essence, this is about the happiness of these citizens and citizens. Nine years after the adoption of the law of WFP, it is urgent that it deepen and remove the limitations contained in the law itself which prevent wider access to the techniques of WFP, either by couples of the same sex or by women alone. The proposal of the Left Block, which we present for the second time, is clear: all women, regardless of whether or not they have a diagnosis of infertility and regardless of their marital status, should be able to have access to the techniques of LDCs. We thus eliminate discrimination based on the civil state and its sexual orientation. This is also a qualitative change, another step forward. WFP is no longer just a subsidiary method of procreation and is also an alternative method of procreation. After nine years on the approval of the Law, you cannot argue with lack of debate or with the fact that society is not prepared. There is no argument justifying the denial of LDC techniques to whom you wish to have a child or a daughter. Advances in medicine should be placed in the service of people, their personal performance and their happiness. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is within our power to make the law of WFP fairer and to promote equality by eliminating discrimination. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u251	Ms. Paula Santos ( PCP ). — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After almost 10 years on the regulation of assisted reproductive techniques, we make a positive assessment of the 2006 law. It was this law that allowed the use of scientific knowledge to overcome situations of infertility or prevent the transmission of serious diseases to descendants, which, so far, was not possible, constituting a civilizational advance in medicine and access to sexual and reproductive rights. This law has enabled the fulfillment of the dream of many families to have a child by extending accessibility to LDCs techniques, although there is still a long way to go, given the numerous obstacles that persist today and which prevent accessibility to techniques, including high drug costs, waiting lists and insufficient response capacity of assisted public reproductive centers. We refuse and continue to refuse to discuss this matter on the basis of what is natural or not. In 2006 we stated that « moral rules are also in permanent evolution and whenever human beings realize that changing what was of ‘ stone and lime ’ can make things better, which is done through knowledge, then new concepts of licentiousness or lawlessness arise. In the area that we are currently dealing with, these are the basis of bioethics that must govern any regulation of assisted reproductive techniques, which, in fact, according to what has been said, will also always be under syndicate, because knowledge may give rise to new rights, principles or values". Therefore, for the PCP, the current law is not finished and must follow this evolution. We agree with the need to change the law of WFP, including improvement changes suggested by the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products and which point solutions to specific problems, in particular the issue of the elimination of excess embryos at the end of a given period, which is incomprehensiblely left blank in the law in force. The draft laws amending the law of WFP today under discussion propose changes that go beyond the question of women's couples' access to the techniques of LDCs. This issue, moreover, does not go far from the discussion on women's access to these techniques alone, a proposal which the CFP made in 2006 during the discussion of the law. However, what is being discussed today is also the change in the current conception of the use of LDCs techniques, considering them as an alternative or complementary method of reproduction. In our view, this is not an amendment of detail, it is an option with deeper repercussions on the purpose and the situations in which LDCs techniques should be used. This discussion on the techniques of LDCs is no longer a subsidiary method and is considered an alternative or complementary method of reproduction raises numerous doubts about the fact that in the recent process of specialization on LDCs, it has not been removed from its subsidiary nature. It is a matter in which we need to deepen analysis and reflection, involving political parties, health professionals and the academic community. Considering the available elements and the existing reflection, we continue to understand how appropriate the use of LDCs techniques based on a diagnosis of infertility, obviously admitting the use of these same techniques to avoid the transmission of serious diseases to descendants, maintaining the techniques in the field of health intervention. Even if the debate is only in the perspective in which the proponents put it, we have many doubts that such changes should be considered in relation to the LDCs when the issue of adoption by couples of the same sex, which the CFP accompanied by a favourable vote in the last debate, is not even resolved. In view of this whole discussion framework and the elements that we referred to on these initiatives, which put the techniques of LDCs as a complementary method of reproduction, we cannot turn ourselves away from voting against. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u252	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that we are debating today intend to resume a discussion recently held in another place, trying to bring in the « window» what the « door» has not been viable, in our view, removing the one that should be the focus, the basic criterion when talking about assisted drug procreation, paid with the money of all of us, that is, the criterion of infertility. That is the issue which, in our view, should chair this debate and not another one. For the PSD, the claim of maternity as a social good and the finding of the increasing number of children born with the use of LDCs techniques demonstrate the enormous relevance of this issue in countries such as Portugal that struggle with the problem of the very low birth rate. Thus, this theme was, and well, rescued for the political agenda, because for years it was only perceived as a topic of women. We, PSD, have no doubt that children who are born through the techniques of LDCs have since assured their first right: that of being very desired. But also, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have no doubt that we are reviewing ourselves in the general principles of Law No 32 / 2006, according to which these LDCs techniques constitute a subsidiary rather than an alternative method of procreation. We therefore understand infertility as a disease and, thus, as others, with obligations for the State, with costs for the State budget. Therefore, who should, in the first instance, have access to them are the patients, as Professor Walter Osswald has already stated, for example, to which this Government has given good attention, since it has already implemented, as it is known, in two hospitals in this country, the possibility of infertile couples resorting to the second cycle of fertility treatments. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for this bench there are corollaries which today are shaped by the law and which are absolute. WFP should only be used to treat a disease in situations of infertility and / or sterility, as provided for in Article 4,, and the purposes of these techniques should therefore, in our view, serve its own axiomatic principle: the dignity of life that will arise and the best interest of these children. With regard to these matters, the PSD, a personalist and humanist charisan party, in its plurality of views, will always find its common pillar in the primacy and safeguarding of human life. We understand that, in the face of sensitivity, complexity, but above all, the importance they have in the future of the Portuguese country and families (what for us today is the concept of family) should continue to follow closely the reflection of this topic in Portuguese society. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not because these issues are systematically and repeatedly used as a political strategy that they will be more or less appropriately treated. It is because, in this bench, we express ourselves freely—we are not better or worse than others—and because this is a matter that has a background, has a dimension and convenes us, that we will vote by expressing our own opinions. That is what intimates us the supreme value of human dignity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u254	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of this debate is delicate, complex, covering at least areas of ethics, science and law. It is a controversial debate that we do in respect for diversity of opinion and without moral judgment. This is the production of assisted medicinal products. In our perspective and in that of many experts, who duly substantiate it, it is a subsidiary therapeutic technique of procreation and not an alternative technique. There are legitimate personal aspirations at stake to which we are not, in any way, indifferent, and issues of interest to a new being are also at stake — the most fragile and vulnerable in this process — interest that must be properly guarded. It understands the CDS-PP that the exercise of individual autonomy and freedom should not be carried out in an absolute way and should always be harmonized with the good of third parties, with the common good, and meet the results of the practice of that same right. In our view, a balanced view of this issue causes us not to view WFP as a first-line technique or banalization and the imprecise contours that still persist in ethics and law make us maintain the option to maintain this technical advancement subordinated to the primacy of the dignity of all human beings, starting with the embryo. We are not outside this debate. We'll follow this up. As I said at the outset, and I would like to reiterate, we respect diversity of opinion, reaffirming our own. We will therefore vote against the drafts under discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u256	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Green Group, to leave three brief notes on the projects under discussion. The first note I would like to leave is that the use of assisted medical procreation techniques, as has already been stated and is contained in the law, is linked to infertility or disease prevention and the Greens agree that this regime loses its subsidiary character and that it gains an alternative or complementary character. Therefore, we agree that the situations in which these assisted medical procreation techniques can be applied may be extended, not restricting them only to cases of disease. The second note concerns equality, and I will therefore make an observation on the beneficiaries. The current law restricts the use of LDCs techniques to married persons of different or de facto sex. The Greens agree that the beneficiaries, for example, should be extended to single, divorced, widowed women, who are not in a relationship, or to married women or actually married women, but of the same sex. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the third note I want to leave is also about equality. There are certain techniques that are available abroad and are not available in the country. I am not talking about the conception of the issue, but on another issue that concerns the following: who has the economic power to move abroad and use assisted reproductive techniques; who cannot, can and does not have children. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are certain issues that should make us reflect. We are talking here a lot about birth and I think there are certain issues that we must also begin to fit into the debate on birth. I shall finish by saying that the Greens voted in favour of the two projects in question. [[PSD and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u258	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the speeches of Mrs Guerra and Mrs Galriza Neto, who I have heard carefully, I would like to leave two notes to make a precision which I think is important in this debate. What we are discussing is only the amendment of Law No 32 / 2006 to define what is lawful to do in Portugal and what is not. It is not at least at this debate the discussion of who is who supports the costs inherent in the use of the techniques of WFP, which was mentioned by Mrs. Ángela Guerra. Access priority is not being defined even if it is being said that it is up to the SNS to assume responsibility in cases where infertility is not diagnosed. What is at stake is a different matter. It is that people who have the ability to travel to a private clinic, by chance, and perform the treatment right now cannot do so. The question is essentially this: the law prevents those who, wanting and having conditions to do so, from doing so in Portugal. As Mrs Heloísa Apolónia referred to, and well, whoever has economic conditions to do so can move to the neighbouring Spain, which is not a completely different reality from our own, is a neighbour of ours, who shares our values, which has our constitutional framework, and in which there are no limits and in which, as in most European countries, neither the civil state nor the sexual orientation represent an obstacle. I also wanted to make a precision that is important not to forget. Even in cases where there is a diagnosis of infertility, a single woman continues to be unable to have access to assisted medical procreation techniques, because effectively a judgment is made, which does not involve the legislator to make, on the conditions, the marital status and the family condition of a person to use assisted procreation techniques with a diagnosis of infertility. It is true that we propose more than this. We understand that another debate must be covered, and the issue of parenthood by same-sex couples is also provided for in this diploma. But this diploma proposes the elimination of discrimination and if, indeed, to solve a problem concerning infertility, there is availability, openness and recognition of a consensus area, please say, because we have the willingness to continue this debate in the specialty and to be able to deepen it. in this case, it is so flagrant the existence of discrimination, when we have in all the requirements fulfilled for access to the law, which we find intolerable to maintain the legislation in the current state in which we find it. We therefore call for a comprehensive debate, which is already taking place so that several hundred women, to solve the problem they face when they break the law, stop having to do so in another country and can do it in the security and tranquility of our borders. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u260	For a new intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u261	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: After hearing the speeches of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, first of all, that we have to regret, given what we have heard, that this step cannot be taken any longer. I would also like to question one aspect or another. If the problem of the criterion of infertility is the key issue, the basic question from which all conditions of access to the LDCs should start, I must conclude that the PSD, which emphasized this aspect, is available to remove discrimination from the law based on marriage must be heterosexual. We must conclude that, Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u263	If the question of infertility is central, then it must be applied to all women, married to another woman or married to a man. Otherwise, I am forced to conclude that the fundamental issue is not that, but that there is prejudice and discrimination based on sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u265	Mrs. Angela Guerra, allow the parties that brought this issue to debate, the Socialist Party and the Left Block, to resume a discussion recently held in Parliament when it was said that we wanted to « enter the window that did not enter the door». Mrs. Member, it was better not to talk about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u266	Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u267	Because the PSD closed the door. He did not enter, closed the door to the expectations of many couples in this country, in which the only way to carry out his project of having children was motherhood of substitution. The gentlemen have removed your own project! The recent discussion was this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u268	That's another matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u269	It is better not to mix matters, because there is no argument in this regard. The gentlemen have closed the door, removing your own project. They'll have to justify that. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying the following: it is not possible to say that these issues are not discussed and that we do not continue to say that we need to accompany them, that we need to have a deep debate and that we need to see the evolution, but the problem is that while we follow and see the evolution, there are people who are behind and to whom the law does not respond. If we keep these discriminations in the law, it's just moral damage that we do, nothing more. Mrs. Members, continue to reflect, that we will continue to fight for discrimination to depart from the law on LDCs. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-04.u270	As the Bureau no longer registers, our work today is thus completed. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow for 3 p.m., beginning the agenda with an up-to-date debate required by the PSD on single environmental licensing. Follow-up will be the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By strengthening primary health care in proximity to populations ( PCP ), 1111 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By strengthening and valuing health professionals in the National Health Service ( PCP ), 1242 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of the primary care network and the hiring of professionals required for the normal functioning of the National Health Service ( BE ), 1244 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthening of the National Health Service ( PS ) and 1241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen primary health care ( The Greens ). at a third point, we will appreciate draft resolution No 1189 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the use of registered mail in the calls of IEFP and ISS, IP to prevent the cutting of social benefits ( BE ). A fourth point follows with the discussion of draft resolution No 1240 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends support for the candidature of Madeira's leadership to the World Heritage Site ( The Greens ). Finally, petition No 415 / XII ( 3 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Submitted by Platform-Father Associations for Inclusion, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to allow the inclusion of all students with special educational needs ( NEE) and / or disabilities in the Portuguese educational system and the repeal of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012, with draft resolutions No 1233 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Implementation of the recommendations of the National Education Council on the legal framework for special education ( BE ), 1235 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — In defense of inclusive public school for all ( PCP ), 1237 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the revision of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 11 September, ensuring the continuity of the school course in secondary education for students with special educational needs ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1238 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 7 January, in particular with regard to the composition of classes, the distribution of the hourly burden between school and institution and the impact of its premises on the effective integration of pupils into post-school life ( PS ). See you tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 1 minute.]]
