ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authority agents please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no file today. In the meantime, there were two Mrs. Members to speak to the Bureau. Mr Nuno Magalhães, therefore, has the floor to speak to the Bureau, I assume that on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u2	Mr President, because it relates to the conduct of the work of the Assembly of the Republic. Yesterday, in the framework of the Conference of Leaders, Mr President proposed, and indeed the setting up of a working group, chaired by Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who was also present, in order to be able, following a letter sent by the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS, to assess the ways in which we could celebrate on 25 November, in particular the 40th anniversary of 25 November, an important date for the Portuguese, for all those in this House — and we are all, I believe — are in favour of freedom. It was a confirmed date of freedom that we gained on 25 April 1974. And it was the one that allowed the democratic legitimacy that allows us all to be here to prevail over revolutionary legitimacy. And it was also that date that allowed Portugal today to be a plural, democratic and European country, which, I believe, we all pride ourselves too. Now, Mr President, before the decision of Mr Exa, to which, of course, we suddenly announced, and before the speedy marking of the meeting by Vice-President Jorge Lacão, surprisingly or not, PCP, BE and the Greens did not appear, did not justify non-appearance, deserted and fled this meeting. [[Rice from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] It is not surprising that this happens. But more surprising and perhaps bad sign, Mr President, is that the Socialist Party has not also appeared, nor has it been justified. Bad signal! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u3	In our view, this is a disauthorization, discrimination and, above all, an disrespect before you, the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the second figure of the State, which was who, in good time, and in such a way that it deserved the consent of the CDS and the PSD, suggested the establishment of this working group. Mr President, because I consider you to be unauthorized, who does not enormize and embarrass the Assembly of the Republic in the person of you Exa, I would like to ask you, in this question, what you want to do. We have already heard about ongoing political processes and I fear that, if we do not react in time, we can even say that we are facing a revolutionary process in progress. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u4	For the same purpose, Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u5	Mr President, I would also like to point out to you that, in the context of the institutional respect and the proper functioning of Parliament, why the Democratic Social Party has always adopted, today I also attended the preparatory meeting for the convening of the 25 November, a decision, moreover, not only of the Conference of Leaders, therefore of the parties who now consider their participation inappropriate, but also of the President, in particular in the establishment of this working group. In this regard, Mr President, let me tell you that I consider it a paradox to not appear at a meeting which resulted from a decision which, I believe, was consensual at the Leaders Conference, and above all, I would like to extend my solidarity to you in the face of the disrespect shown to you by these parliamentary groups. I must also say, Mr President, that I never thought in 2015 that I was 34 years old again attending the re-editation of the front of revolutionary unity. That the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, for ideological and we respect, do not want to evoke on November 25, we understand. But that the Socialist Party, a pillar party of the implementation of democracy in Portugal, a pillar party of the consolidation of democracy in Portugal, a central party in the history of 25 November, in Portugal, is ideologically driven by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left, this situation, Mr. President, if I allow myself, not only to shame democracy as the founders of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, I would like to address to you a very special word and ask you to take steps and make your decision to ensure that, even today, due to respect for the good functioning of the institutions, for the good name of Parliament and for the dignity of democracy, the working group for the recall of 25 November can meet. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u6	Mr Carlos César spoke to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u7	Mr President, I would also like to point out that there are no precedents for commemorating these events in this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And I apologize for saying that November 25 was much more civilized than those absurd reactions than VV. Ex. They're having it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u8	I'm asking the ladies. Members to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u9	Mr President, my appeal is to transmit to you that the Socialist Party in this Parliament will not be complicit in free, useless and almost childish exercises on events of national relevance. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We all know the position that each party has on these and other events. And the exceptionality that the PSD and the CDS intend to confer on this matter is all but a worthy commemoration and all other an extrapolation, which aims, uniquely and exclusively, at the political game. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is what the Social Democratic Party and the CDS want in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot contemporate with the idea of turning Parliament into a stage of political and political play. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would also like to tell the PSD Member Sérgio Azevedo that we, the Socialist Party, are not tied to anyone,... [[Aren't they?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u10	... nor the PCP, nor the Left Block, nor the Green One. And much less we are chained to whom, at that time, did much less for freedom than did the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u11	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u12	Mr Luís Montenegro, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u13	Mr President, it is also for an appeal to the Bureau in the following sense: Mr Carlos César has just said an enormous thing that cannot be made clear. He said that on 25 November, the behaviour of the respective protagonists was much more civilized than the absurd reactions of the Members to what he was saying. I want to tell you, Mr. Carlos César, that I reject your statements at all. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And for a number of reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u14	Mr Luís Montenegro, you are not making an appeal to the Bureau, but giving a reply to Mr Carlos César. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u15	If Mr President gives me the opportunity, I can explain why this is an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u16	No, sir. I give you the opportunity to conclude your request to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u17	Mr President, I ask you to allow me to explain to the Bureau why I use the figure of the inquiry. It was to the Bureau that was competing to say this to Mr. Carlos César. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in the parliamentary debates, Mr President, there is a lot of excitement. In fact, we must respect the speaker, but we must also respect the sides of the bench. And there are no innocents here: in all benches, when a speaker is in the use of the word, there are reactions, Mr. Carlos César. And the reactions of PSD board members are no different...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u18	I ask you to conclude your request to the Bureau, which is not being made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u19	... of the reactions of the members of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u20	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u21	We all need to understand this, Mr President. And Mr President, you have to have a hand in what this kind of consideration is. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u22	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u23	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u24	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau to clarify Mr Carlos César and make a request to you. The clarification is as follows: Mr. Carlos César, perhaps because he has been in other positions elsewhere, invokes the absence of precedents. Because these events take place on November 25th. And on 25 November, as Mr President and the older Members of this House well know, Parliament is usually in the State budget work — this is first and foremost an explanation for the proper conduct of the work. Secondly, it is not true that no proposals have been made to commemorate the dates of the 10. o, 20. o or 30. the anniversary. Proposals have been made, particularly by this bench, and have been rejected by the majority of the House, which we respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u25	Do it in Caldas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u26	Do you in North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u27	Mr. President, what I ask you to do is take a position...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u28	We're going to the Bureau, aren't we, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u29	Yes, yes, Mr. President. What I ask you, Mr President, is that you take a very clear position in the light of the fact that we have a parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party who is adjective of your decision, of the Conference of Leaders, and on your proposal, of the setting up of a working group, of political toys. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr President, I did not vote in your Ex.A., but I do not admit that no Member of this House qualifies a decision by you, elected either correctly or badly, and against my vote, of political play. It was precisely in the name of that that that those who did on 25 November fought, and fought at great cost, and that is what we want to recall. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] She's not a political player! It is a decision by you, Ex.a, that we have complied with, that Mr. Vice-President Jorge Lacão has met, on time and by time, and that Mr. Carlos César has qualified as a political player. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Your decision, Mr President — and I ask for your opinion on this — may merit our agreement or our disagreement, our approval or our rejection, but it will never be a political player.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u30	Have a party at Caldas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u31	That was also the case on 25 November. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to explain everything that has happened on the question of 'commoration' — between quotes — or the date of 25 November. [[Between quotes?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u33	Yes, between quotes, because it was said in the PSD and CDS letter, but no one referred to these terms. What has happened was that, for a long time, three or four weeks ago, Mr Nuno Magalhães said that he was going to hand the President of the House of the Republic a proposal for a celebration — without a quotation — on 25 November. It turns out you didn't do it for a long time. All the agendas were allowed to be passed at the Conference of Leaders, including on 25 November, without anything having happened, and yesterday on the eve of the Conference of Leaders, I received a letter signed by Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mr Luís Montenegro, on behalf of the CDS and the PSD, respectively, saying that the agenda was already confirmed, but that, in addition, one could mark the date of 25 November and — I do not remember exactly what the terms were, but I think they were — they even proposed that a conference or a debate be held. Yesterday, at the Leaders' Conference, what I did—and it is a fact, that was agreed by all the boards... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u34	What I have done — and which has been agreed by all sides — was to ask Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who, with all his generosity accepted, chaired a working group which, by the end of the Friday session, could present to the President of the Assembly proposals on what should be done. The Assembly of the Republic, as you have said, is a body of great importance in the democratic life and in the Portuguese state and, in six days, it cannot prepare anything for it, unless it gives it due importance. Therefore, the arbitration between what could be done and what was in the spirit of the Members who requested it would have to be done in this working group. I was informed today, during the morning, that several parliamentary groups—it was the case of Deputies João Oliveira and Carlos César—they would not send any representatives to this meeting, which I regretted, because if they had done so yesterday, another method would have been chosen to respond to the request of the PSD and the CDS. Anyway, as the deadline only ends tomorrow, he proposed that we not move forward in this debate in plenary because we are doing something that has not been asked by anyone, which is to discuss in plenary on 25 November 1975, 40 years later. If they wanted to do so, they could have scheduled this discussion for that day. If Vice-President Jorge Lacão did not wish to speak, he would continue with the next item on the agenda and would wait until tomorrow for the written report — which is how these things are done — drawn up by the Vice-President who was responsible for the development of these hard-to-see work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u35	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u36	I believe that it will be to respond to something that has been said about your intervention and not about the conduct of your work. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u37	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to clarify my understanding. I believe that I have heard what Mr. President of the House has said, that is, the proposal for a commemoration of 25 November was announced by Mr. Nuno Magalhães in the Conference of Leaders, having been sent in a letter stamped by the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP. That is exactly what I referred to as an act of political play.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u38	I think it's all clear. Until tomorrow at lunch I look forward to a written report on this issue by Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who had the kindness to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u39	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u40	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u41	Mr President, if I agree that I am still speaking on the subject under consideration, so that there is no doubt about it in any Member of the House, without prejudice to officially giving the information due to Mr. President, it is up to me to register that at the meeting of the working group Mr. Sérgio Azevedo, representing the PSD, and Mr. Nuno Magalhães, representing the CDS-PP, having been informed by the other parliamentary groups, through the office of Mr. President, that they would not attend the meeting. In essence, that will be the information I will give to Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u42	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u43	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u44	Mr President, I would like to have the same treatment as you are addressing the other members of this House. This on one side. On the other hand, by also calling on the Bureau, I would like to ask for equal treatment for all parliamentary seats. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u45	Mrs. Member, since the first day of my election, that's what I'm doing. Thank you for strengthening him! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u46	I don't think so, I don't think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u47	Mrs. Members, we come to the first item on the agenda, which is part of the debate on draft resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the statement of Portugal's main European commitments ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Mr Luís Montenegro speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: in the last four years, Portugal has faced and overcome major challenges — it has asked for external aid, has met a very demanding Memorandum of Understanding and has regained financial autonomy, has returned to the markets and is financed - today at the lowest interest rate of all time; it has emerged from the economic recession and has begun a cycle of growth of the economy that can be sustained; it has reversed the growth cycle of unemployment, which has lasted for more than a decade, and it has recorded, almost three years, a path of falling unemployment; it has achieved external surpluses and has strengthened the growth of exports, which today represent about 43 % of gross domestic product. All these challenges were overcome in the context of Europe's economic definition and the sovereign debt crisis, which led to the reform of Europe's economic and financial governance rules. Portugal, one of the countries most vulnerable to the crisis, has gained credibility and confidence in this period. This credibility and confidence are crucial for the financing of the State and the economy, are decisive for the financial health of the State which guarantees the resources that can safeguard the social state, are crucial to attract investment, to add competitiveness, to enable businesses, to conquer markets and export, to create and maintain many jobs. However, in the current Portuguese political situation, aggravated by the unpublished decision of all opposition parties who lost the elections for the first time if they had joined and rejected the Government's programme out of the elections, even before it began to be executed, the Assembly of the Republic has the special and irrevocable responsibility to give the world and Europe a word of tranquility, a word of commitment and responsibility. This word is simple, but it is also essential to guarantee and preserve Portugal's credibility and trust. Without subterfuges, without rhetorical malabarism, what does this motion for a resolution ask Members to do: are they, firstly, still engaged in the full participation of Portugal in the European Union and the euro area? Secondly, are they still or are they not committed to the implementation of the banking union that they have claimed and in which we all participate actively? The Portuguese Government, some Members, in particular the Member of the European Parliament Elisa Ferreira, who was fundamental to the final formulation of the rules of banking union, continue or are not committed to pursuing them? Thirdly, are they still or are they not committed to implementing the Budget Treaty and the other European budgetary surveillance rules? Fourthly, do you or do you not continue to reject unilateral proposals for restructuring national public debts in any Member State of the European Union? What you are asked to do is to answer these questions without a tibiass. If they do so positively, perhaps we can contribute, if not guarantee, to credibility and confidence in the Portuguese State. With this, we can have more economy, we can have more employment, we can have more financial health in the state and we can safeguard the social state. If you do not, if you reject the terms of this resolution, you will take it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, responsibility for uncertainty and, in the future, for the consequences that arise there. This is the simple exercise for which we challenge all banks and all Members. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u49	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa and Mr Margarida Marques signed for clarification. In the meantime, Mr Luís Montenegro informed the Bureau that he intends to respond together. Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u50	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the PSD has scheduled this debate to make an absolute revelation: that the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have different views on European construction. I ask everyone to contain your surprise. I'm in a position to confirm the news. Even there were rumors about it some time ago and in the last election campaign that was what you heard! [[BE's laughs.]] The scheduling of this debate is the first of several political "numbers" with which the right is trying to fill this time that wastes the country. But the real difficulty in this debate is at the right hand, because there are two visions that clash in this political situation about the European integration of Portugal. One is that the right-wing government has shown and put into practice in the last four years; a government that wanted to go beyond the subjugated, obedient troika which thanked every punishment that the country has received from Brussels and Berlin. The other view is that it opens up with the possibility that Brussels will come to know a government which is and which is quite simply behaves like the Portuguese Government, a government which is recognized in the Constitution of the Republic, which recognises the social contract it establishes and which is struggling for the fulfilment of that commitment that the country has towards its population. Soon, we will have — and no one believes that it can be otherwise — a government linked to a programme for the recovery of wages, pensions and that it will not return to the path of privatization in the country. There can be — and certainly — different expectations even in these benches about the reception that such a government can have with the European institutions. But, in this debate, it is the right thing to answer about its difference. In Brussels, Portugal will be represented by a government committed to the end of the impoverishment cycle, with the replacement of labour income and pensions. They must respond: when this government faces European pressures, when it manifests the 'austerity' obsession of conservative governments against Portugal at the time when we will find you? in the role of complaints, how did Mr. Paulo Rangel in the European Parliament today draw attention to the dangers that may represent the new parliamentary majority?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u52	This European debate began today. Are we going to see you on the side of the resolution of the social emergency or on the side of the pressure against the country, on the side of blackmail against Portugal, and on the side of European authoritarianism? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u53	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u54	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the draft resolution that is being discussed shows a reduced vision of European commitments and treaties. It is a reduced vision in policies and in the method or in the absence of it. With regard to policies, the former Government sought to get used to them, but we did not resign. We will fulfill European commitments, but not as you did. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u55	The commitments contained in this draft resolution are undoubtedly important in the European construction process. But the question that I am asking is: why are these commitments only? We are surprised that the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups do not care about the impact of policies and, above all, the impact of these policies, which you have chosen to be part of this draft resolution. The PSD and CDS are not concerned when the impact of policies does not respect other principles and commitments determined by the treaties. I quote the example of the social rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, an integral part of the Treaty of Lisbon, with the "outing out" of the United Kingdom and Poland, but not Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u57	in your list of commitments, they have forgotten principles and commitments as defined in Article 4 ( 3 ). the Treaty on European Union, such as combating social exclusion, promoting social protection, solidarity between generations, economic, social and territorial cohesion. These are principles and commitments of the European Union. Mr Luís Montenegro, it is strange that you have only looked at paragraph 4 of the same article. That principle is that « the Union establishes an economic and monetary union whose currency is the euro » is part of the same article on the principles I have just set out. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u58	By valuing one point, forgetting another point in the same article, it is clear that this is not a formal issue, but a political issue. This is a political choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u59	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u60	I'm done now, Mr. President. As for the method, Mr. Luís Montenegro, the PS and a PS government will respect European commitments, but they will know, within the framework of the flexibility given by the Treaties, the regulations and procedures, and I use the list contained in your draft resolution, of the Economic and Monetary Union, of the Stability and Growth Pact, of the European Semester, of the Investment Plan for Europe, to affirm and negotiate Portugal's interests in the European Union. This draft resolution reaffirms commitments, but nothing says about the way and method of dealing with them. And the way you have dealt with them, as a government, can only leave us with concerns. You have fallen — and I shall finish, Mr President — in the same mistake that the European Union itself initially fell. The European Union initially devalued the social dimension in crisis-fighting strategies, but realized, in the medium term, that the social dimension needed to be valued in the fight against the crisis. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand yet! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u61	Mrs Margarida Marques, I was a little more flexible with the question of time because it is being discounted in the Socialist Party's global time and, therefore, I can have this permission. To reply, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u62	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa and Mrs Margarida Marques, thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr Jorge Costa said that this draft resolution is basically a political game. Let me tell you that it is to laugh at you to come to this debate to say that what is at stake is a political game, that the affirmation of the main political commitments of the Portuguese State before the European Union is a political game. It is to laugh when we are faced with a circumstance in which the political game between the opposition parties, that, yes, is that it really challenges the fulfilment of the main obligations of the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u63	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u64	Political play was the one which Mr has confirmed, in fact, saying - and I confirm - without surprise. It is that the Left Block maintains a completely different position from that of the Socialist Party. Therefore, by returning to the political game, I will return the matter to you. Mr. Deputy asked where will the PSD be if a hypothetical government led by the Socialist Party has to go to Europe to negotiate and whether we are going to sideline or support the positions of a hypothetical government of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! Mr President, if there has been a government led by the Socialist Party following the last legislative elections, those who have to support are those who have been negotiating bilateral agreements with the Socialist Party and who have jointly declared here the overthrow of the Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is on you and your party, Mr Jorge Costa, on the CFP, on the Greens and on the NAP that is responsible for politically supporting the government and all its position even in European matters. But it is clear that, judging by the sample which you have pointed out here, it is even a very unstable, very inconsistent solution and, I would say, inconsequential. It can only be inconsequential! That is at least our vision, Mr President. Mrs Margarida Marques raised questions that could complement our draft resolution. I have finally interpreted your question as a concordance with the points contained in this draft resolution. It would be good if the Socialist Party could vote in favour of this draft resolution and perhaps reserve to its own initiative, in the future, the presentation of the omissions it has detected in it. We will be here to hold this debate with you. But what is important today is to know what the Socialist Party thinks about what is fundamental in Portugal's strategic options to safeguard our economy and its growth, maintenance and job creation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u65	Mr Vitalino Canas, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no bad times to reaffirm adherence and fidelity to values and commitments, particularly when it comes to values and commitments inherent in European construction. The PS will never miss an opportunity to reiterate what no one is unaware of: we are the party that, at the most important moments of European construction, has always been on the front line since the accession of Portugal. It is not legitimate to doubt, by its history and practice, the position of the Socialist Party in relation to the past and the future of European construction, the draft resolution which is under discussion, namely, is above all an opportunity for the PSD and the CDS. It is an opportunity to announce that they renounce alignment by a radical and financial vision, which has presided over the European policy over the past four years with significant damage to the fundamental values of the European project and national interest; and it is an opportunity to reaffirm their loyalty to this project and its resulting commitments. That reaffirmation is necessary. the next few days, if Portugal is mentioned in the Brussels corridors and is publicly criticised is the fact that the PSD Government and the CDS have not fulfilled the commitments inherent in the European Semester, presenting the general lines of a State budget within the time limit set by those rules. Because of the government's deliberate attempt to hide the intentions for 2016 (and when we see the monumental stagnation mounted around the return of the extraordinary contribution, we understand why... ), Portugal is at risk of being punished and may even put at risk the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. Moreover, the reaffirmation of fidelity to European commitments is required because statements by the leaders of the PSD and the CDS-PP have succeeded, and even now confirmed by Mr Luís Montenegro, who, in their ambiguity and even primacy, suggest that if there is no government of them, they will be against everything that comes from another government. It is understood that even what is intended to fulfill European commitments will not have their consent or participation. Even when he was in opposition, the Socialist Party never failed to contribute to the full fulfilment of European commitments and even to support its developments, as happened to the budget treaty. Apparently this is not the PSD and CDS stance. For PSD and CDS, fidelity to Europe varies depending on what government there is. This, if not changed, will clearly set aside these parties from the European route which Portugal has followed. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS today have a sovereign opportunity, which has already begun to be lost in the light of what Mr Luís Montenegro said to rectify this position taken by your leaders during the discussion of the Government programme. For the sake of Portugal's image in the European Union, they take advantage of it and make it clear that they will continue to vote for Europe regardless of the country's government. This debate could also be a good opportunity to correct an insufficient, reductionist and distorted view that the parties on the right of this Chamber have of European construction. The draft resolution reflects this view, from the outset because it completely forgets the fundamental commitments that have kept Europe united over the years, despite crises, strikes, difficulties and changes in political winds. How can a project on European commitments not contain a single word — I stress, one word — on commitments of solidarity, cohesion and building an area of peace, security and justice? What the draft resolution notes is that its authors see Europe as a stage in which only monetary, financial and economic mechanisms are relevant. Anyone who reads the text is in the grave sense that Europe is exhausted from the Budget Treaty, the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Semester and a little more, as has also been mentioned by my comrade Margarida Marques. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the European project is much more than that. The Socialist Party could never resign itself to a vision so reductive and so poor in Europe. The draft resolution also omits important vectors of the European compromise in its current configuration; nothing says about social Europe and its principles, which are fundamental pillars of European construction; it fails to say that today it is officially accepted that the implementation of the budget treaty is done in accordance with an intelligent reading, which has a very precise meaning, as Commissioner Moscovici has still pointed out today; he disregards that there is a commitment in favour of the launch of growth and job creation policies, well expressed in the so-called 'Junker Plan' and not even deserved a reference; he is also omitted in relation to the vital need to continue to improve mechanisms that allow the reduction of asymmetries resulting from an incomplete architecture of Economic and Monetary Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u68	If time allowed, Mr President, many other omissions, inadequacies and even shortcomings could be pointed out. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in view of this, as is traditional in this House when European issues are involved, the Socialist Party invited the PSD to work towards incorporating amendments that would mitigate some of these shortcomings and omissions of the draft resolution, but it completely refused any possibility of understanding. This reinforces the idea that, with this draft resolution, it is not really intended to reaffirm a European consensus, even in its minimal and increasingly distant expression, as it is visible in the radical position on the right. This draft resolution is simply the instrument with which the parties that joined the FAP intended to show in vain that the PS has deviated from the usual European route.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u69	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u70	However, as our people say — and I am ending up, Mr President — the PSD and the CDS "have been looking for wool and have gone out of tusquiats" because the content of this draft resolution and the practice of the two parties in recent times only reinforce doubts about their understanding and adherence to the European project, as it is effectively. It was you who, on this occasion, should demonstrate that the European project is an ideal for all occasions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u71	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u72	... and not a circumstantial means of obtaining minor political effects. And in that, I'm sorry to say, they failed dramatically. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u73	Mr Miguel Morgado, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Vitalino Canas...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u75	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but Mr Vitalino Canas has no time to answer. I don't know if the PSD gives you some time? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u76	So, Mr. Miguel Morgado, please ask the question, which will stay in the air...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u77	You will be aware of all of us. Members, Mr. President. I would like to address Mr Vitalino Canas, who said that the PSD and the CDS would be losing an opportunity here, which we do not think so, because this is an opportunity for clarification which, in the meantime, has become an urgent need for clarification and, frankly, after hearing Mr Vitalino Canas's speech, I regret to see that his speech has served more to obscure and less to clarify. That moment of clarification, for us, is urgent, not only because of our European partners or because of the external confidence that our state and our economy depend on, but because, first and foremost, the Portuguese have the right to know what they can count on. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u78	We live days when all kinds of interpretations of the election results of October 4 were offered. However, there is an interpretation that no one can dispute: more than 70% of the Portuguese voters have chosen to pursue the European road and voted against ruin with Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u80	And these Portuguese, all Portuguese, have the right to know what all political parties can count on, particularly the PS. Just one more note: this clarification is not compatible with empty proclamations. Linking to European commitments, to these concrete ones we have appointed here and to others, depends on practice, they are not rhetorical. So the question that I would have reserved for Mr Vitalino Canas, if he had time to answer, is very simple: in the concrete choices, in the political decisions to which the PS will be called to take, in opposition or in a hypothetical government, the priority that the PS will give to the fulfilment of European commitments, or will it, on the other hand, remain tied to the positions of the PCP and the Left Block? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u81	Mr. Miguel Morgado, as Mr. Vitalino Canas has no time to answer, what he did was an intervention, to discount in PSD time. On behalf of the Government, you have the floor for an intervention, the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u82	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your compliments and greeting all Members and all Members. Members who serve in this Parliament. It will not be the anomalous circumstances of the present moment of our political life that will keep the Government from fulfilling its duties in this House and from affirming, where necessary, the fundamental options of the country and democracy. No one should be surprised, therefore, that the Government is taking part in a debate aimed at reaffirming Portugal's European commitments when it attaches importance and modernity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am part of the XX Constitutional Government and take on continuity: from the first minute of the history of democratic governments, from our request for accession to the then European Economic Community or, as it was known, the EEC that the European commitments define the democracy that we are and even more the democracy we want to be. Subsequent governments, integrated by PS, PSD and CDS, have always responded in this House, with clarity and consistency, to the defence and deepening of these commitments. In order not to lose political memory, it must be remembered that Portugal's European choice was a choice, not an inevitable one. And it's still a choice, not an inevitability. It was a choice of a model of political organization and society based on the rule of law, political and economic freedoms, pluralist democracy, the social market economy and also on the unqualified western alignment — I repeat, without reservations. It was a choice of this model, it was a choice of these principles. When we talk about European commitments, we do not only have in mind the treaties to which those commitments were made. Yes, we are talking about the fundamental options of our democracy. We therefore speak of this European option, which was indeed a choice. And, as a logical consequence of this choice, it was also a refusal. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the refusal of political experiences that subaltern those essential values, the refusal of isolation, the refusal of tactical complicity, usually, or, being more precise in our case, the refusal of third-worldism, which some have, as they have always had and unfortunately, will maintain and maintain as a priority alternative. Let no one doubt that the European option has prevented Portugal from turning, in the context of the 70s and 80s of the last century, into an internationally agnostic and disaligned democracy. Just as it prevents, in the middle of the 21st century, what would represent today a significant disalignment, a new departure, a harmful absence of the communities of political and economic values, where we want to be inserted, where most Portuguese want to be inserted. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Union once stated Francisco Sá Carneiro that it would be, and I quote, « a national project and not a partisan position ». It will be otherwise and in the light of the times we live in, that no party position could weaken what is, always, a national project. 30 years ago, I repeat, 30 years ago, in this House, when I close the historical debate that preceded accession, Mário Soares said, and I quote again: « Portugal's integration into the EEC, because it represents a historical turning point in the country's life, should be the subject of the unanimous vote of this House, like what happened in our neighbouring Spain ». Another way, it will be said that the European option, as a national project and as an inter-party project, would always depend on the unequivocal and free support of political forces, the consensus that they were capable of, the stability and reliability of their decisions. Only in this way would the country appear united and committed to its realization. This is because the European option was a choice, it was also a choice of those who chose it, of the parties who knew how to combine to embrace it and defend it, as evidenced by a history of votes in favour of all the European treaties, as well as the conscious accession of the Portuguese, who have over time kept the rare wisdom of not allowing this option to fall prey to the illusions of radicalism and political sectarianism. I do not intend to say that Portugal's European option is at risk today. The Portuguese would never allow it. But I want to say that the freedom and clarity that led the main political forces, for 30 years, to subscribe and develop the European project and its developments are not the same as those we know and used to be safe in 2015. In the face of past statements by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and a good number of his present companions, in the face of the unusual dependence on which he placed himself with parties who have declared as strategic objective the reversal of our European commitments, there are reasons to remain to doubt the stability of these commitments and to distrust what may come there. All of a sudden, the third-worldist shadows, covered by a "syrist" rhetoric of "insubmission" to the institutions, which the responsible and moderate European parties have always distanced themselves. The price to be paid will be high. It will be paid in trust. First of all, the confidence of Portuguese, families and businesses. It is essential that, with families and businesses, there is no re-establishment of distrust and disbelief; that we maintain with national and external investors the confidence that we once failed and that it cost so much to re-acquire, the confidence that we have re-acquired with our European partners. Because we have been at the forefront of institutional reforms within the European framework, thus reiterating our commitment to membership of the European Union and its most advanced core of integration, the euro area. Because we have ratified the budget treaty, with the support of more than 80% of the Members. Because we do not declare ourselves inspired when in Greece a party determined to reverse all European commitments came up to the government. on the contrary, we knew unequivocally that that would not, in any case, be our way. It is essential that this continues to be, without mental reservations. Let us not be deceived by those who dare to experience when in Europe international security again imposes upon States a basic form of realism, against new authoritarianism, against instability, against terrorism. Politicians cannot play the data, convinced that they will have the luck that others have missed. They must, above all, preserve the commitments they have been able to raise. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what a governmentman believes he should tell you at this time, not saying more than other rulers have already stated in the past, recently or remotely, only in order to express the conviction that on this subject — the European commitments of Portugal — there can be no misconceptions, there can be no doubt, there can be no adventures. These commitments are our present and future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u83	Having no requests for clarification, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on Europe and the European project is always relevant, but it must be a serious and critical debate, which is not proposed today by the PSD and the CDS. The project before us does not bring anything new, does not respond to any ongoing debate in Europe at this time and does not even want to discuss Europe itself. It serves only and only for the political game marked by the despair of the PSD and CDS. It is a kind of renewal of votes for photography, which will not be for love but only for political convenience. This is the proposal and the debate of the same PSDs and CDSs who for four years have been subservient to the orders of Merkel, of those who think that Europe of austerity cannot change a single comma, that European rules are recorded on the rock and that cuts are the only objective of public policies. And it is because of this blind follow-up that the PSD and the CDS present us with a project without criticism to the bureaucracy of the European Union, to the degradation of democracy, to the lack of popular participation and to the proliferation of decision-making spaces that run away from scrutiny. There is even criticism of Europe which is closed to walls, which denies fundamental values, such as solidarity between peoples, or which shuts down and allows the extreme right-wing agenda of several European governments. The Left Block has no realist vision of Europe, nor do we give up, as convinced Europeanists we are, to fight for a Europe worth fighting, which does not say that banks are more important than people, that it unites in solidarity between peoples and in the concrete improvement of people's lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Today's Europe is fragmented. This is the Europe of Merkel and Schäuble, Juncker and Dijsselbloem. Europe in which there are countries of first and second countries. The first countries shape the rules at their disposal, but also violate them when and because they want them; the second countries are always obedient, always subservient, to whom the rules are draconian. This is what we see happening with the budget treaty. It is not new that the Left Block has always opposed this Treaty. It is a treaty that has not been referred to by the people, nor has its discussion existed in the public sphere, no matter how much more attempts were made, and they have been. The budgetary treaty is thus an instrument of imposition and obligation on the countries of Europe, obliging them to meet targets for the deficit and for the debt that are virtually impossible to fulfil. And in the name of these goals are the people subject to heavy austerity plans, as we have seen, causing unemployment, cutting work incomes, cutting pensions, destruction of the National Health and Education Service, complete abandonment of the social state. PSD and CDS do not question the budget treaty, because this is your best excuse for your real political agenda and who dare to question a comma that is the document. however, it is appropriate to revive the memory of the PSD and the CDS on positions, not as far as this, of some of its leaders: Manuela Ferreira Leite said that the requirements of the budget treaty are inexhaustible and that, if they are concrete, they will be "very painful". She said: « There is no budgetary policy that withstands such a budget restriction ». What a daring, really! But also Bagão Félix, former Minister of Finance, said : « The budget treaty has been created so as not to be fulfilled ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS are the reference figures of your political area that made these statements. What are they telling them? Oh, my God! Or, more simply, what do they tell people? If a government wants to change the policy of impoverishment in Europe, which side will it be on? on the side of Ferreira Leite and Bagão Félix, who say that the budget treaty is irresponsible? Or on Merkel's side that says it's to meet, whatever it takes? This is the real question that PSD and CDS should answer and do not. We already know the curriculum of the defenders of the budget treaty: « cost what it costs ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u86	while populations are sacrificed, banks are saved, debt fires, people's lives are destroyed and the social contract is broken. And everything to reach 2015 and Portugal has only the fourth highest OECD debt, a debt that currently exceeds 130 % of GDP more than four years ago. And if we really want to deepen the debate on Europe, we must talk about their mistakes, learn from them and try to change. Let's remember again Ferreira Milk and Bagon Félix. These unsuspecting voices have defended a restructuring of debt within the European framework. Not only them but also Freitas do Amaral or João Cravinho, or have we forgotten the Manifesto of the 70s? from left to right, many joined around a position that could start a serious discussion on the possibility of debt restructuring, an essential pillar for economic growth. It is not therefore serious to promote a debate on Europe, which refuses to discuss Europe, but it has always been the right objective. on another subject, the seriousness of the refugee situation has exposed the European inability to act as a whole when the crisis is humanitarian. The xenophobic and closed, violent positions of borders thus demonstrate and must combat this speech. It is indeed time to debate Europe, but seriously, in a responsible way, criticizing when it is necessary to criticize. It is necessary to break down the walls, also mental ones, which have been built. In conclusion, this was the contribution of the Left Block to this debate, a constructive contribution. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u87	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u88	I'm done now, Mr. President. on the side of the PSD and CDS nothing added to the known subservice. It is proposed to use European instruments to continue to attack people's rights, but they are essentially failing, which are the concrete alternative proposals. It is unfortunate, because this debate could have served for more than encouraging the party agenda of those who lost the elections. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u89	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u90	Mr. President and Mr. Members, PSDs and CDS have brought the debate, in the Assembly of the Republic, a meaningless initiative, because whether it is approved or rejected its result is the same — it is null. This is irrespective of the outcome of your vote, the draft resolution presented by PSD and CDS on the affirmation of the main European commitments will have no practical effect or impact on our reality. We are therefore in the face of a non-debate, a non-debate, the result of which will have no effect on the subjects which are the subject of discussion. PSD and CDS know that the initiative they have scheduled is not aimed at any objective in relation to the substance of the draft resolution. This initiative only has an opportunistic objective, which PSD and CDS recognize in the statements they have made in recent days. It is therefore important to denounce the real intentions that led PSD and CDS to schedule this demagogic and opportunistic debate. Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is clear that the purpose of the PSD and the CDS was not to raise a serious debate on matters relating to the European Union or to economic and monetary union, but rather, as they themselves publicly stated, to seek to identify contradictions between the positions that each political force has been affirming over time. on our part, we will not correspond to your intention. There are no contradictions to exploit, as was your wish, because no one has been obliged to change his position on each of the subjects that have identified in this debate. And so that there are no doubts, we reaffirm it again, the CFP maintains its positions on each of the issues contained in the draft resolution. The CFP did not abdicate, or abdicate, its political project for workers, the people and the country; the CFP did not abdicate, or abdicate, its analysis and political positions on the most varied subjects, including the issues addressed in this draft resolution. The CFP has not changed its analysis and reflection on the consequences of Portugal's accession to the EEC, the European Union, economic and monetary union, of the process that has developed in recent years and of its deeply negative economic, social, cultural and environmental impacts in our country. We maintain our appreciation of the process that has deepened in recent years with the imposition of a set of instruments at European Union level that constitute real constraints on the exercise of the right to development of countries, while removing huge portions of their national sovereignty and independence and we demand responsibility for PSD and CDS, so in the last four years they have done against the interests of the country. We maintain our appreciation of the process of deepening this path, with the decisive contribution of the PSD/CDS government that was defeated in the polls last October 4, which brought Portugal more poverty, more inequality, more dependence and greater fragility of our economy. We maintain our appreciation and demand responsibilities for the PSD and CDS, so in the last four years they have done more to deepen all these problems. It is the PSD and the CDS that have to explain today why, contrary to what had been promised, Portugal has not come closer to the living conditions of the most developed countries, and in reality there has been a tendency to withdraw, today being on the tail of the countries of the European Union in a significant set of indicators of economic and social development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u92	Mr. President and Mr. Members, none of this, the PSD and the CDS wanted to discuss seriously. They only wanted, desperately and opportunisticly, to find an exercise that would contribute to their rescue from the electoral defeat they suffered. What becomes relevant, after all, in this debate is the despair and disorientation that have settled in the PSD and CDS because they continue to refuse to accept this electoral defeat that they have suffered. The scheduling of this debate with no discussion is just that, an exercise of despair and opportunism to rescue PSD and CDS from the electoral defeat they have suffered and for this they will not count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u93	Defeat? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u94	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps it is worth focusing on the debate and explaining to those who are listening to us what we are discussing, because the last speeches on nothing have been on this very subject. What is at stake is simply a recommendation from the PSD and the CDS so that the Assembly of the Republic can reaffirm the national will to comply with international treaties and to implement Article 8. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, so mentioned by some and, by the way, very little practiced, and that says so, that the treaties are to be fulfilled. So, what are we here discussing? We are discussing a draft resolution in the sense that the Assembly of the Republic can reaffirm the national will committed to the full participation of Portugal in the European Union and, in particular, in the Economic and Monetary Union, it can reaffirm the compliance with the rules of the European Treaties that bind the Portuguese State to the common rules that proceed with it and that we voluntarily assume, as well as the inclusion of Portugal in the banking union, in the defence of the full implementation of that same union, envisaged and recognised by the national parliaments and by the Treaty of Lisbon, signed in Portugal in 2009 by the former Government of the Socialist Party, a treaty concluded, negotiated and well negotiated by Portuguese diplomacy. The draft resolution is also for the House to reaffirm and stress our link to the budget treaty, which until 4 October this year was covered by at least 80 % of the Members represented by their parties, we will see how they will vote, see as Friday, so it will be, or not, we will see and clarify whether or not Portugal remains on this stage. To conclude, the draft resolution is still in the direction of the Assembly to reaffirm the commitment of the Portuguese State to the fulfilment of the Stability and Growth Pact and to reject proposals for unilateral restructuring of the national public debts of the Member States of the European Union, as was done and happened, for example, in another Member State of the European Union, such as Greece, with the expected results. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer, or less, that is what is at stake. Do you agree, or not, and from your vote we can then draw conclusions, with the international commitments made by Portugal, with the treaties assumed by Portugal, within the framework of the budgetary treaty, of banking union, of non-restructuring debt, of the Stability Pact? It's as simple as this! Some will ask: « But if this already comes from Article 8. the, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which even motivated a constitutional review, what is the need of the coalition parties, PSD and CDS, to present a draft resolution, which ultimately compromises the Assembly of the Republic and the Government to comply with the Constitution? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u96	I'm looking forward to hearing that answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u97	Mr. João Oliveira wants to hear the answer, because I will give it. In fact, if until October 4, 2015, that was not at issue, and why was it not at issue? Because the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the CDS were in agreement with these matters, with the fulfilment of these Treaties, now it seems that, it is said, some papers have been signed that, all this is at stake. Walls of Berlin have been broken down! As I said here, and, yesterday, my colleague Telmo Correia will probably have dropped a supposed and imaginary Lisbon wall. Tradition is no longer what it was, conventions are worth what they are. Therefore, in the name of what is essential in democracy, clarity and transparency, in the context of this clarity and transparency, in the face of these supposed falls of walls, in the face of this supposed breakdown of traditions, conventions and even political convictions, because of what we have seen in recent days, in fact even today we have spoken of 25 November, the Portuguese demand, in our view, whether or not there is consensus on matters such as the European Union and the Treaties of the European Union, in particular the budgetary treaty, in which two thirds of the Portuguese voted. That's what's at stake. Dir-CL-me: none of this would be necessary before 4 October this year. Don't! In fact, perhaps it would not be necessary. So, Mr. President, what have you changed? I think it's very easy for the Portuguese to understand what's changed. What changed was the Socialist Party because it is not enough to proclaim itself as the most European party of all, as they like to say. Moreover, in this sense, and in front of the troika of left and left more to left that you intend to form, it does not cease to be interesting the silence of Dr. Mário Soares,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u98	... the so-called 'father' of Europeanism, which has taken us, and well, to the European Union. Don't stop being curious! But, in fact, Mr President and Mr. Members, what matters today is what it is important for those Portuguese who voted, particularly those two-thirds who believe in the European Union, to understand whether the two-thirds in which those who believe in the European Union voted, the two-thirds of this Parliament, continue to believe in the European Union and in the resulting treaties. That is clarity and transparency and that is essential to democracy! Mr President, Mr President, I would say that in some way the honourable Member will be over-exaggerating in some way. Well, I quote here the other two leaders of the troika, who announce themselves to the left and left more to the left, and even quite insinuously to other institutions, such as the President of the Republic. Mrs Catarina Martins says that, and I quote, 'the budget treaty is a fraud over democracy', 'the Portuguese citizens have the right to rule on their consequences through a referendum', represents a 'threat and a gigantic transfer of labour income to the capital', and I am therefore quoting her, Mrs Catarina Martins! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u99	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u100	... it is necessary to « disobey Europe » and « break with austerity policies ». Will the Socialist Party agree? I am not surprised by the part of you, Mrs Catarina Martins, that I am not surprised by the part of the Left Block, and it is consistent, moreover, I quoted it. What was important in this debate, not for the CDS or PSD but for the Portuguese, was whether or not the Socialist Party is in agreement that it is necessary to disobey Europe, in which it is necessary to denounce the « cheating» that is the budget treaty, the « blackmail» that constitutes the budget treaty. It is also necessary to know whether the Socialist Party agrees with what, for example, the Secretary-General of the CFP, Jerome de Sousa, said shortly, specifically in April this year, that it was the following: « The CFP proposes an alternative policy. We can no longer say the same as the PS, which has a drama : he is a prisoner of his signature of the attack pact, of the policy of the Stability and Growth Programme, of his identification..."—I stress — «...with the policies of the European Union. (...) We have a proposal for a break with this policy». This was said by Jerome de Sousa in April 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u101	Is that true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u102	It wasn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1976! It wasn't in old times, it was really this year. Will the Members of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group agree with these statements by the leaders of the parties with whom they intend to make a coalition? Oh, my God! Now that the "walls" have been demolished, has the overthrow of these "walls" been at this point? Oh, my God! Are we going to denounce these treaties or not? Are we, or are we not, in accordance with these treaties? It is a question that concerns not the PSD, not the CDS, but the Portuguese, the two-thirds of Portuguese who believe in Europe, the European Union, the budgetary treaty and European policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u103	That is why it is always extraordinary, Mr President and Mr. President and Mr. Members, who in view of this, Mr Vitalino Canas, on behalf of the Socialist Party, believe that it is a reduced vision of the European Union. Are the founding treaties of the European Union a reduced vision of the European Union? Oh, my God! What, then, is the position of the Socialist Party? We've been waiting! It was 10 minutes or, rather, 12 minutes and 11 seconds without the Member reaffirming the Socialist Party's commitment to this matter, without saying, near-whitely, that the Socialist Party was and will be on this. [[That's the first sentence!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u104	That is precisely what this debate is for! For those who question utility, there is no greater use in democracy than clarity and transparency, and that is why this debate is useful. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u105	Mrs. Members, having no further requests for a word on this point, I consider the debate of draft resolution No 2 / XIII to be completed ( 1 ). ( a). We move on to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.os 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the laws humiliating women who resort to IVG ( Revoking of Law No 134 / 2015, of 7 September, and of Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September ) ( BE), 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores respect for the dignity of Portuguese women and the safeguarding of their sexual and reproductive health by repealing Laws Nos 134 / 2015 and 136 / 2015, both of 7 September ( PS ), 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015, and reprises Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April ( PCP ) and 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revoking Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 in order to combat illegal abortion and to respect the dignity of women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy ( The Greens ). In order to present the initiatives under discussion, you will first use the floor for an intervention by Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the last legislature, then the right majority decided to make the amendment of legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy, hiding these changes in the idea that it was moving in moderate rates—about justice or unfairness of moderate rates will be discussed at another time. In fact, legislative amendments had nothing to do with moderate rates but, rather, with punishing, minimizing and conditioning women and their choices. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u107	So now, at the beginning of a new legislature, with a new majority, here I am presenting Bill No. 1 of this Legislation, which is a bill to redeem women's rights and, therefore, to rescue dignity. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] I know that much has been said about the changes that were made at the end of the previous Parliament, but I think it is good to explain them because I think that, in the confusion of so much of what has been said, perhaps, the exact meaning of each of the amendments has been lost, and it is seeing these changes that one perceives today the urgency of the repeals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u109	The first change was the introduction of moderate rates in family planning consultations, but only on a particular medical act and only on certain reasons for this medical act. In other words, what the right has decided is that from now on, a woman who decides to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy must say, in the health center's office, that she not only decided to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy as she decided to do so for a specific reason, because some reasons are exempt from rates and others are not. Since family planning consultations in which there is a moderate rate exemption, the right obliges each woman to decide to voluntarily interrupt the pregnancy to show her medical record, as does not occur in any other procedure. Now, from an administrative point of view, the woman is obliged to say what she has decided to do and why she has decided to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u110	What a fool! It's a total ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u111	Don't stay between her and her doctor—no! — it is the whole administrative system that is known about the reasons of the woman. It doesn't happen to any more citizens! There is, in this country, no medical act to which a man is subject that compels the world to reveal that act and its reasons. Therefore, this is a way of punishing women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy, especially those who decide to do so for a reason that is neither rape nor malformation of the fetus, or who decide not to reveal that reason, as if women were forced to tell the world the reason that leads them to a decision as complicated as that of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. That's why it's a punishment and it doesn't have to do with moderate rates. The second part of the amendments relates to the fact that women are given mandatory advice. Once again, there is no other example in Portuguese legislation in which someone is required to undergo a medical procedure that did not ask or a therapy that he did not wish, when he is in possession of all his faculties. It doesn't happen! There is no reason for a man in this country to be subjected to a procedure, to a follow-up, to a therapeutic form that he has not chosen. But to the right, women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy are smaller women. Or are women all smaller? Oh, my God! They are forced to have this follow-up, even if they don't want it. Well, the law has already provided for psychological and social follow-up to all women who wanted it, and yet, because women should be accompanied, if they want. The difference is in establishing, in the wake of everything that is freedom in this country, that a particular medical act cannot be refused, must be compulsory, and that women are obliged to him, whether they want or not. This is mending women! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u112	Thirdly, in the amendments made by the right, there is an unacceptable attempt to condition women's decisions, in the worst way, in the most hidden way. of the worst, of the unacceptable in democracy! What the right says is that women, when they decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy, have to announce to the world that they do so and their motives, because that is how they decide to pay, or not, moderate rate. These women are required to advise, which means that, in the smaller means, they do not have the minimum protection of confidentiality of their decisions, but health professionals who are conscientious objectors in relation to voluntary termination of pregnancy, i.e. those health professionals who refuse to participate in this medical act, who are against, regardless of the reasons of the specific case, are not obliged to say so. More: they can be part of the advisory groups, now mandatory. This means that a woman, in such a difficult situation, so complicated of her life, when she thinks and decides that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is the choice she has in front of her, when seeking advice, does not have clear people at her disposal. That is, the people with whom he actually speaks are not prepared to analyze that particular case, with that woman, or to help her,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...because, regardless of the specific case, they are people who argue that voluntary interruption of pregnancy can never happen. Therefore, this is not counseling, this is teaching women, it is limiting their ability, it is conditioning their choice. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] It's not admissible! It is not permissible for women to be forced to reveal everything — their reasons, the medical act to which they are subject — that nothing is respected and that there may be some who, hidden under the technical cover, have in fact an ideological agenda to impose on these women and withdraw the possibility of choice from them. That is why these amendments have to be repealed, and that is why this day is very important, because whoever believes in democracy as a whole believes in freedom throughout, of men and women. We cannot allow a law that punishes, diminishes and conditions women in their decisions. More: to repeal the right amendments is also the way to respect what was the democratic process in Portugal on this matter, the decision of the referendum, which made it possible for the voluntary interruption of legal pregnancy, which brought an end to the shame of women's judgments, which ended with the injuries and deaths of women due to illegal abortions, which reduced the number of abortions in Portugal and made us proud to be from countries where fewer women are faced with such a difficult choice and which, of course, no one will like to do. It is because women have the right to decide, because we respect what the country has decided, that today — today! — we must revoke the amendments to the right that offend all women. But I will say more: today is the day when we also begin to heal the fractures that the right would open in our society. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u113	The Bureau shall not record any requests for clarification to the speaker. Therefore, I give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, justice is being done again in this Parliament. We will repeal the shameful changes that were imposed, at the end of the last legislature, on a law that put an end to clandestine abortion, on a law that safeguards women's sexual and reproductive health. Today, it is the day of the revocation of these amendments, of minor laws that want to adulterate the meaning and value of a greater law, of a humanist law, the law of voluntary interruption of pregnancy. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We will once again affirm here the dignity of women and their freedom to decide without patriarchal guardianship, but also, as the law wanted it to happen, without State guardianship. Today, we again gave meaning to the sacrifice of so many and so many women who went through the corridors of clandestine abortion, paying many with their own lives and others with sexual and reproductive health that was irremediably affected. It is for women, it is for their rights, that today we are saying: enough! They wanted to pathologicalize women's free options. They wanted to manipulate and condition their self-determination, obliging them to false support they did not ask for. They wanted to deny them the right to free choice. This time they wanted the State to protect women in compulsory psychological and social follow-up, even when they did not want them, and they were entitled to a minority status that we refused.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u116	They wanted to remove IVG from maternal-child health, where it was, and well, to tax it with moderate rates and thus cut the freedom of choice. They wanted to impose mandatory consultations on compulsory family planning—compulsive, even if they did so binding on women. They were so far away in their willingness to manipulate that, not having the services the statements of conscientious objection — manifestly atrologizing to the Dentological Code — are diminished in their ability to organize an answer in good time. And, here, time counts: in the 10 weeks provided by law count every day, so any delay can be fatal in access to that answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u117	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u118	All, they did everything to stop one of the greatest civilizational advances that April gave us, a humanist law, a law that added health and dignity to the lives of women. Everything, they did everything to disturb a law that was being applied well, without any attacks, with visible results in terms of reducing the number of illegal abortions and repeated abortions. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] at the level of clandestine abortions, Portugal has a rate of 1 %, even behind Italy, France and Spain, signal that the law was working and being applied well. Today, the new majority of this Parliament says: no, no, no, no, the amendments that were intended to hinder the progress of civilization, the amendments that are an attack on human rights and on the dignity of women. They wanted to win, in secretary, what they had lost in the popular referendum consultation. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And to that, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is called disrespect for the referendum institute and for the free and democratic decisions of a people. These amendments constitute a limitation on freedom. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] And freedom, Mrs. Member, as Mandela said, will only be achieved when women are released from all oppression. Today, the popular referendum consultation is being held again, and April is being held again. We are once again fulfilling the international commitments made in Cairo, Vienna and Beijing, and claiming that women's rights constitute an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of Universal Human Rights. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Today, we have fulfilled what we said here last July: the first draft law of the Socialist Party of this legislature is being presented here to repeal the amendments to a law that would be against the sexual and reproductive health of women. We will repeal the changes in the shame and oppression of women. Women do not want privileges, they want rights, as Elina Guimarães said, many years ago. The dream of a more just and equal society will not remain—it won't even remain! — once again postponed. There are too many disappointments in history to add this one too. Always for women, always, and for their dignity. As Simone de Beauvoir says: "Let nothing limit us. Nothing defines us. Let Freedom be our own substance. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u119	The Bureau noted two requests for clarification, to be made by the Members. Members Ricardo Baptista Leite, PSD, and Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP. I ask Mrs Elza Pais how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u120	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u121	Therefore, I give the floor to Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, indeed known as the positions of the Communist Party and the Left Block against the existence of all and any moderate rates in the National Health Service, have decided to address the issues directly to the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u123	The PS has been in favour of the existence of moderate rates and has even gone beyond us in this matter in the past. [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u124	In the light of this past, your position today actually raises the deepest doubts, which I would like to see clarified in this House. I therefore ask you, Mrs Elza Pais: does the Socialist Party feel that the introduction of a moderate rate of 7, 75 € in nothing violates the basic principle of reference, which guarantees the access of all women to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, guaranteed in security by the State? Does the PS have the notion that all women who are underage or in a situation of economic insufficiency are exempt from paying any fee and that currently nearly 70% of our population are free to pay any moderate rate in the National Health Service? But there are still questions that go beyond the moderate rates. in this context, and in order to have a thorough explanation of your position, I ask you, Mrs Deputy, the following: does the Socialist Party consider that voluntary interruption of pregnancy should be considered as an integral component of public family planning policies? Is that your understanding? And does the Socialist Party believe that the act of a voluntary interruption of pregnancy can be likened to a full pregnancy, that is, to a pregnancy that is intended to reach its end and from which a child can be born? Does the Socialist Party not consider that the act of voluntary interruption of pregnancy can have serious psychological consequences for women and that the State should be obliged to ensure conditions of psychological monitoring? [[BE's protests.]] It seems to us fundamental questions which, in view of the bill they present today and which marks an important step backwards in this matter, require clear answers. But there are still advances from the social forum that are damaged, with your project. in this sense, I also ask you, Mrs Elza Pais, the following: do you not recognize the Socialist Party that the economic and social condition of women is often the predisposing factor that leads you to seek the voluntary interruption of pregnancy as a solution and that, in this sense, the State should ensure that social services are monitored by all these women? [[PS and BE protests.]] These questions, given the importance they have in all the lives that are at stake here, require a duly weighted response by the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u125	It is our conviction that, made this weighting, they will conclude that the laws currently in force ensure precisely compliance with that established in the 2007 referendum and safeguard the dignity of women. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u126	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u127	Mr President, I welcome you in this first speech, in this Parliament, as well as all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Elza Pais, as has already been said here by Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I think it would be expected that the Left Block, the CCP and the Greens would have as priority on their political agenda the presentation of diplomas as they did: the first bill to enter the Assembly of the Republic, in this legislature, was the Left Block, to revoke the application of moderate fees of 7, 75 € for voluntary termination of pregnancy, by option of the woman. [[PS, BE and The Greens Protests.]] I now address Mrs Elza Pais as a member of a party which is the main party of the opposition and which intends to make government. Mrs Deputy, I should like to tell you that this well demonstrates the hierarchy of priorities of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u128	The first two initiatives that you present in Parliament are to repeal a moderate rate of €7, €75,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] ... for the voluntary interruption of pregnancy at the request of the woman, and the replacement of the national holidays that had been suspended. This is your deity! You don't have a vision for the world! You guys have an O.R. book! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Socialist Party, which we used to know as a structural and fundamental party of Portugal, has these two priorities for the XIII Legislation. This will stay and history will judge-CL you! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u129	Mrs. Member! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u130	I would like to tell you that, in fact, we are amazed to see that you do not have measures as a priority for economic growth,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u131	... that have not put forward initiatives to reduce unemployment, to increase people's safety, for better quality, access and sustainability of the National Health Service, for more investment in research or European affairs, with all that is happening around us. Don't! It is the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, 7, 75 €, which concerns you! I would like to ask the following questions, Mrs Elza Pais: if you think this is a medical act like any other, then I would ask you to reply if you are willing to revoke the application of all moderate rates for other acts, such as cardiorespiratory resuscitation, mammograms, magnetic resonance imaging, X-ray...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u132	It would be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u133	... echocardiograms, application of plaster apparatus, among others, a list that I will have to distribute again and that are other medical acts to which moderate rates are applied. Answer me with a yes or a no, Mrs. If the voluntary interruption of pregnancy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u134	He still votes in favour of the revocation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u135	No, Mr President, we are not talking about persecution or the repeal of the law in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u136	Aren't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u137	This is a matter of balance and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u138	Compulsive consultations are what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u139	Just to finish, Mrs Deputies, answer me: if you do not accept here the compromise on behalf of the PS that all moderate rates will be revoked, we will assume that it is a matter of purely ideological and nothing else. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u140	Clearly, the discussion is ideological.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u141	Madam Member, I thank you for your greetings to the Bureau. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u142	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite did not or did not want to hear my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u143	Answer the questions, one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u144	What I said is a challenge to yours and my intelligence, because what is going to happen in relation to moderate rates is that they will burst with the secrecy of the act, and that is what we do not want. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u145	You don't know professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u146	Do you understand, Mr. Deputy? You still haven't noticed or you've already understood and you don't want to understand? Oh, my God! Mrs Teresa Caeiro, with all the respect I have for you, your speech was not serious. One thing is voluntary follow-up, another thing is compulsory follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u147	Of course! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u148	Women do not need to be protected by the State in order to have the follow-up they want. And they must have total freedom to decide whether or not they want it based on what they want to do to their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u149	You gentlemen are a farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u150	You have not been serious, Mrs Deputies, and yes, I say yes, we have the defence of human rights as one of our first and greatest priorities. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the issues of voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) that we hold today in the Assembly of the Republic is of great importance for Portuguese women. What is at stake and what is required is the replacement of the previous legal framework for voluntary termination of pregnancy, putting an end to the deep backwardness initiated by PSD and CDS-PP in relation to sexual and reproductive rights and the free option of women. We assume the electoral commitment that at the beginning of this legislature we propose a legislative initiative to eliminate coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to IVG. However, more than the commitment we have made today, the presentation of the bill that repeals the amendments imposed at the end of the previous legislature, it is about restoring the dignity of women and fundamental rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was absolutely embarrassing everything that involved the legislative process, a real legislative blow, as we had the opportunity to denounce, which led to the amendment of the law of the IVG with the introduction of mechanisms to condition and limit the free option of women and the imposition of moderate fees.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u155	This is a process which, of course, has not been and is not disconnected from sectors on the right, revengers, who intend to settle accounts with the sovereign and progressive decision of the Portuguese people, who so far continue not to accept this decision and who, due to lack of political courage, do not assume their true conception in relation to IVG, but seek to introduce obstacles that hinder women's access to sexual and reproductive rights, in which access to IVG, as previously reflected in the law, is integrated. PSD and CDS-PP have become mandatory what must be optional.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u156	Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u157	Psychological follow-up and follow-up by social service technicians should continue to be available to women who request it and should not be a compulsive follow-up, ignoring the will of women.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u159	But they didn't stay here. PSD and CDS-PP enabled conscientious objectors to consult, being themselves elements of cohesion with women who want to voluntarily interrupt a pregnancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u161	And they still imposed moderate rates. We recall that the law enabling its collection had not yet been published in the Journal of the Republic and the Government had already announced its amount — such was the rush to make the decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u163	The position of the CFP in relation to moderate rates, more than its amount, is a matter of principle. We defend its repeal, because they have a limited character in access to health, in addition to that the provision of health care in the context of family planning until it was free from moderate rates precisely because women's health, in all its dimensions and throughout their life cycle, is a universal right. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Right parties have justified the amendments made to the IVG legal framework by resorting to false arguments, to justify what is not justified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u165	They affirmed the need to improve the legal framework, when there was no concrete element indicating the inadequacy of the law in force at the time, in order to hide their real intentions, which in no way relate to the improvement of the law, which, essentially, is pacified in Portuguese society, but rather, in order to condition the decision-making of women who intend to perform an IVG, depending on the conditionalisms introduced, including those of an economic nature. Although they continue to use and abuse, either directly or indirectly, the IVG's swindling argument is used as a contraceptive method, reality is completely deceptive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u167	There are three very clear data: firstly, in recent years there has been a reduction in the number of IVGs in Portugal ; secondly, the number of IVGs in Portugal is much lower than in the countries of Europe, and thirdly, the overwhelming majority of women who use IVG did - for the first time (more than 70 %) and are also women who are unemployed, do not have incomes or take up low incomes. Another of the arguments, absolutely demagogic, referred to birth. It is not the IVG that prevents families from having the children they wish. What truly prevents and conditions the decision of families to have children, and the number of children they wish to have, is related to the degradation of economic and social conditions, such as job instability, precariousness in contracts — with contracts each week and up to the day — the low wages, the reduction in social protection and insufficient support for children, resulting from the PSD and CDS-PP policies, which hypocritically hampered access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative proposed by the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic puts an end to retrograde and reactionary conceptions of women and their role in society. It's part of the past, and that's where it should remain, the scourge of clandestine abortion. But we do not forget the drama of thousands of women, including working women, women with low incomes, who were subject to interruptions of pregnancy in angry and humiliating conditions, questioning their physical integrity, which, in many situations, cost their own life. We do not want this reality to come back in our day. It is fair to recall today, in this debate, the struggle of thousands and thousands of women in our country, for decades, for the guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights, for the right to health, for the right to dignity and freedom to choose and decide in conscience. It is fair that we recall the unequivocal will of the Portuguese in the referendum in 2007, which must continue to be respected and that it cannot be disavowed administratively, as PSD and CDS-PP did at the end of the previous legislature. But once again, the women and the Portuguese people gave the answer, changing the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, following the election result, which allows us to be engaged in a debate which will aim to restore the rights and dignity of Portuguese women. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u168	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Until the end of the past legislature, a regime was in force concerning the voluntary termination of pregnancy, by option of the woman, during the first 10 weeks and everything was quiet and giving positive results. It is seen that the national plan to combat illegal abortion was being guaranteed, that the number of abortions, contrary to what was said, did not fire or increase, and the deaths or complications concerning women who practice abortion significantly decreased by this interruption of pregnancy if done in an assisted manner. This is an extraordinarily positive result. In addition, there was a substantial increase in family planning consultations on the initiative of women. All results are extremely positive! This is except when, at the end of the past legislature, the right, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, who, by the way, had nothing else to do or to worry about in Portugal, decided to make a change to the law and, in July last year, they approved in this same Chamber two legal diplomas in a completely disproposed way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u170	You seem to have nothing else to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u171	What they considered fundamental was that women who practice voluntary termination of pregnancy began to pay moderate rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u172	7 euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u173	... that they were required to be accompanied, tilting this follow-up to the cessation of voluntary interruption pregnancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u174	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u175	It was not a matter of ensuring voluntary support and clinical information and freedom from women, insofar as this was already contemplated and enshrined in the law, but rather of returning to the logic of the penalization and humiliation of women. And, as if it were not enough, conscientious objectors enter to influence these women in their decision, to participate in the entire process. at the bottom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as if Portuguese women did not know what they were doing and were not free, in their consciences, about the choices they make. It is a deep disrespect for women that has resulted from the changes that you have made to the regime of voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a humiliation to Portuguese women.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what The Greens said in this debate at the end of July last year was the following, and I am quoting myself: "At the beginning of the next legislature it is necessary to correct this nonsense. And the Greens will do everything to revoke what you want to approve today. Do not keep on seeking. ” And here we are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to keep our word. at the beginning of another legislation, we presented a bill just in that sense and we will revoke what you have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u178	You don't have anything else to introduce!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u179	Look, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, I could now be very confused because I have presented a package of 10 legislative initiatives on issues that we consider important to resolve quickly in Portugal, including this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u180	It was the first!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u181	Look, I don't know if it was the first, if the second, if the third of the 10 because we delivered the 10 projects together. But see there, Mrs Deputies, if that is the relevant issue to discuss in this debate. in this debate what matters is the following: we are at the beginning of a new legislation, with a new parliamentary framework, with new parliamentary representativeness of the various political forces and this regime cannot remain in force even another day! Revocation now, Your Honor! That is our obligation, that is our duty to Portuguese women. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u183	Mr President, different Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, these amendments to Law No. 16/2007 are unacceptable, incomprehensible and outraged. How can we understand the compulsive character and the obligation of two follow-ups, the psychological and social, of the woman? How to judge this mark of external control which is guided by four obligations, which make the process of reflection, which must be free and clarified, in a process of cohesion, in which the mandatory character of psychological and social monitoring is, above all, a transmission to women and society of which something is wrong with it. We do not accept involvement in the process of conscientious objectors; we do not accept the non-compulsory public knowledge of the status of conscientious objectors. Transparency is an imperative in Public Administration and SNS. Above all, what we want to convey in this debate is that we need health education policies that include sexual education and reproductive sexual health, which include family planning programs and without loyalty to contraceptive methods. Unfortunately, the last change in the curriculum matrix operated by Nuno Crato ended up devalued education for citizenship, where these subjects would also fit. These changes, which are unfair, above all, represent a protected, trendy and restrictive view of women's autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u185	It is this vision of subalternization and of minorityization that we repudiate. It is this ideological prejudice that we are here today. That's what we're correcting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u187	It is this replacement of justice, dignity and freedom that we are doing today. We promise that we will do so and we are fulfilling our commitment, which goes against the history of the Socialist Party and the defense of women's rights. on 4 October, a new parliamentary framework was born here, in which the rights of women, their dignity and the protection of sexual and reproductive health will be respected and recognized, not only in a proclaiming or demagogic way, but in a "whole and clean" form and, above all, effective. Get used to it! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u188	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is on the proposal for the repeal of two recent laws, which entered into force on 1 October. They understood the banks of the PS, the Greens, the PCP and the Left Block that women who resort to the interruption of pregnancy by option until 10 weeks should again be exempt from moderate rates and that psychosocial follow-up by health services in the period of reflection should not be compulsory. This is what this debate is about and not about distortions and multiple reverses that have already been presented by other benches. For us, this debate has never been a process of intent nor has it ever been in question the reopening of the discussion on the decriminalization of abortion. For us, this is a debate that requires serenity, truth, respect for the diversity of opinions and convictions, because for us and in democracy there are no convictions of first and second, depending on the political quadrant from where they come. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, I would like to say that, for us, the defense of women's dignity is not the property of any of these benches... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u190	But it's only practical for a few!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u191	...and that, in this bench, we respect them no less than in yours. Thus, nothing prevents us, therefore, from here reaffirming, calmly, alongside thousands of Portuguese men and women, our convictions. For us, the core of these laws, the core of this debate is three aspects. The first is the positive appreciation that the State must make of maternity and paternity, particularly in a situation that is usually dramatic for women and in which the State should not fail to support them through the provision of multiple solutions that can prevent abortion. The second central aspect concerns issues of equity and social justice, which have already been mentioned here, refusing preferential treatment for IVG in relation to other medical acts. It should be borne in mind, because it seems to be forgotten, that the criteria for the exemption from moderate rates were maintained, in this case, in particular in situations of economic insufficiency and unemployment, where women never had to pay moderate rates to perform IVG, and it should also be remembered that the examinations and consultations before and after the voluntary interruption of pregnancy were still exempt. One last aspect, which is central in this debate, is about the value of information and clarification and the true informed consent, the modern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u192	What modern? Oh, my God! Mandatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u193	...what is practised in Portuguese health services or what is intended to be practiced and which will never restrict women's freedom of decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u195	I shall now conclude, Mr President. First, in our view, it expands that same freedom. And it seems to us, in fact, that in this debate we are not the ones who undermine women's decision-making capacity... [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] ... nor so little will we be diabolizing the ethical intervention of health professionals who, in favor of or against abortion, should take throughout this process. It seems relevant to us, to conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u196	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u197	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, it seems appropriate to remind us that in the Constitutional Court judgment, concerning the 2007 referendum, it was said that the constitutional admissibility of the recognition of the right of voluntary termination of pregnancy, carried out by the option of the woman, cannot, however, be interpreted as acceptance that the Basic Law enshrines abortion as a method of family planning or control of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u198	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u199	Rather, measures such as these, which appear particularly important, are measures that may in fact go in the sense of compulsoryness — and it was the Constitutional Court that said so — in a previous consultation of counsel.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, but it has been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u201	Thus, and thanking the understanding of Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u202	I understand, but the time is that it's been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u203	I am concluding, Mr. President. Maternity and paternity must be valued in all its aspects. I would, in fact, like to conclude by saying the following: in democracy and in debates like this, we are seeing too much of an idea that there are owners of the regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u204	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u205	... and we will not tolerate systematically collating to the left an idea of superiority and moral nobility and that in relation to others, those in the center and those on the right, it devaluations and disqualifies systematically. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u206	For a new intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto : I would like to mention, above all, why this need to change a law, which was a law that, for eight years, worked crystallly; a law that functioned well; a law that reduced the number and increased the quality of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, with a rate of repetition of 1 % abortions, so there were fewer repeated abortions. Why change a law that drastically reduced the number of deaths due to complications resulting from or associated with abortion, a law that resolved a social and public health problem and, above all, why change a law that was legitimized by a referendum, a law that had a universal suffrage that exalted it from the point of view of society? This is a question of society, it is a question of everyone and of all, it is a question of human rights. For the Socialist Party, modernity cannot be compulsion, modernity cannot be compulsory. Modernity is, above all, to advance women's rights and not to operate civilizational setbacks, as has happened with these two legislative amendments. At this retreat the PS said not in July and says that not today, accompanied by this new majority, that it defends human rights and women's rights. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the members of the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u208	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when the country undergoes a profound political crisis, resulting from the non-recognition of the election defeat by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, the first priority of the political parties to the left of the Hemicycle is to repeal the laws that create a moderate rate for the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. These four parties claim to have a coherent and solid solution for the country's governance — PS, PCP, The Greens and BE — which, despite apparently agreeing to the matter, were once again unable to present a single joint bill. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] More: the laws that the left parties now intend to revoke have been passed just over four months ago. Published about one month ago — on 1 October this year — laws passed by a Parliament in full office are well understood that for the left the decisions emanating from the Assembly of the Republic, the seat of representative democracy, are only to respect if the left ones agree with them. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] A different concept of democracy, to which we had become accustomed, coming from the far left side, but which has now contaminated at least part of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u210	You've lost the majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u211	With this new practice, we realize that, at the hands of the Socialist Party, another tradition fell. The unwritten rule for legislators to respect legislative stability fades and we realize that the argument of stability only applies when the left parties agree with the laws in question. When the left doesn't agree, it's all worth it, and that's unacceptable for us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Let us make it clear that we repudiate the lightness with which these parties are addressing the legislative process and that we reiterate that the principles of stability and predictability for the PSD are fundamental to a democracy that is full and developed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u212	You have to explain this argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u213	But let's go to the substance of today's discussion. In favour of the truth, let it be clear: after the 2007 referendum, the PSD never put the possibility of returning to the past and recovering the debate of the criminalization of abortion. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u214	What happened last July, following a legislative initiative involving more than 45,000 Portuguese citizens, was that the Assembly of the Republic approved the introduction of a moderate rate due in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy and also an extended set of psychological and social support to women who use the IVG consultations. These are the amendments which the parties to the left are seeking to repeal today. As I could recall in my first speech, communists and bloggers are, in principle, against the existence of any moderate rates — these or any other. On the other hand, the Socialist Party, the last time it assumed government responsibilities in our country, wanted to impose moderate rates on patients who were hospitalized in hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u215	Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u216	It had to be the majority PSD/CDS, in full financial adjustment programme, to develop mechanisms that would protect citizens in a situation of economic and social vulnerability. We have decided to exempt all citizens with a proven condition of economic insufficiency and still all minor citizens, all refugee citizens in our country, in addition to all pregnant women and all family planning consultations. By virtue of these decisions, of the approximately 4 million citizens, who were exempt in 2011, today we have almost 7 million Portuguese who do not pay any moderate fee. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] This is a reality which also applies to IVG. Moreover: in the case of IVG, it is ensured that all medical follow-up until the termination of pregnancy is free of charge, as well as subsequent consultation or follow-up consultation. The introduction of the moderate rate for the implementation of the IVG is an act that respects the principle of equality and equity among Portuguese citizens who use the National Health Service and the value applied is the same as a speciality consultation. in practice, what happens today is the payment of 7, 75 € by women at the time of IVG, and they only have to pay those who have economic conditions that allow it and that they are older. In other words, women with economic insufficiency, or underage, do not pay any moderate rates. Accepting that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy does not have any moderate associated rate would be to equate IVG with any other contraceptive method, which, for us, is totally unacceptable. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Invoking that the existence of this rate constitutes a barrier to access to voluntary termination services of pregnancy alone is a fallacy and an instrument of populist demagogy in which we do not recognize ourselves. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u217	The authors of the bills today are also seeking to revoke the mandatory existence of psychological support consultations and social services monitoring for women who use IVG services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u218	Shake your nose off your head!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u219	It is not understood how the parties on the left want to withdraw from the State their obligation to ensure this follow-up to women, preferring to leave them to their fate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] This position is even more serious if we take into account the findings of the 2013 General Inspection of Health Activities report, held in 18 SNS establishments where IVG is practised in our country. This report presented important proposals aimed at « optimising access to psychological and social support consultations which are not being adequately guaranteed ». These proposals were incorporated into the law that today the parties to the left want to revoke. [[PCP protests.]] We do not accept that women who opt to resort to voluntary termination consultations of pregnancy are again in a situation of deep vulnerability and social isolation. To finish, let me still have a personal note, as a doctor. I find it unacceptable to consider the unreflected form as the parties on the left have argued that the informed consent of the woman who consults the IVG may be considered a form of pressure to continue with pregnancy. IVG is an irreversible act with physical and psychological consequences and whoever makes this decision has the right to know what they are. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Moreira.]] Moreover, any doctor, regardless of his convictions, has an obligation to provide this information before the woman finally decides whether to stop her pregnancy. To prevent doctors — who have taken the oath of Hippocrates — from exercising their profession as conscientious objectors is a serious violation of the individual rights of these professionals and an interference of the State in the sacred relationship between doctors and citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Distrust and persecution are typical of dictatorial regimes, against which we will always fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u220	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u221	I will now finish, Mr President. On behalf of the honour of this Assembly of the Republic, but above all in the name of the dignity of women who may have to resort to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, I appeal to the Socialist Party that does not approve this civilizational retrogression. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u222	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like — and this time, yes — to refocus the debate where it should be and remember the direct benches that this is not a debate on moderate rates, nor on National Health Service. [[Yeah, yeah!]] [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u224	This is a debate about a fundamental right of women, which was enshrined in a law that you have changed to retreat. Whoever changed stability was your benches. This is a debate on the right of women to be able to make a choice in the privacy of their decision, without their choice being made through an administrative act and without being obliged to have psychological advice when they do not wish to. Here, on this side, it is considered that women have the perfect ability to decide about their lives and choices, without being obliged to have counsel. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] They're no smaller! They are citizens with the ability to decide about their lives. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Galriça Neto of the CDS, the defence of women's rights is not a matter of proclamation, it is a matter of practice. And the practice of PSD and CDS is not to defend women's rights, it is to attack women's rights. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] Those who approve measures to limit women's access to sexual and reproductive health care are not defending the dignity of women, are attacking their dignity, are attacking a fundamental right. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] The interventions of PSD and CDS are revealing, and they reveal the adjustment of accounts that PSD and CDS wanted to make with the 2007 referendum and with the sovereign decision of the Portuguese people regarding the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u228	At the blight of the moderate rate, what comes back is a vengeful, retrograde and deeply reactionary aspect of women's emancipation and social autonomy. And that's a brand of PSD and CDS. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] It will remain forever in the history that PSD and CDS took advantage of the last opportunity they had, on the last day of voting in this House, Mrs Teresa Caeiro — and with so many problems in the country! — to once again attack the rights of women. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] A government that, for four years, has shot at unemployment, precariousness, poverty and emigration thousands of women, on the last day of previous legislation, has approved another measure that humiliates women, a measure that reduces women and their free choice of sexual and reproductive health. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] PSD and CDS wanted to impose an account adjustment with what was a progressive conquest of women and the country. The problem of abortion is a matter of public health and therefore represented a civilizational conquest for our country. But it comes by far this desire of the right to settle accounts with the sexual and reproductive rights of women. We remember well when in 2002 Minister Paulo Portas was Minister of Defense and ordered Marine Corps to ban the Women on Waves boat from contributing in our country. It was the right and the Minister of Defence, Paulo Portas, who prevented a ship from bringing here and exposing the problem of women's sexual and reproductive rights. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] We also remember when, in a government of AD, PSD and CDS sectors at the time, they said that, with UNESCO money, they were sterilizing women in Portuguese villages. Well, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, this speech on the sterilization of women with money from UNESCO was in 1980, but his intervention today in that forum in 2015 is not far behind him, and leaves much to be desired in relation to « reactionary ». [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u229	from the PCP, we know that the fight for women's sexual and reproductive rights, the struggle for decriminalization of voluntary interruption of pregnancy is an integral part of the major struggle of Portuguese women, the struggle for their emancipation, for their economic, social and cultural autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u230	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u231	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only this: it was this struggle, that same struggle that defeated the PSD and the CDS, the previous government, and imposed a path that must be of progress and social justice. And that's why you don't do it. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u232	The Greens and the PAN each handed over one minute to the Socialist Party, so Mrs Ana Catrina Mendonça Mendes benefits from this assignment. You have the floor, Mrs Deputy, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u233	I have personally thanked the passing of time, Mr President, so at this moment I just wanted to refocus the debate, saying that eight years ago and twelve years ago, when here in this House I had the privilege to discuss the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, not for any ideological matter only but, essentially, for a defence of the human rights of those who were implicated, often paying with their lives, resorting to illegal abortion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u235	... at that time I had the privilege to be with more moderate people of the PSD, such as Mr Rui Rio or as Mrs Deputy, so far President of the Assembly of the Republic, Assumption Esteves, in the defence of the human rights of men and women of this country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly difficult for me to attend a debate like the one we attended here this afternoon. Without excess is what women are required to be confronted with the need to decide to stop a pregnancy. It is not an old age; it is not even a lightness; it is a necessity, often a very great distress, which leaves marks for the rest of its lives. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Greens.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, we are against the introduction of moderate rates, yes, because they introduce discrimination and open up a space to the fire of private life, which should not happen. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]] And we are against mandatory consultations, yes, because we understand that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is too serious, it is too intimate and personal, it is often a lonely and difficult decision to make...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u237	... and its pain cannot be overcome by the mandatory consultation which has been the subject of a great discussion in this Parliament and which we have not accepted to introduce into the law. I would like to conclude, Mr President, with your kindness, by saying the following: the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy was a law referred to by the people, obtained the majority in the referendum. We respect all those who have chosen to do so and do not try again that this Parliament — over the years, the right has tried — alters what the referendum has decided: end illegal abortion and return dignity to the women who resort to it. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-19.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow for 10 a.m. on the following agenda: appraisal of draft resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Fundamental guidelines of Portuguese foreign policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Elimination of legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( First amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE), 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ), 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ), 28 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex by making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PAN) and 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account adoption, assisted medicinal product procreation and civil sponsorship by same-sex couples (BE). Draft resolutions 3 / XIII ( 1 ) will also be discussed. ( a ) — National Railway Plan(The Greens) and 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national rail plan ( BE ). There will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
