ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. Let us begin our work by reading the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Duarte Pacheco Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 11 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 190 / 2015 of 10 September approving the Legal Regime of Economic Boxes, and amending the General Regime of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and the Code of Mutual Associations, approved by Decree-Law No 72 / 90 of 3 March ( BE ), and draft resolution No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the defence of additional Community measures for milk cattle farming ( PSD / CDS-PP ), lower than 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u3	Mrs. Members, the agenda consists of three points. in the first point, we have for joint assessment, in general, the projects of lein.os 43 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 42 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 34 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), PS, and 39 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 40 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 41 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), the PSD and the CDS-PP, on matters relating to the State budget for 2015. in point two, we have to appreciate draft resolutions 11 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), on administrative modernization. in point three, the projects of lein.os 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 36 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE), 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PAN) and 51 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( The Greens ), concerning assisted medicinal product breeding techniques, as Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u5	You have the floor, Mr. Ascension Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u6	Mr President, Members were aware that the Government would take possession of today at 16 hours and thus we have a problem of a regiment nature and even related to the Statute of Members. This is because we have a call for this session, which starts with a group of Members, who, according to the press and even by the note by Mr President of the Republic, will take over, but from that moment on will come to the Assembly of the Republic another group of Members and, during this time, we do not know what the circumstances of their mandate are, since their Commission has not yet spoken. It would be right if Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, at the beginning of this session, told us — until it was registered in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic — which will be the procedure, as we are going to develop internally the procedures of the Assembly of the Republic, to know which are the Members. Ladies and gentlemen coming out, which are you. Members coming in and under what circumstances the Assembly of the Republic is located between 16 hours and 17 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u7	Mr President, yesterday there was a conference of leaders, which ended at about 1 p.m. Then there was a plenary, as you will recall, and several informal contacts between banks and the President of the Assembly of the Republic, because the President himself of the Assembly of the Republic was surprised by the fact that the government's possession was at 16 hours, which, as you know, implies the replacement of the various Members who will take possession as members of the government. I think we're in a new situation and it's not worth finding incidents for anything. What was decided by me, and I take full responsibility, was that this session remained. There is an agenda that is absolutely important, but, even if not, the stability of the agenda is anything we have to maintain. So tomorrow morning, before 10 a.m., there will be a meeting of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members, since the Subcommittee on Ethics has not yet taken power, to proceed with its substitutions and, consequently, there is no problem, there is no hiatus, and the honourable Members. Members are free to use their parliamentary function as they understand. I myself will shortly be replaced by Vice-President Jorge Lacão to go to Help, but I will return to the end of the session. I think there's nothing left to discuss this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u9	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u10	Mr President, it is only to leave the following record: at the first item on the agenda, we will discuss matters that are of labour relevance, because these are, in particular, remuneration. The divergence in the House between the various parliamentary groups is known, because the CFP's Parliamentary Group believes that the proper application of legislation and the Constitution would imply that the public hearing of workers' representative organisations would take place before the discussion in general. It is known that this is not the majority opinion in this House, because it considers that the general debate can be held and that only the overall final vote should be taken after the public consultation. Thus, Mr President, it was only at the beginning of the debate that the record of this difference with regard to the one which has been the majority understanding in this House for several years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u11	Mr President, your objection had already been to the Conference of Leaders, but it is thus clearer. Mrs. Members, entering the agenda, we have, in the first point, the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 43 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget ( PS ), 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the overtax of IRS ( PS ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in Public Administration ( PS ), 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( PS ), 39 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the mechanisms for temporary remuneration reductions and the conditions for their reversal by making the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application of the extraordinary solidarity contribution during 2016 ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 41 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application in 2016 of tax matters contained in the law which approved the State budget for 2015 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the draft laws of the Socialist Party, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country lives today on the first day of a new government cycle. Within minutes it takes possession of the XXI Constitutional Government, the initiative of the Socialist Party, led by its Secretary-General, Antonio Costa, and supported by a new parliamentary majority. at the same time as the government takes possession, Parliament discusses the first measures of the Programme approved by the National Committee of the Socialist Party, which includes the changes resulting from the negotiations with the left-wing parliamentary parties. The current political situation, resulting from the elections to the Assembly of the Republic only in October 2015 and from the subsequent indication of a minority government, however resigning, prevented the preparation, presentation and approval of a State budget for 2016 that could enter into force from 1 January. The fact that the Government is not in full office has put an end to its legislative initiatives aimed at extending the validity of a set of revenue provided for in the State Budget Act for 2015. While it should be admitted that these are not revenue that lasts only until the end of the economic year to which the budget law is concerned, legal certainty advises that, even with regard to these, it is explicitly extended. On the other hand, the extension of the duration of certain revenue seeks not to jeopardise the financing of the expenditure to be carried out during the year 2016 without further measures that form part of a strategy for the sustainability of public finances. in this framework, the PS proposes for 2016 the extension of a set of revenue provided for in the State Budget for 2015 : the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry; the additional contribution within the single circulation tax; the additional contribution to the taxes on oil and energy products; the contribution on the banking sector; and the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector. in the same line, the Socialist Party has proposed the extinction of the Extraordinary Solidarity Contribution ( CES ) gradually: half in 2016 and total elimination from 1 January 2017. In 2016, the ESC shall be 7, 5 % over amounts exceeding 11 times the value of the social support indexer (IAS) and 20 % over amounts exceeding 20 times the social support indexer. It is therefore a matter of carrying out a fair consideration between the public interest and the constitutional principles of equality and the protection of trust. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, other measures that we consider fundamental are also presented to Parliament today: the extinction of pay cuts in public administration and the extinction of the IRS overtax. The adoption of the less severe system of remuneration reduction provided for in Law No 75 / 2014 was the result of the decision to declare the unconstitutionality of the previous legislation, provided for in the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 that the regime was in force until 2019. In view of the extension to 2016 of the system of remuneration reductions, it is necessary to intervene legislatively to ensure that the full replacement of remuneration entitlements is made in 2016, due to the case law of the Constitutional Court. However, as has already been said, the current political moment makes it impossible to prepare, present and approve a State Budget for 2016 with effect from 1 January of that year. The budget maps of the expenditure that will be in force at the beginning of 2016 will thus be maps of the State budget for 2015 by twelfths, whose spending limits would not allow the payment of remuneration in its entirety. in cases where such payment was possible it could lead to a disruption of the operation of services due to insufficient budget appropriations for any other expenditure. This situation therefore advises that the full replacement of remuneration rights in the Public Administration be promoted gradually but so that the total reduction has been eliminated in the last quarter of 2016, namely: 40% reversal in remuneration paid from 1 January 2016 ; 60 % reversal in remuneration paid from 1 April 2016 ; 80 % reversal in remuneration paid from 1 July 2016 ; complete elimination of remuneration reduction from 1 October 2016. This option for gradual replacement is also prudent from the point of view of the budgetary balance targets to be met in 2016. The fourth proposal we are defending here concerns the extinction of the overtax of IRS. Overtax is a strong increase in the tax burden on family income, but also, and no less important, is a significant decrease in tax progressiveity. Overtax is applied by the same value on high incomes and low incomes, which unjustly results in higher taxation for families with lower incomes. It is the Socialist Party's option to intervene in order to alleviate tax pressure on families, to train the growth of their available income and to increase the progressiveity of IRS. The elimination of overtax must be a priority of fiscal policy in the XIII Legislation. In other words, from 1 January, the overtax will be 1, 75 % and will be extinct in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these four measures prevent a sudden and too significant decrease in tax revenue, without other measures being taken that incorporate a public finance sustainability strategy based on the recovery of economic growth and employment. Between 2011 and 2015, the wealth generated in the country receded more than a decade, the investment retreated to mid-80s levels, lost 200 000 jobs and emigrated more than 350 000 people. Wage devaluation, cuts in earnings of workers and pensioners, promotion of precarious work, attack on social security, degradation of public services, disinvestment in public school and the National Health Service and cuts in science were measures of the PSD government / CDS, not with the main objective of sustainability of public accounts but, yes, of changing the relationship of forces in Portugal, against the interests of workers, families, middle classes and the poorest. Families have seen their incomes come down, often losing their own housing, at the same time that they have suffered the greatest tax burden ever. Portugal is still living in a prolonged social and economic crisis. Mr President, it is with the aim of turning the page of the last four years that we have presented these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u13	To present the PSD and CDS-PP bills, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing two sets of diplomas, the PSD and the CDS and the Socialist Party, which have in common the recovery of income and the reversal of austerity, the reduction in the remuneration of public servants in force since 2010, created by the last Government of the Socialist Party, the reduction of the IRS rate, the reduction of the ESC, the extraordinary contribution of solidarity on pensions and only on pensions above €4500, and the extension of extraordinary contributions on the banking, pharmaceutical and energy sectors — a special sacrifice that well demonstrates that in times of need, we must ask more of those who have more.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u16	But it is very important to stress that if, today, all these projects here propose a recovery of income, a reversal of austerity, this happens because we can. And we can, because at the end of 2015, at the end of four and a half years of government of the majority PSD / CDS, today, November 26, 2015, Portuguese public finances are much, but much healthier and more balanced than they were four years ago. We are far from being on the edge of bankruptcy, as in May 2011 without external credibility, with a deficit of more than 11 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u18	... with a debt in explosive growth, with a social state in financial ruin and troika in here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Yesterday, with the presentation of the budget implementation, we also learned that the public accounts are much better,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u19	Better on what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u20	... because the deficit in 2015 reduced at least EUR 1200 million compared to the previous year, and this reduction occurred in a healthy way: two thirds on the side of the expenditure and one third on the side of the revenue, with the revenue increasing, even when the main taxes or falls, such as the IRS and the IRC, or they remained, like the VAT, and the expenditure to be reduced, in the year of elections. It is the first time in democratic history that expenditure goes down in the year of elections, which shuts up any argument that this majority manages public finances with electoralism. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Debt also started its reduction path. It's important to have healthy public accounts! It is important that this balance of public accounts, which we, most of us, the country and the Portuguese, have built in these four and a half years, because it returns credibility and trust to attract more investment, which creates jobs and wealth. It is important because it protects us from worsenings of the international environment, and let us not forget how unstable and uncertain it is, but above all, because balanced public accounts mean less deficit. Less deficit means less debt and less debt means less taxes to be paid by the Portuguese in the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u21	It was by now that we are on this recovery path that we all today dare not only to maintain the recovery of income that has already occurred in 2015 but also to propose an additional recovery for next year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals that the PSD and the CDS bring here are exactly those of our electoral commitment to the Portuguese. We propose a gradual and responsible recovery of income, which does not question the future, which is the one that is in line with our electoral commitments. And, speaking of that, I ask the parties on the left or left, especially the PCP and the Left Block : and your speech? What about your election program?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u22	You'll hear next!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u23	Like VV. Ex. will they be next to the Socialist Party's proposals, which make, like ours, a gradual reversal of austerity and also have sacrifices? Oh, my God! Or are you not going to support these proposals? Oh, my God! I am seriously concerned that the first day of this new government begins with a misunderstanding on the left, and this disagreement is not referred to by me, was the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, Jerome of Sousa, who said yesterday: "We do not yet understand this fundamental issue! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u24	Well remembered! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u25	I am concerned that Country will build with this instability and misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u27	We'll be there! Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u28	But I would particularly like to know how your vote remains, your electoral commitment. This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, if they approve the PS proposals, will be approving austerity, will be approving an overtax on middle class income and cuts in public officials'incomes. It's hard, it's painful! But how is your speech left, that the rights of workers and pensioners are absolute and would never accept any "touch"? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] How is it that your charges are left, who moves in wages steals? Oh, my God! VV. Will they join the Socialist Party in stealing workers? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Or, after all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is the fact sheet coming down on you, which denies everything you have said so far? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] Are they finally understanding that there are scarce resources, that there are not some that protect the rich and others the poor, but that we are all looking for a balance that makes fundamental rights not absolute, in the letter, but effective, in reality, and not only for the short term, but for a long and sustainable future? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u29	You're so worried!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u30	Go or don't stay, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Communist Party and the Left Block, are you faithful to your commitments, to your history, and to the 18% voters who voted in you? Oh, my God! Or are you going to jump the wall of your conviction to join the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party could, as a recommendation to the new Government, remember that the last time they were in the government they left him in crisis and with the greatest package of austerity, of international commitment that Portugal has already lived. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I remind you that not to wish the country to live a new time of these, but simply so that they do not repeat your story, so that they do not make the same mistakes, so that they do not bring the same disorientation to the country, the same imbalance that occurred last time they were there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u31	So what does the PSD propose? Oh, my God! Nothing? Oh, my God! [[Good question!]] [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I could also ask you, if you do not thank at least, to recognise that if you now receive a country without troika and in recovery, and that is why today, on the first day, you propose and vote, as we do, the recovery of incomes, it is because we and especially the Portuguese, in these four and a half years, have done a great job. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Let me tell you and, above all, ask you that, even if you do not thank the Portuguese, you will recognize that this recovery has been due to everyone except you. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u33	It's being hilarious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u34	But if VV. Ex.s just jumped out of touch when the most difficult was done, now that they are out here, don't ruin, don't waste the sacrifices, don't ruin the results achieved. What distinguishes us, because there is distinction between us, is your way of thinking today, while ours is thinking today and tomorrow is a path of gradual recovery, of responsibility and of moderation. We are different and it is because of this difference that we will continue to fight. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u35	Mr António Leitão Amaro, signed up to request clarifications from two Mrs. Members, one from the PCP and one from the Left Block. In view of the time available, I assume you will answer together. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u36	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro has just presented, among other things, a legislative initiative that regulates the collection of an overtax within IRS imposed by the former PSD/CDS Government in the context of a brutal tax collection on labour income and that you would like to extend, at least until 2019, by 2019, something that the honourable Member has forgotten to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u37	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u38	I can only point out that, in this proposal, the PSD and the CDS have dropped the tax credit which, allegedly, would allow some of the overtax to be returned in the year following that of its collection. An ambush mounted in the election year for the sole purpose of deceiving the Portuguese, creating the illusion that, with you, the brutal tax burden on workers would be relieved by 2015. Now, your ambush has been unmasked, leaving you no choice but to drop the tax credit. From the first moment that the PCP denounced the return of the overtax as an ambush, from then on because, in order to have a small refund of the overtax, the Portuguese would have to pay more taxes at the headquarters of IRS and VAT. Indeed, in order to regain a mere EUR 50 million in 2016, due to the return of the overtax, taxpayers would have to pay more EUR 1000 million of IRS and VAT in 2015. There is therefore no return, which is an increase in the tax burden on labour income and consumption. During the election campaign, the ambush gained an increase in size. The PSD/CDS Government has endeavoured, by all means, to create in the public the perception that a significant refund of the overtax was guaranteed, at least 35 % — they said — but could be more. The harsh reality, revealed by the latest budget execution data, is another: instead of 35 %, Mr António Leitão Amaro, the return will be a zero round! This attitude of PSD and CDS does not surprise us. Already in 2011 before the legislative elections, they promised something, but when they got caught in the government, they did exactly the opposite. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u39	To give greater credibility to the ambush, the PSD/CDS government, which today ceases to function, did not hesitate to sacrifice the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, imposing severe rules on them for the return of VAT,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u40	And a little word about the salaries and the PS position, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u41	... with the aim of delaying reimbursements and thus empollizing tax revenue. This attitude is shameful and only reveals that PSD and CDS do not know limits when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u43	Mr President, explain why tax credit has disappeared from your proposal. Recognize that the return of the overtax was an ambush and that after that ambush had been unmasked, they no longer had the conditions to repeat it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u44	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u45	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, there are, in fact, things that never change: the government is a few minutes away from changing, Mr. Members are now opposed, but it is only new that they are opposed to the government because they have always been, and continue to be, a negative coalition against the Constitution and against the rights of workers. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Ten times the Constitutional Court has led your policies and come here, you gentlemen. Members of the right, yes, repeat the same mistakes. It seems to me that you have forgotten that we only have an opportunity to discuss the replacement of income here, because before that, there has been a huge theft of Portuguese income and, in this case, of public servants, who have become the easiest target, the preferred target of the right government. The proof of this is that, of the ten times that the Constitutional Court led measures of this government, six had to do with measures that directly attacked public officials. Six times they tried, illegally, to attack public officials! They were an easy target! of the adjustment that was made, 20 % was about public servants! of the cuts they have made over four years of austerity, 20 % were above and at the expense of public servants! Seven salaries were what lost a public employee with income above 1500 €! On average, a public official lost €268 per month more than twice as much as a private sector official lost during austerity. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This was and is the guarantee of the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u46	Are you going to approve or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u47	The right-wing guarantee is illegality and unconstitutionality in measures, the attack on rights, the attack on our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u48	And the unconstitutionality is just ours or is it also the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u49	Our guarantee is different! The guarantee of the Left Block is exactly what you said, it is to be faithful to our commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u50	Are you going to approve or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u51	The Left Block took the measures that cut the salaries of civil servants to the Constitutional Court and we won! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u52	What now?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u53	We have taken this step to negotiations with the Socialist Party and they are here. That is why we are today looking forward to our commitments, and our commitment is to fully return the salary of civil servants, in 2016, for a matter of dignity, for a matter of justice, but also of respect for the Constitution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u54	To reply, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Paulo Sá and Mr. Mariana Mortágua, thank you for your questions. I am not surprised that you have spent all your time talking about the past, for a simple reason: you do not live well either with the present nor with the future in which you are entering. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] by our proposals, by our three revenue-recovery legislative initiatives, which reduce the overtax, which reduce the remuneration reductions to public officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u56	Say why he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u57	... that reduce the ESC and maintain extraordinary contributions in the three sectors, we respond and assume.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u58	But say there what happened to the tax credit? Explain how he disappeared?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u59	He didn't disappear! Don't be dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u60	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we commit ourselves to the voters with this. You contributed and allegedly committed themselves to the contrary, that there was nothing. Question : Where do you vote? Don't you talk about it? They do not speak because simply this is unacceptable to your voters and it is a doll with which they cannot live? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u61	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we are doing here today, contrary to what many have said and, certainly, many will say, is not between those who want and those who do not want to recover income, because the truth is that all the projects we are discussing today are about income recovery. The discussion, the real discussion we have here today, is among those who, like us, want a gradual and progressive recovery, that is, want a prudent recovery, precisely for it to be a recovery forever, and those who want to do everything at once. [[Congratulations on CDS-PP and PSD.]] This recovery, which we propose today in relation to the overtax, is about 25 % a year, and there has to be, it must be said, opening up to discuss this. It is a recovery in which over the next few years, by 25 % per year, the overtax is reverted to zero. We have no doubt that this recovery is more than deserved. For that reason, we want to be sure that it is made forever, that it does not question the deficit and that we never go back in this recovery. Those who, unlike us, and this is the real debate, want to do everything at once, want to do everything much more quickly do not guarantee that from here a few months or a few years ago it will not come back. And they don't guarantee why? Because they do not ensure that the deficit remains below 3 % and that, after we have definitely seen the troika free, we also see ourselves free from the excessive deficit procedure. This, yes, is the real discussion. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we return to excessive deficits, if we return to budgetary imbalance, if we return to "we spend today to worry about the future tomorrow", surely the biggest damage is precisely the one that pays the surcharge: it is the taxpayer and it is all Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u63	We also defend gradualism in the remuneration of civil service. Here, income recovery has already started in 2015 and what we expect in 2016 is the second stage, with budgetary responsibility. Moreover, it is also interesting that when projects similar to what we present today, but proposed by the government, have entered, many have criticized them. It is interesting to note that the Socialist Party is already beginning to show signs of at least some budgetary responsibility by assuming that something had actually been done and that we could not simply let the year end without some budgetary measures. But remember, when these projects came in a short time ago, and entered by the government's hand, rhetoric was quite different. To sum up and conclude: our projects, either on exceptional measures, or on the progressive and gradual recovery and elimination of the overtax, or on the recovery of pay from the public service, are prudent, are safe, are viable and are gradual. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the big debate that Portugal is going to have over the next year, which we cannot escape from, as much as we lose ourselves in rhetorical discussions and, quite frankly, about the accessory, forgetting what is essential. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion must also be about the causes of things, because if we want to avoid the consequences, if we want to avoid cuts in income, we must be able to avoid their causes. And it is not surprising to read the preamble of the Socialist Party's projects in which it is said, and I quote: « The remuneration reductions applied to public service have expressly resulted from the Economic and Financial Adjustment Plan (PAEF) and the Memorandum of Understanding that has achieved it, (...) ». And more it is said about the overtax of IRS : « This understanding is clear given that the overtax at the IRS headquarters comes expressly from the Economic and Financial Adjustment Plan (PAEF) and the Memorandum of Understanding that has implemented it, (...) ». This is what we want to avoid, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We want, yes, a prudent, safe and viable return, and that is forever, to ensure that there is never again, but never again, a Memorandum of Understanding and a rescue. [[Congratulations on CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u64	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative elections of 4 October confirmed what workers and the people have long been saying, with their struggle, the defeat of the PSD/CDS government and their policy of favouring large capital at the expense of the liquidation of workers' rights and confiscation of income. The new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic makes it possible to respond to the most urgent problems affecting workers and populations, in particular those relating to the return of wages and incomes and to the reduction of the brutal tax burden on labour income. That is the first amendment to be tabled here today. unlike the last four years, in which PSD and CDS have only pointed to the prospect of impoverishment and worsening of the exploitation, today's discussion is made in the perspective of the recovery of income and rights of the replacement of what was cut by PSD and CDS. We are debating today a number of legislative initiatives that will have to take additional account in the budgetary process, regardless of the outcome of this legislative process, in which it is not possible to take into account all relevant fiscal and budgetary data, because PSD and CDS have hidden them from the country and from the Portuguese over four years. Bill No 43 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) submitted by the PS, aims to extend the revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget, in particular contributions on the banking, energy and pharmaceutical sectors, as well as the additional, single circulation tax and the tax on oil and energy products. We will follow this legislative initiative without, however, finding any differences in the maintenance of the additional IUC ( single circulation tax ). Today, we also discuss two other bills, also the PS, on the extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity and the reduction in remuneration in the Public Administration. The positions of the PCP on cuts of wages and pensions are known. Always in the beatings against confiscating workers' incomes, they are active or reformed. I am confident by the former PSD / CDS government, using as a pretext the fiscal consolidation and balance of public accounts, but in fact, with the aim, never declared, of giving up an option to liquidate workers'rights and transfer of labour income to capital. On the termination of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity and the reduction in remuneration in the Public Administration, the joint position between the PS and the CFP is also known, where there is a convergence on this subject as regards the objective, but there is no agreement on the form of realisation. There is, on our part, a firm availability for, during the legislative process, in the specialty, our committed contribution to finding a better solution that respects the proposal, which we consider essential, for the elimination of cuts in wages and pensions, a legislative process in which fiscal elements will be available, essential for a deeper and detailed assessment of possible solutions that correspond to the objective of reversing cuts in wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u66	What a tough exercise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u67	Finally, with regard to draft law No 42 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), a reduction to half the overtax of IRS, in 2016, and complete extinction in 2017, I must say that the fixing of the objective of the elimination of the overtax had already occurred together with the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u68	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, there had already been a fixation of the objective of the elimination of the overtax, although there was no convergence on the form of its implementation. We believe that there is an alternative to the proposal now put forward that best responds to the objective of the elimination of the overtax, an alternative that requires a more detailed analysis, in the field of specialty, based on tax data relating to a whole of taxpayers to whom the overtax applies, data which the previous Government has always ignored, but which will soon be available. From now on, we have demonstrated our committed availability to, in the specialty, contribute to the construction of this alternative. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We heard yesterday and heard again, here today, the new message on the right, much more conformed to the new reality and the new position it occupies in the Portuguese political landscape, the opposition: "Don't spoil! "Don't spoil what we have done! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u73	I think it's worth reflecting a little bit on this call from the right and what it means "Don't spoil! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I propose an exercise: let's see what happened in the past whenever someone broke the plans on the right. In 2012 the Constitutional Court broke out the plans on the right to cut two allowances, on holiday and on Christmas. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u74	In 2013 the Constitutional Court broke the right plans to cut holiday allowance to pensioners and civil servants and —... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ... imagine! — even unemployment and sickness benefits. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] In 2013 the Constitutional Court broke the right-wing plans to fire public officials. In 2013 the Constitutional Court again ruined the right plans to cut 10 % in retirement and invalidity pensions. The Constitutional Court has broken the plans on the right to cut income several times during the last legislation. And imagine! — whenever the plans on the right were broken, the country became better and people were protected. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] And, well, when the right plans were broken, the country grew, GDP grew, and the public accounts improved. [[PSD protests.]] And this year, despite the victorious speech that the right benches make, if the goal of the deficit they self-imposed is not met... [[Yeah, it's...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u75	...is because the right has not yet realized that austerity is damaging. Austerity destroys dignity, spoils the hypothesis of economic growth, spoils the consolidation of public accounts. [[PSD protests.]] The right has not yet realized that we are only discussing returns because someone has cut unsightly incomes over the past four years. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u76	He still did not realize that we are discussing reinstatement of incomes, because the right cut incomes against his electoral commitments in 2011! The honourable Member wanted to talk about electoral commitments. The 2011 electoral commitments failed in 2011. And because you insisted on your austerity policy in four years, today, you admit here that there is no refund of the overtax to anyone. They failed the electoral commitments again, failed in 2011 and failed again in 2015! He came here to say, "We have not been able to return the surcharge! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Austerity failed! Twice they failed the country; twice they created expectations that were not met. It is necessary — and I think that is very clear today — another way, a path that is a strategy against impoverishment. It is necessary to recover income and the Left Block has engaged in this project, in negotiations with the Socialist Party. We went to the Constitutional Court, which has already been said, so that wages would not be cut. We have accepted the decision of the Constitutional Court, and we respect it, that wages should be returned in 2016. It was to this end that we went to the negotiations and today we face up to a successful goal: wages will be restored in 2016, as the Constitutional Court ordered. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It's hard for the ladies. Members understand when someone gives their face for a measure, takes it to the negotiations and can then present it to the Portuguese people. I wanted to rest the gentlemen. Members, who have come here a number of times to create noise—there is a need to create noise where there is no noise— in particular the overtax, so that there is no doubt or say that the Left Block runs away from any matter raised: the end of the overtax was the subject of dialogue between the PS and the Left Block in the negotiations they had. The Left Block defended the immediate and integral cessation of the overtax. The Socialist Party had another position. There was a divergence in this matter and therefore it did not consist of the agreement. There is, however, the availability, the will, the assurance of the Left Block to work on this matter in the specialty and to improve this measure, with the same spirit of construction, with the same positive spirit that we have had so far, and that is what we will do, because we take our commitments very seriously. Mr President, the best antidote to the noise they want to bring here and to do about this hypothesis of this government is the clarity of the positions. What brings stability to democracy is noise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u77	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u78	What gives stability to democracy is the clarity of positions. It is clear from this that the measures we are presenting are sound. It is this clarity that comes out of solidity to ruin what the right has done to the country in recent years. For poverty, yes, is to ruin; for lack of dignity, yes, it is to ruin; for precariousness is to ruin. And that is our goal: to combat precariousness, to restore income. That is the goal of the Left Block and we are sure that we are here to face up to the commitments we have made. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u79	For a second intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSDs and CDS-PPs are trying to pass on the idea that what is being discussed here today is, in fact, just a matter of dose and rhythm, because everyone wants to return income. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you didn't want to return income. They wanted to permanently cut wages and pensions and were obliged by the Constitutional Court to do the opposite. So the debate here is not between parties who want to do the same thing, it is between parties who want to do the same thing and two parties who were forced to do something that they didn't want and who still don't want to do it just because the Constitution commands and because they have no alternative. The proof that this is how both parties on the right, PSD and CDS-PP look at the return of incomes in a radically different way from the left. We may have our differences, but we all agree, PS, Left Block, PCP and Os Verdes, that income recovery is a necessary condition for the recovery of the Portuguese economy. And what you argue is that the recovery of income will happen if the recovery of the Portuguese economy permits it. They are diametrically opposite positions. For us, income is a necessary condition for the recovery of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u81	Why don't you get everything back once? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u82	We don't do it for mere proclamation. We also do it by proclamation, because we believe in it, but especially because we have looked at what has happened in recent years. When PSD and CDS-PP cut down on income, the Portuguese economy collapsed; when your measures were blocked, the economy recovered. The obligation of everyone is to look at the experience and learn from it, which clearly CDS-PP and PSD did not. We on the left, PS, PCP, Left Block and The Greens, all, even with our differences, converge in this respect: there will be no recovery of the Portuguese economy without recovery of the income of families and pensioners. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and CDS-PP have this idea that « they are not going to ruin now because the Portuguese economy is growing, creating jobs and attracting huge investment ». This proclamation has a problem: it does not fit with reality. The Portuguese economy is stagnant, as shown by the INE in the last quarter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u83	He's here now! And it will continue to decline!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u84	Employment is falling, unemployment is rising and investment is stagnant. [[Calm down, calm down!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u85	We will not ruin anything, we will recover a country that you, in the midst of a great crisis, have sunk and your strategy has already proved unsuccessful. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I was still in a debate yesterday with another State Secretary of the CDS-PP who said to me: « We have downloaded IRC and investment is now growing ». The investment is stagnant, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] He said: "We have made reforms in the labour market and employment... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for some calm. He said: "We have made extraordinary reforms in the labour market and employment is growing." It's not growing, it's falling! « We downloaded the IRC to create a super-attractive environment for investment and it grows huge », said the Secretary of State yesterday and say every day CDS-PP and PSD. I make only one recommendation: look more closely at INE numbers and conclude something that seems obvious. When you try a strategy and it doesn't work, perhaps, it's better to think of an alternative. That is what the Socialist Party and the parties to its left, despite all its differences, converge and that is what we are going to do. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u86	For a second speech, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u87	Now you're going to explain the disappearance of the tax credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u88	Mr President, I will gladly explain, Mr President, but I will also explain other things, since I am in use of my time I can decide what I want to talk about. I well understand the discomfort of Mr. Paulo Sá, I understand the discomfort of the left in a general way, which, in fact, carefully wastes time so as not to have the slightest chance of being called to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u90	If you give us a minute, we'll answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u91	Indeed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you: responsibility does not seem very comfortable to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u92	Very cowardly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u93	The truth is, I've heard a lot about you. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, I just didn't hear anything, or I heard very little, about the PS bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u94	That's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u95	...that, as your partner, I thought I would deserve your primary attention. But after all, they still prefer us. Don't stop being curious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u96	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u97	It seems to me that sometimes we'll be complicating something that's simple. You say: "We take our differences! » The question here is not taking the differences, it is realizing what the consequences are for them to withdraw from the divergences, because I assume them alone can be very interesting from the point of view of the debate between the various parliamentary groups, but from the point of view of the Portuguese, I think that what matters is what will be the pay cuts in January, how will the overtax be in January and what will be the extraordinary measures in January.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u98	Let's get the consequences of the divergences!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u99	And it's precisely...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u100	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u101	Mr President, calm down, I do, but I think that the two parliamentary groups who were shouting and shouting, saying that the President of the Republic was wasting time on the country, could perhaps have taken the time on that very issue. Don't you think? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But, however, Mrs. Mariana Mortagua said that "what takes stability is noise". Mrs. Member, did you remember that it could also be opacity? The honourable Member says 'there is clarity'. But if there is clarity, you will mind answering this simple question: after all, what will happen to the overtax in January 2016? Would you please answer that? This is because if you vote in favour of PS projects as they are, what you call 'a robbery' will happen. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And of two, one : either you are going back or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u102	Half the robbery you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u103	The question here is very simple and it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u104	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u105	With regard to the Socialist Party, Mr. João Galamba said that, although it seems that these three parties are defending gradualism, not; in reality, you are defending gradualism but, in principle, they do not want it and these gentlemen do not advocate gradualism, but in fact, it is what they want.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u106	This is getting confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u107	Look at the weather! Save time to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u108	So basically, we're all here, except for the PS, saying we want the opposite of what we write. Mr President, perhaps that is not the case, because, I see, the accusations that we are defending one thing but, in fact, we want another, I am sorry but I cannot answer them. These are accusations of character that I think do not take place here and I do not want to answer you in the same currency. But, Mr President, there is one thing that I cannot but remind you of: we defend gradualism but not just defend it, we commit ourselves to gradualism. We took this commitment to the elections and he was suffocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u109	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u110	You may not like me to remind you of that, but, despite everything, there are more people who believe in our gradualism than yours. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u111	He continues to explain the mystery of the disappearance of tax credit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u112	Finally, he said: 'These two parties say that they are not going to spoil us now, but the economy already shows signs of slowdown'. Sir, that's true. Unfortunately, the economy has already shown signs of slowing down, and that is why I took care of yesterday, when I asked the PS not to spoil, to talk about the issue of deficit. You are right: in the economy, unfortunately for Portugal, you are already ruining it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u113	Mr. João Galamba, ask for the floor for what effect? You don't have time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u114	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u115	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u116	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to send Mrs Cecilia Meireles a timetable to show that the months of July, August and September, which are the third quarter of 2015, took place before the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u117	The honourable Member will do this and will dispense the Bureau with an unnecessary charge. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, ask for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u118	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u119	What effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u120	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau to provide clarification to the House, in the same manner as Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u121	Mrs Deputy, in order to avoid the so-called abuse of regiment figures, and once you still have time available, you can intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u122	Mr President, I will be able to intervene until I do not spend all the time, of course. But record the difference in treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u123	Madam Member, the Bureau did not know the content of your speech and now you know. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u124	Mr President, I would just like to clarify to the House that I know the timetable, but I am afraid that, after accusations of character, we also have intellectual accusations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u125	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to go into character charges, but I want to go into political accusations. Mrs Cecilia Meireles reminded me of the seriousness — she did not use this expression and perhaps not by chance — of what led to the elections. I would like to remind you of the honourable Member and all the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP on what led to the election campaign and what they did next. In 2011 they took to the election campaign the promise that they would not cut wages or pensions. during your term of office, they brutally cut wages and pensions. in the last election campaign, the deception was another: the overtax. We were at the time when credibility told us that people were going to receive 35% of the surcharge—that was what was going to be returned, the accounts showed that, success was immense. The elections pass, the illusions break, the information comes and what you realize is that they will receive zero. There was someone who denounced this during the election campaign and you continued to ‘knock your foot’, because they needed more votes, they needed to have the front of credibility, saying that ‘no sir, which was precisely what people would eventually be in a position to receive’. This tax credit thing with regard to overtax was a great deal, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the hand of those who didn't want to strictly return anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u127	The Greens vote in favour! Is that a PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u128	in the agreement we made with the Socialist Party, we determined the return of the over-tax to families, not on account of any tax credit, not on account of that, but on account of determined goals. And everyone knows that, which is now being poured out on these proposals that the Socialist Party brings here. Moreover, we answered the return to the penguins of wages, the recovery of wages that the PSD and CDS-PP wanted to make. The PS wanted in two years, but in view of the agreements that have been made, it will be in one year, Mr. This is how and I think it is worth that people have the recovery of their wages in 2016. And why is it important? It is not just to beat the foot, as it is evident, because this recovery of the purchasing power of families is fundamental to leverage our economy and to generate wealth in the country, as it has been demonstrated, in the face of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the past legislature. So this step is fundamental to taking. But the gentlemen are still in your absolute contradiction. They say it has to be gradually, that the recovery of the purchasing power of families has to be fragmented, but for the energy sector it is at an apex! Why do you want to stop contributing to the energy sector? Why? They've never been able to explain. Why does the energy sector want to benefit from the contribution of the energy sector in two years at all? Doesn't the country lack these recipes? Don't you need it? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u130	I'm done now, Mr. President. Or is it because they're beautifying the great economic interest, and that's for a long, very small time? For people, no, it is another whole legislature of wage cuts. Of course, we cannot accept this, and of course, Mr President, we consider that we have also made a good contribution so that this is not the case. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u132	Will you explain the mystery of the disappearance of your proposal's tax credit?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u133	It will explain the disappearance of the CFP in today's debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have seen measures that increase income because today we can do so, but the proposals are different because we are different. We propose less deficit, which is less debt, and debt weighs on the Portuguese purse and also distorts their decisions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u135	But the debt has risen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u136	We refuse to pass accounts on to the future, accounts of sacrifice, because they involve less public services and less sustainability of public service. It is necessary to have a social state that supports Portuguese and sustains itself in the future. [[All right!]] [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u137	They don't laugh because it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u138	We are proposing today a recovery of income which is responsible and will not mortgage our future, the future of Mr. Members on the left and the future of all our children. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u139	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on our agenda, point 2, which consists in the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue a comprehensive and integrated administrative modernization policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Innovation in the public sector ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the PSD and CDS-PP initiative, Mr. Deputy Conceição Bessa Ruão, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u140	Mr President, in my first speech, I would like to congratulate you and all the members of this House, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing them happiness for the legislation that is under way. The XIX Constitutional Government proceeded between 2011 and 2015 to a set of initiatives that have contributed decisively to administrative modernization. The change in the citizen's relationship with the Public Administration is indicated, as assumed in the new Code of Administrative Procedure. Other measures are also highlighted: the deep review of the Citizen's Portal, the Entrepreneur's Balcão, the launch of the Citizen's Map. The same Government created the portal of municipal transparency, which should be extended to the entire Public Administration, and developed the Simplify Program, on the following axes: One time; Digital as Regulatory Rule and Conduct, and also the Participe.pt portal. It developed a wide network of assisted digital assistance, which the OECD has recognized and integrated into all good practices of the Public Administration of the Member States, and recommended. In terms of licensing, he implemented the Zero License and advanced with the simplification of commercial, industrial and environmental licensing. in rationalizing information technologies, created the Strategic Global Plan for Rationalization and Cost Reduction, with information technologies. in promoting the integration and innovation of the public sector, it adopted budgetary and financial stimuli to the integrated action of the Administration, through Portugal 2020. in the context of the policies of proximity and greater efficiency, created the Approximar Program, the program of decentralization of the competences of the state, of voluntary membership, with the municipalities and intermunicipal entities. It should be recalled that some of the most important initiatives carried out by the PSD/CDS coalition government deserved the express and unequivocal support of the PS. For this reason, either by supporting the Government, or in opposition, the parties of the PSD and the CDS believe that they should continue to implement the policies of modernisation and administrative simplification, in a suprasectoral and cross-cutting work to all areas of governance, a position reflected in the draft resolution now before Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u141	Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão, thank you very much for your compliments. To present draft resolution No 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u142	Mr President, I welcome you in this Parliament with the greatest pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal now has a new Prime Minister, who has just taken over. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal also likes to greet the new Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and I am sure that the PS, with the parliamentary support of the parties... [[PSD laughter.]] ... of the PCP and the Left Block, will have a new government for Portugal which will correspond to the desires that the Portuguese have, because they have been very caustic during these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the project we are presenting today also has to do with a whole policy that has not been made in these four years. Our draft resolution, under the heading 'Innovate in the public sector', has as its idea a policy that has to do with an approach to process reengineering or even digital, by default. It is going further than that, it is going beyond that, through innovation in the Public Administration. Today it is necessary to go further. That is also what is already being done at the level of the various countries of the European Union and of the international institutions. We therefore make this recommendation to the Government, to a Government which will also have as Minister Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, who will be responsible for these matters, and which, in fact, is the author of this project, which I am pleased to subscribe to, together with other Members. It is undoubtedly a person who, I am sure, will lead to the implementation of policies and measures to innovate in the public sector and thus contribute decisively to the reduction of context costs and the increase in efficiency of public services. The Public Administration should be able to respond in a simple, integrated and customized way to the demands of citizens and businesses through the most appropriate channels. This is certainly a great challenge, but we must also not forget citizens who do not have access to digital means due to economic shortages or the fact that they are an elderly population with digital iliteracy. We must therefore make policies aimed at concrete reality and also promote progress in the citizens' own relationship with the Public Administration, proactively informing citizens and businesses in order to help meet the obligations they effectively have to carry out. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the public administration cannot ignore the fact that it is the main task to provide answers to citizens and to contribute to a better application of resources and greater competitiveness of the economy, with a view to creating jobs, which we are all aware of, is the main thing for the people. I remember examples like the one in the citizen's card, which gathered the data in a single document and led to the various systems merging to do so. Often, what is involved is not to move into the public administration but to introduce measures, for example, at the process level, alongside the construction of a culture of collaboration that addresses these new challenges and that is able to innovate. But for all this, it is necessary to value the exercise of public functions and to mobilize the collaboration of public officials and society in general. This is precisely a very bad point in these four years. We need to motivate the Public Administration, which is composed of people who can help make changes and implement them in the best way. We need a qualified public administration with the necessary skills, which must be constantly updated, as companies have to do and we need to monitor the cycle of measures that are implemented, until their evaluation by the recipients. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, many times, what happens in Portugal is that it seems that we are always starting again, we always want to start from zero, and with enormous costs at all levels, which is unacceptable! Governments tend to tear apart what has been done, breaking with what exists, and introducing new legislation that they call reforms. It seems that reforming is legislating. Now reforming is not just legislation, as everyone knows or ought to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u143	I would ask you to pay attention to time, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u144	Yes, Mr. President. rather than progressing in what exists, what is done is to legislate, not taking into account all existing laws, with serious damage to economic agents and citizens in general. And we have to say that in the last four years, despite some initiatives, continuity has not been ensured and the dynamics that have resulted with the Simplex program have been lost, involving all ministries and more than 100 municipalities, in a common strategic vision. We have lost a culture of evaluation of current measures, a culture of involvement of public officials in this change and it is to highlight the services that have even had good results. New legislation is introduced without abrogating the existing legislation and we all have responsibilities for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u145	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u146	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying only that the Legal Regime of Access and Exercise of Trade, Services and Restoration activities has revoked almost all of the Zero License regime. Now, it was a clear backwardness that was not admissible, and there was also a backwardness at the level of the citizen stores. I conclude by saying that today we are starting a new time of change, with the takeover of this new government, a time of hope and policies based on a strategic vision for the Portuguese. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to this draft resolution being approved by you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your compliments too. Mr Francisco Mendes da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I apologize and some tolerance for the fragility of my voice, the victim of the evils that the time does to health. The resolution we are bringing here today for approval is for this House to recommend to the Government the deepening of a process of modernization of the Public Administration, which, fortunately, has an ancient history. Its importance has been repeatedly understood by successive majorities and by successive executives. This is indeed a matter for which there are no divisions between the parties represented here, which we may consider to be insurmountable. There are certainly differences, and there will always be, in terms of ways to promote administrative modernization. However, the pursuit of this objective is obviously not called into question by anyone. It should be noted that this sharing of convictions among political actors also results from the sensitivity that everyone has about the broad consensus that exists in Portuguese society on this matter. The modernization and facilitation of the relationship of individuals with the Public Administration is permanently claimed by the Portuguese. They are the ones who daily assess, with direct personal knowledge, what runs better or worse in that relationship.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u150	In most cases, what the Portuguese require of the Public Administration is not positive benefits but simply that it does not complicate their lives beyond what is reasonable, in the name of the guarantee of the public interest. The Portuguese require the State to constantly deepen the processes of simplification, digitisation, deburocratization and deregulation. The resolution we propose here calls on the Government to follow this path and urges it to follow this path in the specific areas where administrative modernization is more pressing: in the agileization of business initiative, private investment, in the name of personal achievement and economic growth of the country; in the approximation of services to people, in the name of mobility and flexibility of care, in the fight against desertification of the territory; and in the decentralization of the Administration, in the name of the realization of a principle of subsidiarity, of linkage with local authorities, which is a basic condition for the State to be closer to the needs of Portuguese people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the great importance of administrative modernization was institutionally recognized in the organic of the XX Constitutional Government, through the creation of a ministry dedicated to the subject. It was recognized, therefore, that administrative modernization has its own centrality, which deserved and deserves the raising and empowerment of the folder. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u151	It was also recognized that there should be those in the Executive who have the institutional relevance and the political weight needed to promote an integrated policy of a single sense to be imposed on a cross-cutting basis. We must also note that the Socialist Party has taken the same option in the formation of the XXI Constitutional Government, which only underlines, in our view, the idea that we have already conveyed here with regard to the great sharing of convictions that we believe exists on this subject. We are therefore sure that this consensus exists and is vital, so we have objective and well founded expectations that this proposal can obtain the majority reception of the House. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u152	I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not surprising that PSD and CDS have scheduled an initiative on administrative modernization, when these same parties, in government, have done everything not to modernize the state but to destroy public services. We do not forget the closure of unconcentrated services of the central administration in the area of productive sectors, the closure of schools, health stations, hospital services and valences, the posts of the TTCs and even the extinction of fragesias. All in the name of the proximity and efficiency of public services, see well! essentially, PSD and CDS bring nothing new to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, Mrs Bessa Ruão's own intervention confirmed this, it was a description of what were the policies of the CDS and the PSD in the government in relation to these matters: to concentrate, close, destroy and privatize. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Moreover, what they bring is the deepening of their political option to reduce and privatize the provision of public service, as well as the degradation of their quality. More: they insist on the perspective of the deresponsibility of the State, either by the provision of the public service, which is its responsibility, pushing it to the authorities and companies, and on the guarantee of the universality of the social functions of the State, with the ongoing process of municipalization in the areas of education, health and social action, while adopting a set of policies that led to the financial asphyxiation of the authorities themselves. To talk about administrative modernization, in our opinion, is also to talk about — and we must talk about it itself — of the State's own administrative reorganization, for its best organization, to provide better service, including here also the administrative regions, as provided for in our Constitution, with all that is happening there, and not carry out any adaptation of existing structures. The effective administrative modernisation of the State must not only take into account the use that new technologies provide but must also go further. The strengthening of the public administration close to the population is essential; the guarantee of the provision of quality public services, taking full account of its responsibilities and competences; the valorisation of workers at the professional, social and remuneration levels, contrary to what PSD and CDS did while they were in the government, which was to destroy public employment and withdraw rights. We also have a more efficient public administration, which eliminates the increasing regional asymmetries. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u154	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor now, also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The motions for resolutions presented here deal a lot with technological issues and I would like to call to the first line of concern the human aspect of administrative modernization, a human aspect that has much to do with the culture that lives within the Public Administration. It is necessary, we defend, implement a culture of service to the citizen, view public servants as public servants and fight, replace, the culture inherited from the times of the dictatorship of authority, of prepotence in relation to people. It is necessary to change the attitude of distrust, which assumes that the citizen is a liar and therefore has to prove everything he declares. This culture of authoritarianism and pre-potency was reinforced in the previous legislature by the parties who proclaimed themselves here followers of traditions. In order to improve the quality of the service it is also necessary to value public servants and to value them in paid terms — and how much they were punished by the previous government, as if they were the great culprits of the country's evils! Open... It is necessary to value them so that they feel worthy and to perform in accordance with the demands of these times and with quality. As regards the proposal of this dignification, the measure previously presented here naturally comes from this direction. I would also like to question the segregation between citizens and entrepreneurs, which was the rule in the speech of the previous government, entrepreneurs such as the supra-cidads or « citizens of added value ». We defend equality in treatment. Companies are certainly important, like all other entities — public persons, associations, cooperatives — but there are no companies without citizens. We do not agree with the policies of 'gold ways' for some and the'stone path' for the generality of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u157	We agree with the principles announced here by the two motions for resolutions: reduction of bureaucracy, faster and more effective response to people, innovation, more transparency and efficiency, more simplification. in the field of principles, it is easy to agree — we all want peace in the world and that children do not go hungry... however, I want to leave here two concrete situations that are likely to be major improvements, simplification of life for citizens and savings of costs for the public record. The first case has to do with the use of free software, open source software in Public Administration, which has a great way to go, despite all the legislative changes that have occurred in the past. The greatest use of free software has the potential to generate large savings for the public record. It will also have an impact on external accounts, because software licenses are generally money coming out of the country and it is a stage, par excellence, to promote cooperation between the various public services entities, which is both required in the proposals presented here, and to share experiences between these various departments of the Public Administration. I want to make it clear here that free software is not an ideological issue. Countries such as Spain or the United Kingdom have well-defined strategies to promote the use of open source software and are certainly not governed by left-wing forces. Another situation where there is much work to be done has to do with public procurement platforms. The public procurement platform is an intermediary in the relationship between the suppliers of goods and services and the State. For a provider to dialogue with the State you have to hire a service with an electronic platform. A new market opportunity has been created, competition has been created, but we have an absurd situation and for people to understand better I can make a parallel with the telephone communications market. Let's imagine that we had eight telephone operators but it would not be possible to make calls from one operator to the other. Suppliers, in order to talk to the State, with the various services, as each service adopts different platforms, have to walk with eight mobile phones in the purse, in order to be able to compete with the different contests. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] It is necessary to unify the platforms and place them to communicate with each other in order to simplify this relationship between the private and the state. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u158	Mr Bruno Dias, Member of the CFP, signed up for an intervention in the time still available. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already stressed the importance of an administrative modernization policy which not only takes advantage of new technologies but, above all, promotes the quality of public services, their proximity to the people and the valorisation of workers. What is needed is more and better public service and not a kind of fun maneuver that serves as a pretext for policies of deresponsibility, privatization and closure of services. And we reinforce this idea from the very beginning about the concept of the spaces and shops of the citizen and this conversation of the assisted digital service, in which the right insists. It is unacceptable fraud and dangerous irresponsibility. There must be a relationship of transparency and democratity between the State and companies, in respect of the principle of equality of all before the law and we cannot have the State to close services, to distance itself from populations and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and then to delegate functions and competences to other private entities, including post offices, meanwhile privatized and handed over to multinationals, and through them to relate to MPMEs. This is not administrative modernization, it is the degradation of democracy itself. In addition, it is important to remember that, with the privatisation of TTCs, it has become a private company to administer a critical system for the functioning of the State and the economy, which is just the postal code. However, if we consider information and communication technologies and rationalizations at this level, we have the central issue of effective control over computer data, their storage and processing, refusing policies of delivery to private interests, possibly foreign, uncertain destination clouds, etc. etc. See Refer Telecom, whose servers are sensitive information from the tax administration and that some want to turn into quick gains into an operation we cannot afford. Finally, on references to interoperability, cooperation between back offices, the need of the State to make use of information already available, etc. , they are surely consensual principles. To highlight also the crucial aspect of semantic interoperability, standards and metadata, appropriately referred to in the PS resolution project and that if it was in the resolution part, it would be very welcome, even better. But by hearing and reading these words, after so long, with all that has been said and what has been done, we cannot forget the purgatory that thousands and thousands of Portuguese continue to cross every time they try to sell or deliver a simple car, with the incredible processes involving IMTT, finance, authorities, and processes to drag themselves over for years, with so much time and so much money lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u161	I shall finish, Mr President, with this sentence: it is appropriate to say "well pray Brother Tomás"! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u162	For a second speech, also on this item on the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Hortense Martins and the Socialist Party, in fact, who cannot tear and start all over again are you because they will follow the policies that the previous government has outlined. And I'll prove it. Approximar programme: 350 units installed, tendingly for the 1200 public services available. What does the PS propose? « New single counters, where it will be possible to deal with various everyday matters, according to the need of users ». What's different? What's new?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u164	And what is history? Try selling the car to see what happens to him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u165	The Simplifying Programme, One See: « single presentation of documents held by the State», says the previous Government. It says the PS : « implement the fundamental principle that citizens and businesses do not have to provide documents or restore information already made available ». What's different and what's new, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? As for Participe.gov.pt, public participation portal of citizens, what does the PS say? « Concrete the project‘ Leave your idea here, through the electronic platform’. What's new? Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Open... in the interoperability of the systems, the previous government said: « Progressive interministerial integration of services, e.g. use of legal consulting, judicial sponsorship, strategic and economic planning, inspection and financial control ». What does the PS say? 'Promoting the sharing of services and resources, setting up specialised competence centres that provide technical support to ministries'. What's new, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? in promoting the integration of the public sector and innovation, the previous government said: « It has adopted financial stimuli for the integration of local and central administration ». What does the PS say? « The creation of a public fund exchange possibly co-financed by Community funds for innovative projects in the public sector ». Finally, as far as training for workers is concerned, the former Government said : « In a search logic and profile of employees ». What does the PS say? « The adoption of a training system, taking into account service needs, in particular through protocols with higher education institutions », which is what we have already done under the Apex programme. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, this is why they have broken and set up a platform on the left of this Parliament! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u166	Mrs. Members, the discussion of draft resolutions 11 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), we will generally pass on the appreciation of the projects of lein. 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ), 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs) and regulates access to replacement pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ), 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( PAN) and 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the eligibility conditions and the whole of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( The Greens ). I'll give the floor to the ladies. Members to present the diplomas by order of entry. First of all, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are returning today to the topic of assisted drug procreation (WFP). Law No. 32 / 2006, which we again discussed today, represented, when approved, a decisive step in this matter of WFP, regulating the use of thousands of families to the techniques and answers that scientific research has offered them to overcome the barriers that infertility placed on the family constitution. however, until 2006, several questions remained unanswered, or with inadequate answers. Despite numerous attempts at legislative intervention in the previous legislature, Portugal continues to stop at that time, under a law that, at its time of approval, no longer fully corresponded to what was asked of it. The National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products has repeatedly requested the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, suggesting that Parliament review the subject and, in fact, respond to the aspirations of citizens and citizens who ask us to change the law. Otherwise, let us see: firstly, it is urgent to consider the appreciation of the principle of equality, autonomy and individual freedom in the construction of the legal regime of WFP. It is therefore essential to remove the rules which today hinder access to assisted reproduction and which do so in an unjustifiable and discriminatory way, maintaining walls which still last week the Assembly of the Republic has collapsed, with regard to equal access to parenthood. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Let us be absolutely clear about this. This is what we are talking about: eliminating discriminatory obstacles that see access to LDCs for single women and couples of the same sex. That is what it is essential to implement, it is this extension of beneficiaries, so that everyone, freely and clearly, can choose to use the answers that science offers to everyone and to everyone. in a free and democratic society, guided by respect for individual freedom, it is essential to commit ourselves to defending the fundamental rights of all. And with particular impact on the right to free development of personality and on the right to family constitution, in its multiple and multiple manifestations. That is why this solution is late, and that is why this solution is also necessary today. We therefore propose to revise the law, in order to provide that WFP is recognized as a complementary technique of procreation and that, consequently, the requirements relating to the civil status or sexual orientation of beneficiaries are deleted. We stress once again that there is no doubt: it is not this debate to discuss or reorganize the supply of LDCs techniques in the National Health Service, which is a distinct debate and is not what brings us here today, where we only discuss what, in the light of the Portuguese legal order, should or should not be considered lawful, should or should not be considered permitted. It is this dimension of the individual realization of the happiness of many thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese who must call on us and guide us in how we will debate — and how we will approve this legislative amendment. It is not possible to find any justification for denying a single woman the decision-making of her family life, and the minor idea that she needs to be married should be removed in order to be allowed to take an option at the place of procreation. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is not possible to find any justification for disqualifying same-sex couples according to their sexual orientation, preventing them from accessing the ability to carry out their family projects. As I said last week we broke down an obstacle; I hope that this week we will contribute to bring down another one, which still remains, in this very place. We must suppress the idea that a woman alone is less citizen than the other, who is married, and therefore has less rights. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The Prime Minister, recently positioned, of Canada — not that of Portugal, who I also welcome – stressed that we are in 2015 and there are certain things that must be evident. And it seems to me that it must be obvious that the persistence of a debate, almost medieval, in which we question whether or not the woman is a holder of the soul, whether or not she is a holder of rights, whether or not she holds the ability to decide her future, by herself, without being protected by a man. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this week, when we point out the Day of Combating Violence against Women, we also have to recognize that there is also violence when the law determines that there are rights holders that are smaller than others. Therefore, restoring freedom, autonomy and equality will be through this step that we can also respect women, it will be through this step that we can respect all, once again, regardless of sex, regardless of the civil state, regardless of sexual orientation, because everyone has to be able to access the family constitution. It is true that in this debate we will also be able to address another issue, on a subject which is also important and that this debate will take place, which concerns the pregnancy of substitution, and the Socialist Party will have the opportunity to take a decision on the subject, but once again we pronounce our usual openness and willingness to, in good faith, build a legal regime that gives answers to all this. This is an area of convergence between science and human reason and is an area in which the right cannot be disconnected from these answers. Today, we can reopen to everyone and to all the doors that April has opened and, in this case, we can open to everyone and to all the doors that science has opened. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u168	To request clarification, Mrs. Angela Guerra enrolled herself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u169	Mr President, Mr Delgado Alves, I am sorry to have to say this, but I believe that this time the PS has not done a serious legislative work. How is it possible, I ask, that you have not included in your bill this time the recommendations of the National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products? This is at least two questions: the issue of the fate of sedentary embryos and the question of avoiding interruptions of pregnancy after 10 weeks due to the occurrence of chromosome x-related diseases ( and Article 7. o, paragraph 3 ). They also do not incorporate, as they have incorporated in their previous projects, the measures that the working group had already incorporated in relation to technical improvements, which are quite justified. Then, in my view, there is something perfectly unbelievable in your bill: the discriminatory character it incorporates. How is it possible, Mr President, that these techniques, in your view, are only possible for women? Oh, my God! So with the men married to each other, male homosexual couples, and the men alone? It's true, they're not in your bill! Why? Because you, in the view of blinking your eye at the vote of the Communist Party, decided to remove the article concerning maternity replacement. So I ask you: how do you resolve this issue technically? Gender equality and equal treatment of gender equality was a costly issue for you. It's not anymore. I would also like to ask you a question on the issue of the whole of the beneficiaries of these techniques and on the amendment of the accessibility criteria. Certainly there are limited capacities in public centres—and you are creating new expectations for new couples. So, I ask: Is there more response capacity? Have you already tried to ensure this response capacity? Or are we marketing assisted drug procreation, delivering these treatments only to the private? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u170	In reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u171	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I thank you very much for the questions you have raised. I want to be clear about the matter and the project presented. The Socialist Party presented exactly the same initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u172	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u173	... concerning the extension of beneficiaries, which was presented here in the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u174	There were two of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u175	It is that the question of motherhood of substitution and the pregnancy of substitution, which was dealt with by the working group and which included the cooperation of the Socialist Party today, has today, in this debate, the willingness of the Socialist Party to welcome and accompany it, in the stages following the legislative procedure, and to incorporate it, without any difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u176	Ah! But he's not there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u177	The question is, only and exclusively, this: the Socialist Party has committed itself to bringing back the dimension of the fight against discrimination here underlying — and there too, I would point out, the project is not exclusive and it is clear that it refers to citizens and beneficiaries. And we have all the opening to clarify everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u178	But he's not there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u179	I would also like to say again: today, the debate only heals what is lawful in the Portuguese legal order; it is not the debate on access, the context and the place where such access will be made, for which we will once again have all the availability. And we look forward to your collaboration in this effort. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u180	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regulation of the use of assisted reproductive techniques was an important step for the country—I think we recognize it unanimously—and, above all, a very important step for all those who, wanting to realize the dream of parenthood, could not do it in any other way. Recognizing the importance of the law on LDCs techniques, we must also recognize the limitations of the same law. We are talking in particular about the limitations on access to these techniques. They have already been identified in the past and on them there has already been a public discussion, which was intense and extensive. It is now time that, recognizing the limitations of the law, we also recognize the urgency of changing that law. It is to this urgency that the Left Block responds with its project. Currently, single or widowed women, for example, or, largely, women without a partner or partner, are prevented from accessing LDCs techniques. Currently, a woman who constituted a family with another woman cannot, by legal impediment, resort to LDCs techniques. Currently, a woman who, due to absence, injury or disease in the uterus, cannot take a pregnancy until her term, is prevented by law from having a parenthood project. In all these cases, there is discrimination that cannot be accepted. Let us look at specific cases. Certainly many and many of us had the opportunity to see a report on two women, Marcia and Ana, married to each other, prevented from carrying out their project of kinship. Impeded, because your country, Portugal, does not recognize this right, which is a legitimate right. These women were forced to cross the border and flee to the law of their country because, in their country, Portugal, their rights were not full, nor were they fully recognized. Or we can talk about the case of 29-year-old Joana, who has no uterus, as a consequence of a syndrome she is carrying. Joana has the project of being a mother, but she cannot because her country, Portugal, does not allow the pregnancy of substitution. He does not recognise the right to have a biological child; he does not recognize either the project or the dream, even though they may be possible. These are cases of despair, suspended lives, postponed projects. They are cases that have been past and present in our country, but that cannot continue to have future. The Left Block presents its bill in the name of this new future: a future where women's rights are full. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State and the law cannot continue to allow discrimination. The State and the law cannot say that the project of kinship of a woman is only possible if it is protected by a man. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The State and the law cannot limit women's rights on the basis of their sexual orientation. That barrier should have been overcome a long time ago in our society. But there is good news: today may be the day we overcome this barrier. The National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences refers to the following: « (... ) The Constitution gives the State the responsibility to protect the family and regulate the least developed country, and it is no longer, in the first place, that such indemnity determines or requires that the State is obliged to protect only a particular type of family(...) ». We follow what the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences says. That's why we want you and me. Members, remove legal impediments and ensure full access by all women to a parenthood project, which is more than legitimate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems are more than identified, the discussions have already been made in the past. Now is the time to take the missing step. The same Assembly of the Republic which still broke down discrimination last week in the case of adoption must now again have to be the Assembly of the Republic of Equality and again tread the path of equality. The Left Block project puts its feet on that path. We therefore advocate the extension of LDCs' techniques for all women, without discrimination and on an equal footing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know that enlargement of LDCs' techniques is a fair and fundamental measure, but it is still insufficient to respond to all cases. We also want to respond to women who, due to disease, injury or absence of the uterus, are unable to complete a pregnancy. Therefore, we propose the recognition and legalization of the replacement pregnancy for these cases. We follow the position of the National Council of WFP, which is clear on this issue: « It is unfair and disproportionate to bar the possibility of having children who are unable to procreate in verified and justified medical situations where they have contributed nothing to their situation ». This discussion on the pregnancy of substitution was made, deepened and resolved in recent years. Mr. As and Mr. Members will remember-CL - it will be said that in the previous legislature projects of various parties, the Block, PS and PSD were discussed, where the pregnancy of substitution was anticipated. They will also remember that a working group on LDCs was formed, where an extended consensus was reached so that the pregnancy of substitution was allowed for these specific cases, that this work was done and that the discussion was held. More than two years have been invested in this working group. We have reached conclusions, particularly regarding the pregnancy of substitution, and there is no reason to throw this work out and start all of the zero. This work and this discussion have created enormous expectations in society that cannot now be disappointed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the time, now is the time to complete this work, the time to close an open discussion for years, the time to respond to women with suspended lives and deferred dreams. It is now time to ensure full equality and rights for all women in our country. It is time to say that we no longer need to cross borders, that we no longer need to postpone, that we no longer need to hide from the law, that we can already realize the dream of being mothers and that we can do so in your country. Now is the time for us to no longer close our eyes to reality. This is the time to take another step that will change, for the better, the lives of many people, of many families, of different types of families. This is the time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not let you escape. by the Left Block, these rights will no longer be postponed. We won't let the moment slip. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u182	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let's talk about women. We're talking about married women of the same sex, single women, widowed women, divorced women. We are talking about women who, just because they are not married or actually united with a man, are forbidden to use assisted reproductive techniques and are deprived of their autonomy and their sexual and reproductive rights. We speak of people who move to other countries in search of services that meet the realization of their desires and rights of kinship, solutions that involve a huge financial effort, which are originating social exclusions and which involve the postponement of so many dreams. We talk about people who are close to us, we talk about families, we talk about our families, we talk about our friends. We are talking about people who are here, sitting in these chairs and sitting in the galleries of Parliament. We talk about people who are not considered equal before the law and we will return that equality to them. That is what we intend to do with this legislative proposal: to end discrimination in the law again and to take another major step in the fight against violence, sexism and homophobia. The opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and the declarations of Rui Nunes, on the date of President of the Portuguese Association of Bioethics, and Eurico Reis, on the date of President of the National Council of Assisted Medicine Processing, shows that the current legislation discriminates against women according to sexual orientation, disregarding individual autonomy and freedoms and putting in question fundamental rights. In other words, the current legislation in this area values a particular type of family and rejects other parenthood projects. We are therefore faced with a clear case of discrimination in access to the techniques of LDCs permitted by the law currently in force, which, as such, should be amended and improved in order to withdraw the criteria for access to the techniques of LDCs based on sexual orientation and on the civil status of those who benefit from them, putting an end to discrimination incompatible with the principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, to change the subsidiary scope of these techniques, defining them as complementary to procreation and withdrawing the obligation of proof of infertility, adapting the law to the protection of reproductive rights and fundamental rights, to require only informed consent, majority and absence of prohibition or inactivatement by psychic anomaly and to regulate the determination of parenthood based on the extension of the scope of recipients. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of visibility and human rights, which cannot be postponed again! [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u184	Also for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 32 / 2006 regulates the techniques for the production of assisted medicinal products and constitutes a very relevant regime. Its practical effects are evident. On the basis of this regime, many families have seen a dream of desired parenthood projects. However, the same law leaves many families outside the possibility of carrying out this project of desired kinship to the extent that it establishes a restrictive norm and a clearly discriminatory norm. The restrictive standard is subject to the conditions of eligibility for LDC techniques insofar as they are considered only as a subsidiary method of procreation, linked only to cases of infertility, treatment of serious disease or risk of disease transmission. The discriminatory rule is in line with the beneficiaries of LDCs'techniques, which can only be married persons or live in a de facto union and only if couples are made up of people of different sex. These restrictive and discriminatory guidelines of the current Act No. 32/2006 form a regime that rejects the autonomy of the option and the individual freedoms of women, as well as a differentiated treatment of women according to their marital status or sexual orientation; single women, divorced women, widows cannot benefit from the techniques of LDCs. As if a woman could only be entitled to full rights if she had the support of a husband. Similarly, this law only accepts that they are beneficiaries of the techniques of matrimonial LDCs made up of people of different sex. Now, as there is not only a family model, but, yes, several and several family models, this discrimination currently contained in the law is not acceptable. These impediments contained in Law No 32 / 2006 still result in discrimination on the basis of the economic situation of women, insofar as those who have economic power to do so may use the techniques of LDCs in other countries and those who are not subject to failure to carry out a project of parenthood. Thus, in order to improve the current LDC technology regime, the Greens are seeking, through this draft law that they present to the Assembly of the Republic, to give it a sense of justice and equality, proposing, first, that the LDC techniques be considered as a complementary method of procreation and, second, that the beneficiaries do not restrict themselves only to couples and that, within the couples, there is no discrimination because of the sexual orientation of their members. The Greens took into account the recommendations of the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products and, through the proposed legislative initiative, seek to ensure that science and its advances, which are crucial to humanity, are put at the service of achieving and promoting the greatest number of people's happiness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the Greens vote in other discussions on this matter: we have voted in favour of the extension of the beneficiaries of LDCs' techniques and also proposals for surrogate motherhood. in this discussion, The Greens understood to go further and also present, for discussion in the field of specialty, a bill that contributes to put concrete proposals on the table so that this discussion is always more enriching. We therefore think that we have made a positive contribution to this discussion. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u186	Also for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues that deserve our attention today — the extension of access to assisted reproductive techniques and the motherhood of substitution — involve controversial matters ranging from ethics to science and law, involve enormous complexity and we are not indifferent in any way. We do this debate, as we have already done others, in respect for the democratic diversity of opinions, without moral judgements from third parties, which is not for us equal to the absence of a moral and ethical vision for the exercise of politics, and not rejecting our values and convictions. We believe, in fact, that is what the Portuguese are waiting for from their electors. in these matters, there are at stake legitimate personal aspirations, to which, as I have already said, we are not indifferent, and there are also issues of interest to a new being — until now, strangely not mentioned in this debate, being himself, this new being, the most fragile and vulnerable in this process — interest that has to be duly guarded. This debate cannot be held, it cannot be presented draft laws and it cannot be alluded to—as I have said strangely—to the interests and dignity of the children to be generated, as if they were a hidden or minor part of this whole process. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Respect for the exercise of autonomy and individual freedom, already so spoken here, in the conception of the CDS and supported in ethically consistent and sustained thought, cannot be carried out in an absolute manner and must be harmonized with the common good and with the good of others, always taking into account the results of this process. in these matters, we reject any kind of avant-garde or social experimentalism and we believe it is essential to harmonise the interests of couples with the rights of the child born, in particular the right to their genetic heritage, which is provided for in Article 26 ( 3 ). that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, i.e. the right to their identity. For us, the rights of one or the other do not assert themselves against the rights of others or others. The fundamental right of family protection must be respected and articulated with the supreme values of the dignity of the human being and the right to life, which are, in fact, the true epicenter of all rights, freedoms and guarantees. The superiority of these values and the countless prospects that close make the regulation of a subject likely to collide extraordinary advances in science and knowledge with the inviolability of human life and the dignity of the embryo particularly complex. In the light of this framework, and assuming a balanced view of this technique and theme, we continue to understand that assisted drug procreation will not be a technique to trivialize. due to the sensitivity and caution with which the assisted drug procreation should be considered, we believe that it should be kept reserved for cases, in fact, already contained in the law. For us, there is a limitation that is based on a fundamental principle around this debate: the best interests of the child. in this sense, and given the best interest of the child, some limits that seem to us to be those with which we continue to agree. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the legal possibility of resorting to pregnancy of substitution, like what happened at the time of the general vote of previous initiatives of BE, PS and PSD in the past legislature, the CDS-PP is clearly against. We understand that the discussion of this topic requires tolerance and understanding from all sides. All Members have an individual responsibility, but they also have a collective responsibility as legislators, the responsibility to legislate not for individual cases and always aware of all the consequences that will result from resolutions produced in Parliament, not introducing new forms of discrimination or opening Pandora's boxes with consequences of dubious contours. A debate is required on this subject that takes into account what is now scientific evidence enshrined on the relationship between mother and child, what is happening over nine months in intrauterine life, on the ties that are then established and on the consequences of this period in the future life of the child and the woman, confident that the uterus is not a mere incubator. The possibility of resorting to substitution pregnancy, although in restricted and attentive cases, seems to us that it can start from a generous intention, but with unforeseeable consequences and contours, as I have already said, imprecise. We understand that it is essential to always equalize the different values and principles involved in this discussion. in this case, we have only one certainty: that of the difficulties of people who want to have children and cannot, of their legitimate and attentive desire, but not properly a right, to be a father and to be a mother. This is the only certainty, everything else is doubt. We have doubts about ensuring the preservation of the best interests of the child, we have doubts about safeguarding the rights of the replacement pregnant woman, we have doubts about the consequences for this mother to have to abdicate a child, a child who has developed within her for nine months and we have insurmountable doubts as to how, in cases of dispute, to reconcile the interests of the three parties — child, child, child replacement pregnant and biological parents. There is also a general legal doubt as to the revocability of the contract. What if the couple wanted to unilaterally cancel the contract or consider, for example, that the replacement pregnant woman is not having healthy behaviors, and could put the health of the child who already considers her? Even by punishing this situation, is the underlying problem solved? How is the question solved if the child is born with birth defects or acquired during childbirth? There are many and many questions and, as you see, we have no doubt about a matter in which others seem to have all the assurances. How can we, legislators, ensure that this child who is to be generated under the protection of the State with the responsibility of the legislator is not just an object of controversy, legal problems and dispute in court? For this bench, it is not the lack of money that makes this contract morally and socially acceptable, especially for the child. Ladies and gentlemen. Members — and I am concluding — like what happened in the past Parliamentary Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP believes that the Left Block initiative does not answer the issues that we have listed here, nor are scientific, ethical and legal recommendations that are unsuspected by credible entities. The subject of human suffering and happiness is of concern to the CDS-PP and we are surely interested in everyone. However, we understand that it cannot be achieved by asserting individual rights in an absolute way and ignoring the most vulnerable in this whole process, the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u188	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u189	I really am concluding, Mr President. The legal issues raised here contain enormous reservations, huge doubts. I end as I began: we affirm our convictions and values, we respect the diversity of opinions, not assuming any attitude of moral superiority or judging the intention of any of the parties. For all this, we will reject the bills that are under discussion today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u190	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of the law in 2006, which regulates the use of assisted medical procreation techniques, was a huge step forward for which the CFP contributed decisively. It was a civilizational advance in terms of sexual and reproductive rights and medicine and opened new perspectives on the technical and scientific aspects, with new possibilities in the field of research and innovation. from the point of view of progress, a new opportunity was opened to improve people's health and well-being. We make a very positive assessment of the application of the law, despite the need for improvements, and we can also say that the adoption of this law has brought about a huge social, cultural and knowledge development that we greatly value. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the enormous progress that the law has allowed, we find that, almost a decade ago, it has not yet been fully accomplished. There are still families who, while meeting the requirements, do not have access to assisted reproductive techniques. in recent years, it has emphasized the option of disinvestment in the social functions of the State, particularly in the National Health Service, followed by the PSD / CDS government, which has materialized in the budget cuts and in the professional and social devaluation of health professionals, leading to the early exit of many. There is a great deal of difficulty in accessing drug procreation techniques assisted in our country, due to the reduced response capacity of public assisted drug breeding centres, aggravated by the increase in demand for public service due to the deterioration of economic conditions. The growing economic difficulties of families are also preventing them from continuing treatment, leaving it because of the high burdens that they will have to take, for example, at the cost of medicines. The distribution of assisted public reproductive centers is asymmetric in the country. For example, the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Alentejo and Algarve regions do not have a single public centre. In addition to limiting accessibility to drug breeding techniques assisted by the economic conditions of families, there is a greater influx to public centres in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley. Although it is in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley that waiting lists for access to assisted drug procreation have more expression, there are waiting lists in other centers as well. Data found at the beginning of this calendar year showed us that the waiting lists were six, seven months at the Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho Hospital Center, 18 months at the Lisbon North Hospital Center, 10 months at the Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central and 12 months at the Garcia de Orta Hospital. We all know that as time passes and age increases, the probability of success of techniques decreases. We could not ignore this reality in this debate, nor fail to mention that a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic was adopted, resulting from the initiative of the CFP, which recommends strengthening the capacity of public drug breeding centres assisted with coverage by the national territory and the allocation of human and technical resources to provide adequate response to needs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative initiatives aimed at changing the law of assisted medical procreation that we are discussing today are essentially going in the same direction: extending the techniques of drug procreation assisted to all women regardless of their sexual orientation and civil status. The Left Block also proposes the regulation of replacement pregnancy in case of preventing pregnancy due to absence of uterus, injury or disease of this organ. To make it clear in this debate, we have already stated and reiterated that we refuse to discuss this subject on the basis of what is natural. Our appreciation of the proposals under discussion is entirely dissociated from any consideration of the design and model of the family. So much so that, for a long time, we have presented the proposal for women who are alone and have a diagnosis of infertility to be able to access assisted reproductive techniques. And so much so that, even last week, we went along with initiatives that make it possible for couples to adopt the same sex; We do not have an absolute and closed position on matters that are constantly evolving and related to the dynamics of society itself. However, the proposed changes imply a change of understanding about the nature and purpose of assisted reproductive techniques, no longer being a subsidiary method of reproduction and becoming an alternative and/or complementary method of reproduction. For us, this is the fundamental issue and it is the question that raises doubts. Assisted drug procreation techniques have developed over decades to respond to infertility problems. And it is true that the current law allows an exception that is linked to the possibility of resorting to these techniques to avoid the transmission of serious diseases to descendants. That is, it is used to solve health problems. When drafting the law, the subsidiarity of the use of drug procreation techniques was based on the principle of non- instrumentalization of human beings and their reproductive organs, and that is the criterion that has been maintained. As for the pregnancy of substitution, although we recognize the effort and progress in some concrete aspects within the working group created for the purpose of the previous legislation, there are also some doubts, in particular with the specificities of this technique. Replacement management has implications that cannot be ignored and that require further reflection. It is that in this technique there is the intervention of a third person, that is, there is another woman who intervenes deeply in the pregnancy process, which introduces a set of potential conflicts and ethical issues that have to be considered. The Left Block initiative also presents a set of proposals for improving the current legal framework resulting from constraints found with the law itself on the ground, in particular the issue of the elimination of surplus embryos at the end of a given period, which gives us no objection. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that there are many questions that continue to be raised, to which we are not indifferent and that, in the face of the doubts raised, it is not possible to affirm a definitive position, and further discussion is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u192	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u193	We therefore affirm our full willingness to deepen this debate, to deepen our collective reflection and also to deepen reflection with associations, with entities and with the academic and scientific environment. We understand that, in the field of expertise, there will certainly be an opportunity to carry out this work, which will have our commitment. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u194	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are debating is not compatible with the imposition of values in an authoritative way, but with the proposal of each human being's autonomy of thought and in accordance with the legal provisions governing the exercise of citizenship. Procreation is a pressing theme of our day, because it is indispensable to the survival of the species and it is a fundamental right of the individual, without ever losing sight of the core of the demographic issue, which, as we all know, is a priority issue, which is why the previous PSD/CDS government has put it at the heart of political debate. The main objective of WFP and Law No. 32/2006 was, and is, to solve infertility or sterility problems of couples who could not be satisfied with their legitimate desire to have biological children and to ensure a offspring. However, the evolution of our society is permanent and, after some years on the entry into force of this law, it was considered that this issue needed to be reconsidered. Despite the plurality of views of our parliamentary bench, it was attempted that the focus of the work should focus on the primacy of the defence and last safeguard of human life. We also considered that, following several impulses given since 2009 by the National Council of WFP, the PSD could not deny its contribution to a reflection on this matter. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was proposed that the general principles of Law No 32/2006 should remain with regard to the principle that LDCs techniques constitute only a subsidiary therapeutic method of procreation and not an alternative procedure for natural reproduction. in the same sense, in fact, had already pronounced the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. from here comes two important corollaries, then presented by the PSD in its project, and which referred to, consistently and significantly, the following: this technique, the LDCs, can only be used to treat a disease and not to circumvent the natural effects of voluntary sterility and we understand it only as legitimate when it has as recipients the members of a heterosexual couple permanently constituted. Another issue, also addressed in the initiative, was that of the maternity replacement, allowed in exceptional cases. Thus, it was considered only in the context of a couple able to procreate but that he could not because of a situation of infertility that affects his female partner, such as the absence of a uterus, in case of injury or disease that completely and definitively impedes the pregnancy of the woman. Finally, we also consider the indispensable principle that it is absolutely free of charge that maternity replacement must occur, providing for severe and heavy criminal frameworks in cases where such provision is not complied with. in the previous Legislation, in 2012, a working group was formed, as already mentioned here today, where a group of Members of all parties tried to find a common text on the proposals submitted by the PSD and PS, because as you know, only these two came down to the specialty. It was the understanding of the PSD Parliamentary Group that freedom of voting should be granted on this matter and the vast majority of Members agreed to vote against it. Later, already in January and February this year, new similar initiatives were presented by the various parliamentary banks, in another merely political attempt to resolve the issue. And again they were rejected by the parliamentary majority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I was part of the working group of Members who worked together to seek consensus and was one of the Members who voted in favour of this and other diplomas on subjects with similar content to understand that social, scientific, technical, medical and even demographic developments thus summons us. My conviction is that of weighing the absolute right that every human being has to decide about his life. however and because the PSD lives and lives with these subjects in absolute freedom of thought, other opinions exist, quite different from mine. And because we live in democracy—see there, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — with exactly the same legitimacy as mine and yours! This is what characterizes us and is also what proudly distinguishes us from the other political parties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For us, when we talk about techniques of artificial reproduction, the interests of the child to be born are supreme and prevail over any other hypothetical individual rights and, above all, on all political-party agendas. To put such matters of importance on the political agenda only because it is a fracturing issue and because today the troubled political times demand it, particularly from me, more than as a Member, as a woman, I am ashamed. What summons me is the distress, the physical and psychic suffering of those who wish for years to have a child and not achieve it for medical reasons. That, yes, should always be present in our spirit, as well as in the first line of our heart the absolute safeguard of the best interests of these children. by improving the human condition and by depositing hope in the spectacular advances of medicine, we have in this matter, in Portugal, many and many good reasons to pride ourselves, for, for example, last October, the hospitals of the University of Coimbra managed to perform the first transplant of an ovary that had been cryopreserved, following the diagnosis of a cancer. This woman's ovary was removed and six months after all the cancer treatments she underwent, through this transplant, she was again given the possibility of trying to become pregnant and carry out her family project. This is the miracle of science working, this is a breeding technique in a public hospital in our country producing its results. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u196	And it is to this kind of miracle that this matter, much more scientific, ethical and technical than politics, should also be convened today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u197	For a second intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u198	Mr President, first of all, this is the first time that I have spoken in this Parliament, I would like to congratulate you personally and all the members of the Bureau who wish the greatest success in the conduct of our work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of two years of hard work in the Parliamentary Health Commission, many women with no capacity for pregnancy are now looking at us. What do we want to solve? The situation of women in a parental project with the misfortune of not being able to generate a child because of the absence of uterus, injury or disease of that organ that definitely prevents and absolute pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, science has already given these women an answer. Our answer is missing at the moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only the value of life and the value of the right to happiness of these people, of these couples, through the preservation of reproductive potential. Are we or are we not pro-natalists? Are we going to have the courage to deny this possibility of satisfying this natural aspiration, this legitimate longing, as Mrs. Angela Guerra has already said, when has science created the necessary means? We're not going, for sure! Otherwise we can see: today, in Portugal, it is already possible to cryopreservation of ovocytes, sperm, tissues to be used after oncological treatments and unfortunately many men and women have gone through it. There is already an open window of hope for these couples, for these women. But then what? When does the uterus become infuncal what response do they have? In Portugal, none! What, then, is the ethical imperative so that we can prevent this response when science, I repeat, has already given it, when scientific progress can already contribute to the happiness of these people? So, then, we also talk about the pregnant woman, the replacement pregnant woman. She is first and foremost a supportive woman, a woman motivated to help another woman or another couple; she is not any woman, she has a special motive. She is also a woman who will be evaluated with very strict criteria, which will obviously have a psychological follow-up to avoid situations that we all want to avoid, I repeat, that we all want to avoid. It will therefore be a work which we can improve in committee, in the field of expertise, so that we can resolve doubts and give more assurances to all of you. Members who still have them. I know this is a subject that causes a lot of discomfort, it is a complex subject, but I appeal to tolerance, it has already been invoked here by Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto, so that they do not close the door and let us perfect this work. This pregnant woman must have been a mother by now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u199	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u200	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, this pregnant woman must already have been a mother, she has passed through previous pregnancies, so she is an extraordinary woman, a woman who will help another or others, through a solidarity act, an act of love. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your tolerance and your ability to improve and open this door of hope to all the women who are waiting and who expect an answer from all of us. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, on behalf of me and the Bureau, for the kindness of your compliance. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for a second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will answer some questions that have been raised and which are basic issues that constitute discrimination of law and even human rights. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, who said that there seems to be benches that have all the certainty about this matter, I will say that it is neither good nor anyone has all the certainty. from this point of view, I even believe that, in addition to the contribution you have made, the doubts that the honourable Member has raised are good contributions to improve legislation in the specialty. The challenge is this: we generally approve it, we improve it in our specialty. But, Mrs. Member, we have certainty about some things, indeed. We are sure that there is no longer any discrimination in the current law and we are sure that the current law cannot discriminate against single women or women who have decided to marry or live with other women. Current legislation cannot impose a family prototype and say that all families that go beyond that prototype are unprotected or are not recognized in full rights. About that, we're absolutely sure. As we are also sure that, when we are about to take a step forward for a civilizational advancement, there is always someone who raises questions and doubts to try to take that step. But we are also sure that, at all times, the future has come to deny those who had doubts about civilizational advancement. For example, we remember that, on the current law of WFP, in the past, there was a group of deputies and Members who raised constitutional issues about that law. They, for example, raised genetic manipulation problems. Finally, it was proven, nine years after the law passed, that none of this existed. They were catastrophes to push for civilizational advancement and, again, the future came to deny who said so. Best interest of the child! Does anyone doubt that a woman who crosses the border to try to use LDCs techniques has the absolute desire to have that child? Does anyone doubt that this child’s interest is guarded when a woman tries to have that child so desperately? No one has any doubts about that. The child's best interest is not at stake, because he is not at risk. Mr President, I will end by thanking you for your tolerance. Mrs.Angela Guerra recalled that at the PSD bench there are various positions on the subject and did the apology, and well, to democracy. We too do and reiterate this apology to democracy. If at the PSD bench there can be several positions, if you can decide, what we want is that women can also decide and there is, in the legislation, nothing that says that a woman can't decide about her parenthood project. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u203	I now give the floor to Mr Miguel Santos for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also integrated the working group that, in the past legislature, devoted long hours of study and debate on the topic of assisted drug procreation and on some of the changes and innovations that over time and the evolution of society might eventually require to update the regime of assisted medicine procreation. The fact is that in this working group the position that we stand for, as an institutional and official position of the PSD Parliamentary Group and which I therefore recognise here with all the property, was that WFP should have as beneficiaries married or united of different sex—in fact, this was the final text that came out of this working group. What is now proposed to us, both by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and by the other parliamentary groups, is a vision and a consecration of the techniques of WFP not as a subsidiary method of procreation — a position we have institutionally defended — but as an alternative and complementary method of procreation. in this sense, the rule, moreover, the only one, which is altered in the bill of the Socialist Party is to allow the beneficiaries to be so much older than 18 years and not to be banned or disabled and to give their informed consent. in this way, I believe that the Socialist Party intended, in fact, to enshrine this alternative and complementary view of procreation through the use of LDCs. The truth is that this is not what happens and therefore I would also like to leave this note of attention to, eventually, a reflection in the process of specialty. What the working group had adopted were all the recommendations made by the National Council of WFP to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u206	What the Socialist Party is adopting at this time is just the only measure which is not included in the recommendations of the National Council of WFP to the Assembly of the Republic, i.e. the only amendment they propose in the law is in fact an amendment which I repeat does not include in the recommendations of the National Council of WFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u208	But, in the case of this alternative and complementary view, I would like to draw attention to the following: according to equality, which is based on the speech that the Socialist Party has been affirming, this equality ends up being discriminatory, because, in this sense, as a complementary and alternative method, couples of the same male gender are outside of the legislative changes that now come to propose, even in the project that the Left Block also assumes, which is a very similar project...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u209	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the Left Block also assumes a very similar project to the conclusions of the working group. It is true that, even by consecrating the pregnancy of substitution and having as a legal requirement the absence or the disease of the uterus, it is clear that the same male couples, men, are out of this complementary and alternative view that you present.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u211	So they're going to vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u212	Therefore, if the objective, within this logic, is that there is no such discrimination that they understand that there is, in fact, it will continue to exist, according to the bills they have presented. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u213	Then vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u214	The Socialist Party has benefited from a transfer of time from the NAP, which the Bureau has already endorsed, so I will give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We note here an evolution of the Social Democratic Party, because last year, when we introduced this same bill, he said that he was anti-personnel and this year is concerned about issues to be resolved in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u216	It was two projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u217	Today, almost 10 years after the current law and 30 years after Spain has solved the problem, we are not talking about moral visions, yes, we are talking about equality!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u218	He's, he's...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u219	This is the issue that is missing in order to end discrimination in the law and it is a debate that obviously has two obstacles that, in short, are: women, who appear without the protection of man, and this is where it strikes the point, it is always here that beats the point, gender, and homophobia. It is the fear of lesbians, which Mrs Odete Santos so well identified in the discussion of the law currently in force. That's what's at stake here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u220	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u221	It is the fear of women without the guardianship of men and the fear of lesbians.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u222	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u223	That's exactly what's at stake here. Well, what's in issue here is we have a choice. Whether or not we want to have a child, the state has nothing to do with it. But having this choice and this choice is not an illegal one that makes us run for Spain, as foregone, is that it is absolutely irrevocable. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u224	Mrs Elza Pais has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the debate, I would like to say that today we can actually break down another stone of this gigantic wall of prejudice and that women who are not married or married to other women, i.e. all women can have access to assisted drug procreation. This will constitute the end of brutal discrimination based on sex, depending on the civil state and according to sexual orientation. This is the Parliament that will remain in history as the Parliament on rights and as the Parliament on women's rights. No one's lost, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We're all gonna win. And they will also win not only women and men, but families and children. And we will surely win in dignity. I call on everyone to vote on these just projects for a freer society, for a society where we can all be happy, because these themes are not fracturing, they are structural; fracturing is discrimination. So, no, we really shouldn't delay. And, Mr Santos, we have all the availability — indeed, your suggestions will be, as has already been said, very welcome — to deepen, in the field of expertise, a number of matters on which we still have doubts. So let us not postpone approval of these bills. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-26.u226	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, I give the debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 36 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE), 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PAN) and 51 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( The Greens) and by the end of our agenda, I will therefore announce tomorrow's agenda on Friday 27. The session began at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: in point 1, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Elimination of national examinations of 1. the basic education cycle(BE) and 44 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eliminates final evidence of 1. the basic education cycle ( PCP ). In point 2, the assessment of draft resolution No 14 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a social development programme ( PSD and CDS-PP ). in point 3, the assessment of the following joint debate is expressed: in general, of the projects of lein.o 25 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of direct adjustment and of the process of « sub-concession » to the private of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ) and 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the public public public transport service of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, and the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE ( PCP ) ; of draft resolutions Nos 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annulment of the sub-concession of the transport systems of the Lisbon Railway Company, SA ( Carris, SA ) and the Lisbon Metropolitan, EPE ( ML, EPE ) ( PS ), 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal and reversal of the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Collective Transport Society of the Port, SA ( PS ), 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the companies STCP and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the cancellation and reversion of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the transport systems of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens) ; and also, in general, of the projects of lein. 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Bases of the Concession of the Port Light Metro System and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service by making the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June and repealing Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, determining the nullity of acts in the meantime practised in violation of this diploma ( BE), 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the cancellation and reversal of the process of sub-concession of the STCP and amends the Statutes of the STCP, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July ( BE) and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintains the legal personality and autonomous existence of the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE, of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, da Transtejo, Transportes do Tejo, SA, e da Soflusa - Sociedade Fluvial de Transports, SA ( BE ). of point 4, the assessment of draft resolution No 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the disclosure and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education ( The Greens ). in point 5, the joint assessment of the projects of lein.o 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences ( PACC) ( BE) and 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sets out the requirements for access to the teaching profession and ensures the annulment of the effects of the skills and knowledge assessment test ( CFP ). Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all for today. I believe that, with the permission of the President of the House, who has, however, entered the Chamber, I can close the work. The sitting is therefore closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
