ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for State and Finance and the Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Abel Baptista, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: motion for a resolution No 115 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions, opened for signature in Magglingen on 18 September 2014, which falls to 2. the Commission ; and proposals for lein. 336 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May, which falls to 6. the Commission, 337 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters which impose prison sentences or other measures deprived of liberty for the purposes of the implementation of these judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of judgments and decisions relating to conditional freedom for the purposes of monitoring surveillance and alternative sanctions, transposing Framework Decisions Nos 2008 / 909/JHA, of the Council, and 2008 / 947 / JAI, of both 27 November 2008, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 338 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the general regime of the Cable Protection Process, which falls to 1 : the Commission, 339 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 from 1 September, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 340 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code and approves the Legal Scheme of the Adoption Process, which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda. As everyone knows, the first point is the joint discussion of the following bills, in general, and draft resolutions: Bill No. 841 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards external audit entities ( BE); Bill No 842 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards the internal audit and control of credit institutions ( BE); Bill No. 843 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits payments to entities based in non-cooperating offshores ( BE); Bill No. 844 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the powers of the Banco de Portugal in weighing the suitability for the performance of functions in credit institutions ( BE); Bill No. 845 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( BE); Bill No. 846 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the last beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE); Bill No. 847 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits the holding of qualifying holdings by non-financial charities or non-financial conglomerates(BE); Bill No. 960 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Securities Code, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( BEs); Proposal for a Law No 334 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Legal Scheme for Auditing by transposing Directive 2014 / 56 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2006 / 43 / EC on the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts, and ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) No 537 / 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements for the legal review of public interest entities ; Bill No. 962 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by the Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( thirty-sixth amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ) ( PCP ) ; Draft resolution No 1487 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the recomposition and immobilization of assets held by the Espírito Santo Group, the Banco Espírito Santo and the members of the GES Superior Council ( CFP ) ; Draft resolution No 1488 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — determines the public control of credit institutions and financial corporations with relevance to Portuguese economic policy and financial system, considering the segregation of financial and non-financial components in mixed groups ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 963 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies and the legal framework of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, providing for specific measures to strengthen the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ) ; Draft resolution No 1489 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of challenges with a view to strengthening the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ) ; Bill No. 964 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — regulates the access and exercise of the activity of evaluators of real estate providing services to entities of the national financial system ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Draft resolution No 1490 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of restrictive measures in the marketing of risk financial products by credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Draft resolution No 1491 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make efforts in the supranational sphere to make the financial system more transparent ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Draft resolution No 1492 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures that promote and ensure efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory entities — Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and the Insurance and Pension Fund Supervisory Authority ( ASF ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Draft resolution No 1493 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures leading to an increase in short-term financial literacy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, the Left Bloc will be the first parliamentary group to intervene, taking into account the fact that it was the first to sign up and taking into account the order of entry of initiatives. Therefore, in order to present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2007 the BCP won the Best Market Bank Award developed, the Best Foreign Exchange Bank Award by Global Finance, and the Best Private Bank Award in Portugal by Euromoney. In 2008, Jardim Gonçalves began to be judged by several economic crimes, credits not charged to customers and shareholders and offshore companies that served to buy their own shares, a prodigious imagination at the service of creative accounting. Jorge Jardim Gonçalves was the last banker to be judged so that the financial system could finally return to normal. In 2008, the case of BPN, a bank of senior PSD, among them Cavaco Silva, exploded. Credits of favor, companies and fictitious guarantees, parallel accounting and even a bank created according to the business of Oliveira and Costa and Dias Loureiro were involved. Much of the system worked, as is logical, through offshore vehicles. José Oliveira and Costa were the last banker to be judged so that the financial system could finally return to normal. Months later, we discovered the BPP. The bank of Rendeiro was dedicated to managing fortunes and making use of offshore companies to beautify results, withdrawing risks from the balance sheet from customers and paying exorbitances ( undeclared) to their administrators, notably through a BPP account in the Cayman Islands. João Rendeiro was the last banker to be judged so that the financial system could finally return to normal. Last May, Joaquim Goes, director of BES, received the career prize awarded by the Catholic University for the recognition of « his exceptional professional career in the area of management ». In the speech, the award-winning recalled John Paul II, appealed to Pope Francis' "disinterested solidarity" and thanked his former leaders and mentors, including Ricardo Salgado. More or less at the same time, BES carried out a capital increase operation, subscribed to 178 %, described by the social communication as a great success. A few months later, Joaquim Goes was suspended by Banco de Portugal. Among other things, the bank will have been used to finance business of the Spirito Santo family, partly through offshore societies. The missing credits of BES Angola, a bank distinguished last year with the best bank award by Global Finance, are also highlighted for the best bank in Angola. Ricardo Salgado is today the last banker to be judged so that the banking system can finally go back to normal. In the latter case, as in the first case, the Banco de Portugal was unable to identify the years and years of creative accounting, the accumulation of fraud and money laundering operations. There were errors in supervision and they must have political consequences. It is in this context that the renewal of the Governor as well as the government statements are no longer surprising. Yesterday, when announcing the renewal of Carlos Costa in Banco de Portugal, the government made « a clear positive assessment of the work of the Governor ». It is true to ask what impressed the government so much. The fact that Banco de Portugal was aware of the injury and only communicated it to customers and CMVM months later? The fact that you have not been able to remove Ricardo Salgado from BES administration in time? The 'competence' of betting all the tokens in a shielding strategy which, beyond being unrealistic, has been systematically violated, even in front of the eyes of the Banco de Portugal? Or was the real courage that pleases the government so much was the behavior of those who always gave the body to the bullets by Passos Coelho and Maria Luís Albuquerque, assuming as their decisions that were at least shared with the Executive? This is the question you have to answer about the political consequences of BES, but we have not lost it to put aside the essentials. And the essential thing is that the financial system needs a great deal of money. It has been promised, we have not forgotten since the financial crisis of 2007. Obama, Sarkozy, Blair, Merkel then joined in chorus and one voice to promise that everything would be different. The finance was finally to be placed in order and the offshorers would be controlled. Essentially, for finance, we know today, everything was the same. The same cannot be said, however, for the lives of Europeans and Portuguese, which is much worse than in 2007. However, almost all the schemes that I listed at the beginning passed through offshores, places constructed precisely to escape the stares of regulators and tax collectors. In any of these banking crises, investment and speculation practices have flooded commercial activity, jeopardizing the stability and security of depositors and, in any way or otherwise, all led to the intervention of the State and the injection of public money either directly or indirectly, which directs us to the proposals we are going to discuss today. Mrs. Members, the worst thing that could happen after the Parliamentary Committee on Management of BES was to do nothing or think that everything is solved, as some of the proposals suggest, with committees to study, report, attempts at international diligence and a lack of measures that are worthy of the most good will but that nothing will change the day-to-day functioning of the financial system. That is why the Block advocates urgent intervention in three aspects of banking activity: more transparent structures and simpler operations; more demand on the sale of financial products in the counters; strengthening regulatory and supervisory powers. These proposals are far from exhausting the vision of the Left Block on the financial system, but they are very clearly responding to an appeal and responsibility following the problems identified in the BES Management Survey Committee. Let us list, and then explain briefly the objectives to which we propose ourselves. Firstly, improving the transparency of banking structures. We propose to extend the registration requirement in Banco de Portugal to shareholders who hide their identity by participating in the capital of the banks through other companies. Not to know these « last beneficiaries » facilitates the use of privileged information, e.g. to negotiate with shares of the bank itself, as seen in several cases of banking secrecy in Portugal. Secondly, to combat the opacity of financial operations. All transactions with entities and undertakings based in non-cooperating offshore jurisdictions or whose last beneficiary is not known shall be prevented. It is a measure of principle: Portugal cannot compact with those who work with anonymity, with those who prevent the investigation of tax fraud or money laundering. We want zero tolerance at this point. Thirdly, simplify the structures of banking groups. Complex conglomerates, which include financial and non-financial parties, sometimes with headquarters in inaccessible jurisdictions, open the way for operations and conflicts of interest. Worse: the complexity of these structures is a lever for all practices, all tax planning operations and all negotiations, as we have seen in the case of PT or in multiple GHG companies. We cannot tolerate this complexity! Fourthly, protect retail customers. In addition to the economy and taxpayers, banking crises always affect bank customers. In the case of BES, they are « affected by the trade paper ». The difference between information taken by the bank, which sells its own products, and by the customer, who trusts the first and its account manager, implies protecting the most fragile side of this relationship. We therefore propose a ban on the sale, to banks' counters, of securities issued by them or by entities related to them. In parallel, we propose measures to prevent subterfuges such as what BES used to escape the supervision of CMVM in the placement of GHG debt, either by its value, or by the number of subscribers below 150 made the paper classified as a private placement, being out of the reach of CMVM. We believe that the determining criterion should be the type of customer, whether or not qualified, and not the number of customers or the value of the issue. Fifthly, improving banking supervision. The Bank of Portugal shall monitor the activity of the banks directly and permanently, assuming the function of internal audit and control. Thus, irregularities can be known earlier and without risk of reprisals, exercised by administrators or shareholders about employees who denounce them. As is the case in other legal systems and as the European Banking Authority recommends, the Bank of Portugal should have strengthened powers in assessing the suitability of managers — indispensable to the exercise of financial activity — independently in relation to any internal proceedings or decisions resulting from them. As for external auditors, we propose that Banco de Portugal be directly involved in their choice, in the definition of their remuneration and their rotation, ensuring that they act independently, free of the perverse customer-provider relationship that they have with the banks that audit today. In fact, it is incomprehensible that the proposal which the Government brings here does not take into account the considerations and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry itself and does not put a final end to any of the dysfunctions that have allowed the true collective amnesia that each crisis takes the bank of assault. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Are these measures sufficient to solve the problems of the financial system? No, no, no. They're not. These are the aspects that arise directly from the experience of the Holy Spirit case and which must be corrected to avoid the repetition of history. However, a deeper review of the ways and rules of bank operation at tax level, consumer protection or the protection of indebted families is essential to begin with. But, above all, it is confirmed in this case that the reality of proving us in the most harsh way: the bank is too important to be in the hands of the bankers, they are called Jorge, José, João or Ricardo. Any one of them or any other who owns a bank will not hesitate to use the money entrusted to it for its own profit. After all, that's really the purpose of private banks. None of them are linked to the common interest. For this reason, the Left Block refuses to use public money to privatize private banks. On the contrary, only the public control of the bank can ensure transparency, stability, efficiency and democratic control of the financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the debate on the order in which the initiatives were presented. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill to be considered approves the Legal Audit Scheme and aims to transpose Directive 2014 / 56 / EU on the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts and to ensure the implementation, in the domestic legal order, of the Regulation on specific requirements for the legal review of public interest entities'accounts. The Directive reviews the 2006 European legal framework for the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts, strengthening and deepening the requirements of the public oversight system. The Regulation, in turn, recognizing the significant public relevance of public interest entities, takes note of their size and complexity, as well as the nature of their activities, directly regulates, with greater depth, various aspects of the legal review of the accounts of those entities. Without prejudice to its direct and immediate application in the various Member States of the European Union, it was decided to provide for several implementing rules in the Legal Audit Scheme. Along with the need to welcome these Community instruments at the end of 2014, the National Audit Board presented an exhibition to the Ministry of Finance where it highlighted some weaknesses and shortcomings of its operating model recommending that the same be changed. Since then, a dialogue has begun with supervisors to find a more effective model for monitoring the audit activity, and this bill has chosen to confer this competence on the Committee on the Securities Market. Therefore, despite the deadline for transposition of the Directive to June 2016, it would be pointless at this time to make an adjustment to the current model of the National Audit Board without immediate action on the amendments that the Directive and the Regulation impose by mid-year. And likewise, it would not make sense to wait another year to solve a problem already identified. in this sense, in general terms, these diplomas have made it necessary to introduce changes to the current audit supervision model, as soon as they establish increased requirements for independence, experience, transparency and prevention of conflicts of interest, which can be mirrored as follows: The quality control system of the activity provided by auditors in entities of public interest shall necessarily be assumed by the competent authority for the audit supervision, it shall not be possible to maintain the current model according to which this quality control is carried out by the Order of Official Accountants, solely for the National Audit Supervisory Board to carry out the supervision of the audit ; Disappearance of the body responsible for representing the class of exercise of the supervisory activity, and may not be subject to the Order of the Official Accountants to integrate the competent authority for the supervision of auditors. In particular, the taxes applicable to the public oversight system, which should cover the approval and registration of official auditors (ROCs) and audit firms, the adoption of standards on professional deontology and internal quality control of audit firms, continuing training, quality and inspection control systems and penalties for official auditors and audit firms. It was considered inappropriate to create a new supervisory structure, with all the costs, delay and other disadvantages associated with an option of this content, opting for a solution that, ensuring independence of the profession, as required by European Union law, would take advantage of the structure, experience and competences established by an existing authority for this purpose. Thus, it was decided to confer on CMVM competences for the supervision of audit activity, benefiting from the experience accumulated by this authority in the supervision of auditors and broadening its competences related to the supervision of auditors of listed companies. in these terms, the bill presents as main novelties: A new audit activity supervision model, with the already mentioned allocation to CMVM of powers of general supervision of official auditors and audit firms. in this respect, the Order of Official Accountants shall have delegated powers relating to the training, examinations and stages and quality control of official auditors of accounts other than public-interest entities, as is the result of Community taxation; Quality control shall be carried out exclusively as provided for in Community diplomas by the CMVM in the case of public interest entities; A special and more demanding system of supervision and organisational rules for auditors of public interest is introduced. The present bill also sets out specific rules for the control of activity, in particular: The registration with the CMVM, according to which, in addition to the inclusion in the Order of Official Account Supervisors of all auditors, all entities that perform functions of public interest shall be subject to prior registration in the CMVM ; Specific rules for the mandatory rotation of auditors where a requirement for the rotation of auditors is established for each of the two or three mandates according to three or four years, extending up to a maximum of 10 years, by decision of the General Assembly and on a reasoned proposal from the supervisory body; Limitation of the provision of services other than auditing to entities of public interest to which auditors provide audit services, applying a very extensive list of services prohibited by the Regulation; Limitation of fees, a limit being established on the proportion of fees received by separate audit services corresponding to 30 % of the total value of fees received by the same entity by audit services and different audit services; the introduction of the obligation of public interest entities to submit an audit report to the supervisory body and another to the supervisory authority; the inclusion of rules on suitability and professional qualification as requirements for obtaining and maintaining the audit records; And finally, the introduction of a clearer sanction scheme, with new types of illegal and higher fines, also establishing an immediate obligation to communicate immediately to the CMMC and sectoral regulatory entities of any facts that may set up serious irregularities, counter-orders or crimes. in these terms, given that this proposal implies substantial changes in the activity of official auditors and that the diploma that revises their Statutes is already under discussion in the specialty was articulated, with the members of the majority, a proposal of articulation to be considered in conjunction with this bill. In parallel, I cannot fail to report on some of the recommendations made in the framework of the Parliamentary Commission for the Management of Banco Espírito Santo and the Espírito Santo Group, where the need for all relevant entities and agents to contribute to greater confidence, robustness and transparency in the functioning of banking institutions and for increased attention, particularly with regard to internal control functions, external auditing and supervisory activities. In response to this appeal, this bill and all initiatives that have been promoted by the Government in this area—in particular, the Capital Requirements Directive IV or CRD IV, transposed by Decree-Law No 157/2014, the Deposit Guarantee Systems Directive and the Banking Recovery and Resolution Directive, transposed by Law No 23-A/2015 — constitute significant steps in strengthening financial stability and in harmonizing rules applicable to the banking sector and in this particular case to all public interest entities where credit institutions are placed. Recognising that auditors are charged by law to carry out a legal review of public interest entities' accounts to increase public confidence in the financial statements of such entities, this bill welcomes European concerns in Portuguese legal order in this regard and lays down rules that contribute to the orderly functioning of markets, improving the integrity and efficiency of financial statements. The bill we discussed today therefore revises the framework of audit supervision activity in Portugal, but also complements the framework of the audit activity of credit institutions. It should, however, be left with a final word to point out that, since a legal framework is in force enabling mechanisms of control, supervision and regulation appropriate to the supervision of the activity of credit institutions, it is in the interests of all and, in particular, of the financial agents acting with the pro-activity and diligence necessary for financial stability. I am now at the disposal of the honourable Members. Members for the clarifications they consider necessary. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u7	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records the registration of six Members. Members to ask questions to Mrs Minister, who answers in groups of three. So Mr João Oliveira has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u8	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I will ask three questions. She knows that this debate has at its centre initiatives related to the BES Committee of Inquiry and to the resolution made by the House of the Republic on the subject of BES and the first question has to do with the New Bank and the tax forgiveness granted to the New Bank. The Minister, the Government and the parties that support the Government have been saying that the Portuguese will have no costs with the New Bank, but the fact is that the Portuguese are already paying EUR 445 million, at least by the BES hole, with the tax forgiveness that the Government has attributed to those who are staying with the New Bank, in the privatisation that the Government wants to implement. Now, the Minister of Finance must inform the Portuguese and explain: firstly, what is the exact amount of tax forgiveness granted to the New Bank; secondly, what are the taxes covered by the pardon, whether or not the IMT and the seal tax are covered; thirdly, whether the full pardon has been granted or whether there are still procedures in progress to guarantee that tax forgiveness; and finally, how does the Government justify a tax forgiveness of hundreds of millions of euros to a bank, while at the same time it crushes workers and the Portuguese people. A second question, Mrs Minister, has to do with the Governor of Banco de Portugal and the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, which is also on the table today because we are discussing the issues of supervision. The Minister knows that the CFP does not follow the idea that all the problems of the financial system are the fault of the Banco de Portugal or that the problem of supervision is a problem of the person who carries out that position. Moreover, we have said that the problem is more of the nature of the functions than of those who perform them. However, the Government should provide an explanation to the country about the renewal of a Governor of the Banco de Portugal, which, as demonstrated in the case of BES, did not in its entirety exercise the powers it had to prevent what was happening in the Bank, and with implications in the Group. And the government has to give that explanation, especially after the investigation that the Commission itself has made. This option is not understood by the Government, Mrs Minister, and the Government should at least explain it. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you a specific question relating to the proposal for a law. Today, we are discussing several initiatives related to advances in supervision and regulation, plus competences, means, strengthening issues related to supervision and audits. Now, the bill that the Minister comes here to defend does exactly the opposite. The proposed law that the Minister here brings, with a forecast not contained in the Directive, is to extend the exemption of audits from accounts by official auditors. What Mrs Finance Minister does with the amendment to Article 262. that of the Code of Commercial Societies is to allow anonymous companies, companies by quotas and other commercial companies to be exempt from the review of accounts by official auditors, from the limits which, in the case of the balance sheet, are increased from EUR 1, EUR 5 million to EUR 4 million and, in the case of net turnover, from EUR 3 million to EUR 8 million. Madam Minister, in order to understand what we are talking about, we will have a higher exemption standard than in countries such as the United Kingdom, Spain, France and others. I would therefore like the Minister to be able to give an explanation here as to what justification for this exemption from audits of accounts, when the Assembly of the Republic is discussing precisely the opposite, i.e. the strengthening of the audit of accounts and financial activity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u9	Also to ask the Minister for clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u10	Mr President, Minister for Finance, following Mr. João Oliveira's question, in fact, it is somewhat incomprehensible that, at a time when the mesh of supervision is tightened at all, and in a debate where that will happen, Mr. Minister for Finance submits the transposition of a Directive and includes an extension of these exemptions which are not provided for by the Directive. And the question is this: why? And now I would like to know whether the Minister can tell us how Portugal, with this amendment proposed by the Government, compares with other European countries and whether it has any estimate of how many entities it is that, having approved this proposal, no longer have an obligation to review accounts. Another question, Mrs. Minister of Finance, has to do with the following: there is a partial transposition of the Directive, there are matters that remain outside and are not very important. One of them has to do with regulating conflicts of interest. The Minister, in her proposal for the directive's transposition law, she chose not to include it, and the question is: why? Why does it leave out important matters, making only partial transposition, and why is it in a generalised context of legitimate concern about the rigor and control of accounts and before a project where all this is reinforced, suddenly comes up a proposal in the context of the transposition of a Directive, which is not provided for by the Directive and which increases by 167 % the minimum limits which require an official auditor? Oh, my God! The implications of this proposal must be explained, their motivation too, and until the Minister gives the explanations, this proposal appears to us at least as a bit strange. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u11	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u12	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u13	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u14	Mr President, we have made our registration a few moments ago. at that time, we were told, because we asked him, that before us, to ask questions to the government, Mr. João Oliveira was inscribed, who had already made his request for clarification. It has now been mentioned, in view of our strangeness with the intervention of Mr Galamba, who had, after all, been wrong and that the inscription of Mr Galamba would have been earlier. One mistake, we see, Mr. President, now the use of the word by Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, of the PSD, is no longer a mistake, it is two errors followed, and we do not accept this. I am sorry, Mr President, that the Bureau is better organized, but that the parliamentary groups do not have correct information or that the order of inscriptions is not making any sense. We have registered ourselves and therefore we want to ask our questions in this first set.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u15	Mrs. Members, the organization I have in terms of inscriptions follows an order which is in balance with that which has been the whole of the interventions. By the logic of my process, in relation to this situation, I would have given the floor to all those who presented initiatives and followed the order of all to make their presentation. Then, in the end, there would be inscriptions for questions to each of the Members who had made the presentation of the projects. That was not the situation I realized when I arrived at the Bureau. That is why, in fact, I now have a type of inscription that seeks to strike a balance between the various interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u16	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u17	You have the floor, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u18	Mr President, also in the course of an appeal to the Bureau, the question is this: when I entered into a request for clarification, I was told that I would speak next to Mr. João Galamba and that I would be in fifth place and Mr. João Galamba in fourth place, on the order of requests for clarification, which is a different thing from the order of interventions, because this, yes, follows the order of presentation of the projects. Therefore, something has happened in the Bureau, Mr President, so now for the purpose of organizing my work, I want to know where I am on the order of requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u19	Madam Member, as you know, the Secretary at the Bureau is no longer here and therefore I cannot answer that question. Next, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira will use the floor, then Mrs Heloísa Apollonia and then Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u20	Mr President, then I would like to ask the Bureau to ask you which criterion to change the order of the inscriptions previously established.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u21	That's what you're here for, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u22	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u23	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u24	Mr President, as this problem arose at the time when Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira would use the floor, I just wanted to inform the Bureau that the PSD bench does not care about your intervention, which is to continue for debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor then. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u26	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u27	No, Mr. President! PSD just handed over to Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u28	Then, in this case, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u29	Mr President, Minister, there are three questions I would like to ask you, a little after what has already been done. First of all, on this proposal for the legal system of audit activity, we do not understand how if the government is going to move into a law on auditing and official auditing companies, the unanimous conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry to BES are left out. It was unanimous that there should be a review of the way auditors are chosen, that it should not depend on the entities that pay and must be done by an independent entity, and that it may be the Banco de Portugal or other; it was unanimous that the rotation period of these audits should be much shorter than the one that exists at the moment and avoid situations of conflicts of interest. We do not see any of these proposals that have been unanimously accepted in the Committee of Inquiry reflected in this proposal that the Government brings the debate, in the midst of a series of other proposals that want to limit the action of the banks and limit the possibility of the financial system. We do not understand how the minimum limit for the obligation of an official auditor is raised. Mr Minister, we are at a time when we want to tighten the rules on the financial system, in which we come out of a process which, in essence, by entities which had no official audits, had no audits and, therefore, they did what they well understood, without any control, and before this learning, the Minister and the Government believe that a good proposal to bring to Parliament is to increase the minimum limit for the obligation of official auditors. What we want to know is who is out there and what are the loopholes that the government will open, by exempting a set of entities or companies, or other types of institutions, from having an official auditor, only being limited to its tax advice, with all the potential conflicts of interest that also arise there. Secondly, Mrs Minister, we have asked this question several times, there is indeed a reason for it to be made and repeated by various parliamentary groups and by several people: what is the size of tax forgiveness to the New Bank? What taxes does it cover? And I'm not talking about deferred tax assets, I'm talking about other exemptions, other taxes, to the New Bank. What are the values that relate to each tax? And what are the opinions that the Tax Authority and the Tax Studies Centre have given in this regard? And it is not only the last opinion, it is the sequence of opinions, because we have received in the Committee of Inquiry several negative opinions to many tax losses of the type of these which are being given to the New Bank. The Minister has to admit that there is a confusion over what values are, what taxes are, in fact, the opinion of the Tributary Authority — the first and the last — and what developments have been so far. It's important to have this information. Thirdly, and speaking of the Commission of Inquiry, I ask you the following: Mrs. Minister, how were we discussing supervisory errors for weeks at the last hearing of the Committee of Inquiry, and today we have the retraining of Carlos Costa in front of the Banco de Portugal? Ms. Minister assured that there would be an evaluation to the work of Banco de Portugal, assured that there would be an internal evaluation, with conclusions, that we could make this assessment and take consequences of Banco de Portugal's activity at various levels: as it did, as determined the shielding strategy in which it was ineffective, as treated the injured customers of BES, who never got answers or got misleading answers. All this assessment should be made and we do not see any such assessment to be made, but nevertheless the Governor to be remanded in front of Banco de Portugal. I would therefore like to know whether the Government had access to the internal evaluation that Banco de Portugal had made and, if it had access, would ask it to make it available so that we too could have access to the evaluation that Banco de Portugal had made on its own procedures. Otherwise, it is still a « black box » in which we do not know whether the institutions are being evaluated, and our assessment is that it should not be repeated because there were too many mistakes that Carlos Costa could have this vote of confidence, this prize, to be re-evaluated in front of the Banco de Portugal. The conclusion we can draw, Mrs Minister, waiting for answers to these questions is that the Government does not want to learn. It continues to deregulation further, pressing those who have failed and persist in helping private banks, at the expense of more austerity and more taxes for people, workers and pensioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u30	In reply, I now give the floor to the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues have a few points in common. Starting with the issue of the amendments proposed to the Code of Commercial Societies, it should be noted that what the Government proposes in this bill is a change of limits which, in fact, raises the limits for the requirement of ROC for quotas companies, but significantly reduces the limits, imposing the requirement of ROC, for anonymous companies, which are those of greater complexity and the way in which a large part of public interest is concerned. Therefore, it seeks to achieve a balance here, which is what is in this proposal, which has as its main mobile recognition that audit requirements should be particularly greater for anonymous societies. And the proposed amendments are aimed at increasing the limits on the demand for ROC in relation to quotas, but at significantly reducing for anonymous companies, placing a much larger number of anonymous companies under much tighter requirements. And it's with this balance that you guys are. Members should examine this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u32	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u33	Therefore, much more anonymous societies to be audited by OCR and fewer companies by quotas to be audited by OCR because they are less worrying in the context of the issues that meet us in today's debate. It is in this balance that the proposal should be examined. As regards matters of conflict of interest, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that, as I said in the initial speech, together with this proposal for a bill amending audit supervision, there are a number of amendments which should be made to the Statute of the Official Accountants'Order. It is in this Statute of the Order of Official Accountants that the generality of the forecasts relating to conflicts of interest, such as, in fact, must be because that is what makes sense. But indeed—in obedience to Community taxation—there was a very significant concern that there should be a departure from the supervisory authority of those who are supervised, therefore, by removing the Order of the Official Auditors from the supervision of their own activities within this model, and the generality of the provisions for the prevention of conflicts of interest are included in this proposed amendment to the Statute which, as I said initially, should be assessed in conjunction with this proposal of law, because they make a set that is intended to be articulated and harmonious. With regard to the other two questions raised, I wanted to try again to clarify the question of tax exemptions in the New Bank's constitution. It's essential that the ladies. Members realize that the resolution decision is not comparable to the decision of shareholders to change the structure of their society, it is an imposition by the authorities. However, an imposition by the authorities that makes a profit for the State as a result of this measure does not seem to me to make sense. The rules for the incorporation of assets into other companies by parallelism apply, and it is also essential to note that these issues of exemptions in respect of certain taxes do not have any relevance to the buyer of the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u34	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u35	This happened last year when the New Bank was created. [[PCP protests.]] Anyone who buys the New Bank will offer the value that is by the value of their balance sheet, that is, does not affect, in any way, the interest of the buyer, there is no benefit given to the buyer. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not because you are shouting about the matter that this becomes less true.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u37	As regards the question of the retraining of Dr. Carlos Costa in the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal, as has already been said and repeated, the Government makes a very positive assessment of the overall mandate of the Governor. I would, however, like to remind the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is for us to discuss the bills and there will be a hearing in Parliament, precisely for the honourable Members. Members make the evaluation of Dr. Carlos Costa's proposal for retraining. I think today it would be more useful to devote time to this matter, without prejudice to repeating that the government makes a positive assessment of Dr. Carlos Costa's performance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u38	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor now to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into BES has undoubtedly written one of the most relevant pages of this Parliament's life. But we have to do everything, we have to do everything else! For this reason, especially because of the size and severity of its consequences, no one would bear the idea that everything would come to an end without the appropriate answers being given, including those to the judiciary. It is not enough to know the facts, it is not enough to know the authors, it is not enough to know the consequences; the Portuguese wait and demand from all of us that we be able to draw the proper illusions and be consistent with the illusions we take. Mr Minister, the proposed law that the Government has submitted to this House and the 19 legislative initiatives presented by the other parliamentary groups are assumed as possible responses to the multiple and different shortcomings and weaknesses of our financial system. I repeat independently, regardless of the more detailed assessment that will fall on each of these initiatives, as well as, as it could not fail to be, of the proposed law itself, there are a number of issues that we would like to put around it in a matter we called the collation here because we understand that it is relevant in the context of the discussion we are working on today. This relates to the governance of companies in Portugal. The first question we would like to ask you is simply this: how does the Minister see the governance of companies in Portugal? How does it compare with what is best practiced in international terms? Does the Minister agree or not with the current opinion that in Portugal, for example, too much is appreciated, in excess, the role of the executive president but, at the same time, it is devalued, even if it is even vulgar, what is or should it be the role of non-executive administrators? Does the Minister understand or not that the institutions of our financial system, globally speaking, have adopted models of government that allow them, in a transparent way, to ensure an effective separation of the powers of management of supervisory powers? Does the Minister understand or not that the institutions of our financial system have set up truly independent internal control systems? Finally, does the Minister agree or not that everything could have been different, that everything could be different if, I repeat, together with the reforms that we can come to do and implement in our financial system, the financial institutions themselves adopt sound management and accountability control practices and, when I talk about accountability, do I talk about accountability without exception of all social bodies? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u40	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, comes the Minister here to suggest that this question of the retraining of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal is not of interest to the subject we are discussing today, that this issue comes to a halt to the debate, should not be part of it. I believe that the Minister is wrong, because she is here today discussing basically the credibility of the system, which steps can be taken towards the credibility of the system. Mr Minister, exactly projects relating to supervision are under discussion. Why? Because it is understood that there have been serious oversight failures and that it is necessary to make some mechanisms more robust so that supervision cannot fail as it has failed. It is true that the Banco de Portugal did not have all the mechanisms to act, but those who had, Mrs. Minister, did not grasp them competently as it should have done, nor did it grasp them in good time, held them late and bad hours. from there, of course, damage to the country resulting from supervision that did not act in the molds in which it could have acted. And what does the government do about this? While some parliamentary groups come here to present some proposals relating, precisely, to strengthening the credibility of supervision, what the government does is to reinstate the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal Carlos Costa. And I wonder if this does not contribute to the fragility of the supervisory image itself, since there is a history that cannot be forgotten. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u42	Mr. Minister, in our view, does not contribute to the credibility of the system, nor does the Banco de Portugal itself. The Minister says this, almost as if the Government had nothing to do with it: "The Members. Members will even hold a hearing.' And I ask you, is the result of this hearing, perhaps, binding?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u43	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u44	And then we have the majority we have in the Assembly of the Republic, and the Minister knows that! Now they do not constantly 'wash their hands' of their responsibilities, particularly with regard to the New Bank, because the Minister knows that, according to the legal framework in force, a good set of such exemptions could not have been allocated. Mrs. Minister knows that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u46	The Minister knows that she has been legislated to the top so that other tax exemptions could be attributed to the New Bank! So we are not going to put ourselves here in the air of innocents saying that with these exemptions the New Bank does not gain anything, that the State does not lose anything... It is appropriate to ask: then, why do they exist, if they do not heat or cool? Oh, my God! Mrs. Minister, I think, in the face of the situations that we have already lived...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u47	Madam Member, although you are using your time, you know what time is set for requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u48	Yes, of course, Mr President, and I'm really going to finish. Mr Minister, the Portuguese are 'burned' with the interventions that have already been made in so many banking institutions. The Portuguese, I believe, are already tired of seeing the country in deep damage because of a financial system that fattens, fattens, and then bursts, with gross losses to the country and gross charges to the State. And that's what it can't be, Mrs. Minister. It is this system that we need to have the will and courage to change, but the government does not do so, Mr Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u49	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is obvious that this debate will not go beyond what has happened at BES and that the lessons learned in the BES case, as in fact there are lessons learned with other cases, will have and will be a reason for extensive debate here. What happened at BES was, fortunately, radically different from what happened at BPN, from the point of view of who pays the bill. While at BPN we had a nationalization with direct costs for taxpayers, at BES we had a resolution and safeguard the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u51	It was good, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u52	But it is clear that the two cases, like other cases, have a common trait: they are banks that failed, they are synonymous with something that went wrong in our financial system and went wrong in supervision. So we need to learn something and we need to learn lessons from these cases. However—and this has been said not only by the CDS as well as by several parliamentary groups—it is necessary to be careful with the legislation made in a hurry, done on top of the event, because often in an attempt to solve the problems with immediate and easy solutions, we create problems worse than those we are trying to solve. I believe that many of the projects that are presented here not only by the majority benches have this care, others, of course, will not. With regard to this audit project and because there are lessons to be learned, I think it will remain for the memory of all that happened with the BES audit and until now loaded we had a Portuguese audit society that completely did not know what was going on in Angola, despite the president of both being exactly the same. In fact, what happened was a non-effective audit, which did not detect the problems and, when we found that 10 years earlier the problems had been detected, that audit society too was very quickly removed. But I wouldn't confuse two things—and I don't think that the government's project, sensibly, doesn't confuse. There is no better way to protect large companies, to protect listed companies or to protect banks who want to make sophisticated financial engineering or tax engineering than to put everything in the same bag and say that small and medium-sized companies, companies by quotas, need exactly the same level of official review of accounts or audits. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u53	There is no better way to protect anyone who wants to do a highly sophisticated engineering than to say: "Ah! Attention, there is a small company that also has the same engineering risk». You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u54	Eight million is not a small company!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u55	It's not too big!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u56	You don't! And putting everything in the same bag is a way to protect who actually wants to do it. Companies are not our enemies, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Who is our enemy is who wants to make accounts that do not match the truth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u57	They're two radically different things. I'm not starting with the assumption that every businessman wants to cheat. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr President, you have had your turn to speak and you will, of course, take it every time you understand it. Secondly, it would draw attention to the following: in Portugal, the problem of BES was in fact a case of audit that did not work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u58	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u59	... but with regard to a society, which is ESI, which had no official review of accounts, I would like to draw the attention of the Members. Members for the fact that we are talking about a Luxembourg law society and we here legislate for Portugal, we do not legislate for Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u60	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u61	Of course, Mr. President. Thanking you for your tolerance, Mr President, I conclude by saying that the problem that has been posed by a lack of official review of accounts is a problem that we, unfortunately, cannot solve here...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u62	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u63	...because we legislate for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u64	That's not true! Banco de Portugal didn't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u65	Perhaps we would like to legislate for other places, but we would like to legislate for Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u66	The Minister of State and Finance has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the questions raised, would like to reiterate, on the subject of the Banco de Portugal and the conclusions on the supervision of the Committee of Inquiry itself, that the final outcome of the intervention was that financial stability was maintained, that the interests of taxpayers and depositors were safeguarded. When we make a global assessment, we should also take into account what was the result of this action and what were the greatest interests in the presence that was possible to preserve, making this assessment as a whole. As regards the questions raised on the subject of the proposed amendments to the Code of Commercial Societies, Mr President. Members, speaking in numbers, until now only the supervision by ROC of anonymous companies which had a balance sheet of more than EUR 100 million was required, and they are all those who have a balance sheet of more than EUR 20 million. In the case of those who had a turnover of 150 million, they are those who have a turnover of more than 40 million. In view of the fact that anonymous societies are those of greater complexity, it makes every sense that the greatest requirement for audit is placed on those entities where there is a greater risk of action that is not correct and that may have consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u68	Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u69	And this balance sheet is proposed, by making this adjustment which greatly increases with the values I mentioned here — from 100 to 20 and from 150 to 40 million euros in demand — increasing the demand for ROC for commercial companies. An important issue, which was also addressed here by Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, has to do with governance. It is true, Mr President, and it is a matter which is not the subject of the legislative initiatives that are under discussion today — and I am not suggesting that these should necessarily be legislative initiatives — it is essential that one realizes what responsibility is actually on the company. In fact, I refer to this in my initial speech, saying that it is an obligation and the interest of everyone to work to preserve financial stability, which means that we cannot limit ourselves to having governance models that even deserve prizes and then verify that, in their practical application, there is no respect for these competences and too many people with non-executive positions who do not view these places with the responsibility they should face. So there is a problem of public discussion here, which must be done — and in Parliament too — about how we can change this culture of our companies to ensure that, in fact, beyond legislation, there is a culture of demand, of responsibility for those who are inside companies. It is not just to change the law and force the law to be formally fulfilled, it is to ensure that we promote a change of culture so that the responsibilities are shared by all, rather than being eternally in the role of the police who have to catch the thief. This role is fundamental, but it is important to discipline very much the role of the institutions, the internal control bodies, in relation to the weights that executives and non-executives should have and take out models that are only very good in the role to effectively place them in the practice of companies. This is a discussion that deserves to be held, but all these discussions benefit from the experience we have had, benefit from the mistakes and failures that have been detected. However, what we need to realize is that, in fact, with regard to the latter case, the case of BES, there was a very significant evolution, a very marked difference in relation to what was acting in the past and that allowed the results for the Portuguese to be effectively very different and that the taxpayers had been safeguarded. And that is an essential point that cannot be separated from our discussion. In fact, there was an injury to the country, undisturbed by the failure of a large bank of the system and a large group of the system, but its consequences could certainly have been far more serious if the action had not been this and if the problem had been discovered by the police authorities, as has happened in previous cases. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u70	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a proposal from the CFP, the Committee on Inquiry into the Management of BES and GES, which itself constituted an important tool for the development of truth, for the deepening of parliamentary knowledge about the functioning of the financial system and at the same time led many Portuguese people to see that mechanisms and dossiers are used by large financial capital, also exposing social and economic losses in the field of monopoly capital. Today's debate must be a new discussion space on the whole financial system and on the relations policies of the State, the collective interest, with the financial institutions which today represent essentially the interests of large financial capital, despite having been entrusted with an important public good: money, credit and financial stability itself. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate cannot be another moment of empty promises that no further collapse will happen in the bank. And this cannot be the case because the damage is too serious for all Portuguese and the country. After BPN, BPP, Banif, BCP, BES — and we do not know if others will not follow in the short term— it is time for this House to abandon once again the illusion that it is possible to avoid the problems of the financial system only with the solution of making supervision thicker. As if the supervision was the carpet under which the bank's problems are cleared, to be hidden but not to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u72	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but I would like to thank you for a little more silence in the room so that we can hear the speaker. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u73	over time, the CFP has presented several initiatives in the context of the development of the Committee of Inquiry to BES and on the functioning of the financial system. We proposed that the State take steps to find out where the money was, with the establishment of a technical unit for the completion of the final beneficiaries of the financial flows that read the BES. So far, this proposal from the CFP was the only proposal to follow the trail to the money that disappeared from BES and that should be in the hands of the State to respond to the losses of the bank. It did not come into effect because it was rejected by the PSD and the CDS, with the abstention of the PS. This proposal had been approved and the apparent conflict between Portuguese justice and Luxembourg courts could be mitigated, today being Portugal in a better position to defend national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u74	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u75	We have also presented, on an unprecedented initiative in the Assembly of the Republic, proposals for the extinction of tax havens and so-called offshores, as well as immediate measures to prohibit and control commercial and professional relations with entities based in non-cooperating tax havens or jurisdictions, proposals which await discussion, in particular within the Commission. We also proposed measures to stop the sale of assets from BES and GES, such as tranquility or the Santo Saúde Spirit. Today we bring to this debate three more initiatives aimed at two essential objectives: putting the financial system at the service of the country and ensuring that it is not the Portuguese that pays the holes of the banks and the cancellations of the bankers. We propose the public control of the bank, through the means which are revealed to be necessary, ensuring the placing of credit in the service of the economy and of the collective interest, imposing its use to the benefit of the interests of the large financial capital. To continue to act only on the surface of the problem, i.e. to continue to mean to the Portuguese that they can rely on the private bank because now it is that it is now that supervision will be good and stronger, it is, besides an ambush, a risk and a luxury to which the Portuguese cannot, nor do they want, give. Living above our possibilities is not having public services and rights, it is not having schools and hospitals, it is paying for the adventures and crimes of bankers who have already consumed about 15 billion euros of public resources since 2009. [[PCP applause.]] What do the Portuguese win with the private bank? Nothing! But you have everything to lose. What do the Portuguese lose with the public control of the bank? Nothing! But they have everything to win. The costs which the State assumes with interventions in the financial system — supervision financing, tax expenditure, loss of influence in credit policy — are not compensated in any way for any benefit that may bring to the private bank. The private bank actually represents a brutal cost for Portuguese and the economy, compounded by the fact that it is constantly suffering losses caused by the truly criminal management that many bankers do in their favor. If it is true that the public control of the bank alone does not determine the role that banks play, nor their management options, it is also true that only with that public control can the necessary steps be taken to ensure that banks, the commercial bank, are in fact serving the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]] The breakdown with right-wing policy, the construction of a policy that affirms national sovereignty, based on the enhancement of public rights and services, labour and production, implies the public control of the fundamental levers of the economy. In addition, the fact that only public control enables the conditions to be created so that the bank and the financial system do not depend on the character of the bankers, which, as it has been seen, does not provide great guarantees. And while public management options and democracy can determine the direction of the public bank, the kindness of a banker cannot be decreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u77	We also propose the immobilization and freezing of GES and BES assets to address the liabilities and commitments resulting from the current balance, reconstitute the group's configuration at the date of the shielding measures determined by Banco de Portugal and the reversal of the alienations of tranquility, BESI and Espírito Santo Saúde, in particular. Finally, we propose the amendment of the external audit model, making it mixed, i.e. no longer exclusively in the hands of private audit companies, which are paid by banks, providing for the existence of the Banco de Portugal's own resources to carry out the mandatory audits carried out by itself. In addition to measures aimed at improving the quality of illusion or the performance of illusionists, which, essentially, will strengthen the trust of depositors by masking the problems rather than solving them, it can be reduced to repeating the formula that brought us here and allowing the country to continue to be subject to new crises. And it seems that the majority and the government have not learned anything from the BES case : Carlos Costa, which leaves a bank bankrupt without any intervention, is appointed Governor again and Ricciardi, who has decapitalized and injured a bank, goes through good banker and continues to manage the BESI.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u78	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u79	What the CFP proposes in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not that the State, Banco de Portugal and CMVM continue to function as forgers of confidence in the private bank, but that they are the guarantor of trust in a public bank, which is at the service of the people and the country, and that, rather than being a financial capital domain instrument, it is an instrument of sovereignty and of superimposition of political power to economic power. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u80	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u81	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Socialist Party was very willing to hold a debate, and will on other occasions, on the process of appointing the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, the absence of invoking the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry on this choice, the way in which some of the statements made by some members of the Government in this Committee of Inquiry were quickly forgotten. The fact is that this is not the subject of this debate, and the worst thing we would do for a debate on regulation and on the proposals that arise from the Committee of Inquiry was to reduce it to a debate on the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, and that is why that is not the objective of our intervention. Many in Portugal are still wondering what the Committee of Inquiry has been for today, and that is what we have to do today. For us, it was clear from the outset that in a rule of law matters do not depend on Parliament, but it is up to us to explain this because, obviously, many would have the expectation that they would result from the Commission of Inquiry accusations and convictions. Fortunately, in a rule of law, these functions do not fall under political power. However, there is much to be withdrawn from the Committee of Inquiry. Of course, knowledge about what happened, because it happened, how it can be avoided, how it can be diminished. As part of the Committee of Inquiry, we have identified the responsibility of many people, but we must also have the ability to identify our own. The legislative power has responsibilities, from the outset, to learn from another accident and, from that accident, to draw lessons to improve the response, to improve regulation, to try to reduce — to the very least — to minimize, without also allowing the illusion that regulation, however fine it may be, will avoid further accidents in the future, will nullify the risk of new accidents in the future. We must all be aware that the risk is inherent in the financial system. For more answers we find, this risk will continue to exist. After each aviation accident, we learned and, with these lessons, we tried to reduce the probability of these accidents. The answer is never to prevent the plane from flying, but to reduce the likelihood of us having accidents again. The Socialist Party presents a framework of proposals arising from the lessons it takes from the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission and this particular accident. But there is one thing we do not do: the amendments we propose are made within the framework of economic and monetary union and within the framework of the Banking Union and the Socialist Party do not break with that framework and it is within that framework that we will do our work. We do not want to turn Portugal into an island, isolated from Europe or isolated from the Western world. We are part of a European and global financial system and it is within that framework that we present our proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And let me talk about some of them. One of the biggest problems identified throughout the Committee of Inquiry was the conflict of interest within one group. Simplifying : who asks or decides to apply for a loan is the same as deciding whether or not to grant. This is a clear problem, for which it is probably necessary to improve the law. The solution cannot be prohibited mixed conglomerates. And it cannot be for various reasons, because it is, of course, a wrong solution, even a lack of knowledge of industrial development in most industrialized countries. Mixed conglomerates are important development instruments. On the other hand, on the left, especially on the left, we must not forget that agrarian countries, at the end of World War II, such as South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, could only develop because they had strong mixed conglomerates. That is why it is wrong, from the point of view of economic policy, but it is also wrong because such a change is not done without being against the European framework, and it is possible to defend a breach with the European framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u82	No public control?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u83	She has to be taken. But, Faces and Dear Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the right solution, neither as economic policy nor as a European framework. Joint conglomerates may be important instruments, but obviously the laws that reduce the risk of conflict of interest in these conglomerates should be improved. Let us put forward some of the proposals. First, to prohibit a majority of administrators in a financial company from repeating themselves in a credit company controlled by that financial company. It's a barrier to taking a bank by a financial company that controls it. Second, to require the registration of the last beneficiaries of qualified holdings. We have the right to know who is behind companies that have qualified participations in banks — ensures transparency and ensures better control over the conflict of interests inherent in that connection. Third, discriminate in the annual report of credit institutions all transactions carried out between related parties, all transactions of the credit institution with shareholders, administrators, shareholders' and administrators' families. Fourth, to discriminate in the bank's annual report these operations ensure greater transparency, also ensure greater scrutiny of the conflict of interest inherent in financial activity. There are also a number of amendments that we propose as recommendations to the Government to defend within the European framework. We seek answers from our European partners to the problem of non-cooperating offshorers, non-cooperating jurisdictions, relations with subsidiaries of banks operating in non-cooperating jurisdictions. This is not done alone, i.e. it cannot be done within the national framework, we would not be solving any problems. The flows between Portugal and subsidiaries based in non-cooperating jurisdictions were, yes, transferred to other European countries, and we would be causing great inequality and difficulty in the Portuguese banking system and would not be solving the problem that some of the proposals want to solve; As regards the protection of clients, which have been strongly affected, there are legislative changes that we can trigger to reduce these problems, such as standardizing pre-contractual information in financial instruments, because discretion is still a lot, with regard to pre-contractual information about financial instruments between various banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u84	Sir, I'm asking you just for a second. I am grateful that there was a little more silence in the Chamber, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We'd like to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is essential that in the pre-contractual information available to customers be clear to those who are intended, to professional customers or to non-professional customers, as well as their adequacy to the interests, needs, customer risk profile, knowledge of the risks all of which involve that financial instrument, the guarantees of recovery of invested capital. The truth is that much of the pre-contractual information provided to many customers did not have much of this information that we want it to become mandatory. We were talking recently — and Mrs Cecilia Meireles reminded him — of the problem of placing the trade paper of Espírito Santo International, which was based in Luxembourg and placed commercial role with retail customers on BES counters. It was a holding that didn't have his audited or certified accounts. But the truth is that in this area we can do something in Portugal, from the very outset to prohibit it being possible to place with non-professional customers financial instruments from companies that do not have their accounts audited and certified by official auditors. That is what we can do in Portugal and, if that were the case today, we did not have the problem we have with the commercial role, because BES could never have put together its customers debt securities from a company that does not have the audited and certified accounts. We also suggest to the Government that we seek, with the Ministry of Justice and with a number of other entities, the possibility of studying the establishment of a more expeditious judicial or arbitral mechanism, allowing us to resolve some disputes that arise with financial crises more quickly. This is the case with the commercial role, which we cannot allow to drag for years in the ordinary courts and, in some situations, more urgent solutions are justified. With regard to the suitability of the administrators, we have also verified, throughout the Committee of Inquiry, the objective difficulty in suspending or revoking the suitability status. Thus, we strengthened the powers that would allow the Banco de Portugal, without condemnation, to suspend administrators, based on evidence but after communicating to the Public Prosecutor. We therefore try to meet the suggestion made by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, but with a legal solution that seems safer to us. On external auditors, the excess complicity between the external auditor and the bank that is audited is often identified. We therefore propose limiting mandates. I don't know if you know, but in Portugal, external auditors can be external auditors of a bank always, ab aeterno. Obviously this has risks in terms of promiscuity, complicity between the bank and the external auditor. What we propose is, with the limitation of mandates, to increase this independence, to reduce the risk of the auditor, to ensure successive recruitments, to do what the administrator is interested in but not in the common interest. What can no longer be accepted is cancelling one of the protection barriers, placing Banco de Portugal to choose external auditors. That's not possible, it's not even acceptable! Supervision is built with four independent barriers: administration, internal audit, external audit and supervision. Forceing supervision to choose external audit is to break down one of these barriers, it is to compromise Banco de Portugal with the third protection barrier. The best way to ensure protection is to have the static barriers between them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u86	What about the choice? Oh, my God! No choice? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u87	That is why such a solution makes no sense and in almost no way this solution is adopted. The Banco de Portugal, today, already has the possibility of having permanent teams in banks and it makes no sense to also hold Banco de Portugal accountable for the external audit. These are barriers that must be separate and independent from each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u88	Then you have to resort to an external audit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u89	One of the major problems also identified during the Committee of Inquiry was coordination and coordination between supervisors. There were several problems. The Banco de Portugal identified false accounts in ESI at the end of 2013 and only communicates them to CMVM in April 2014. It is not acceptable for our regulators not to be able to coordinate their action. That is why we strengthen the National Council of Financial Supervisors, extend its powers, give them the power to act together, have joint actions among all supervisors, and ensure regular meetings. We all know the occasional meetings of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, as well as the lack of stability and even the seriousness with which meetings were made not only like the decisions made there. We therefore want to ensure a mandatory periodicity—at least once a month—and the establishment of a permanent technical secretariat, which guarantees stability and permanence to the National Council of Financial Supervisors. This is the special forum to be able to articulate, coordinate action among supervisors, among our regulators. We also believe that the role of Parliament needs to be strengthened. That is why, within the framework of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, this Council is required to submit its annual report of activities not only to the Government but also to Parliament. It is a way to involve Parliament in the debate on regulation, in the debate on the stability of the financial system, a debate that is held not only between us and the government but between us and the regulators as well. As for non-executive administrators, they are too often repeated in dozens of administrative boards and on which they are permanently irresponsible. What we want is for a non-executive administrator not only to attend meetings, which have concrete responsibilities, and therefore we propose the establishment of two committees: a risk committee composed of non-executive administrators, which guarantees that these administrators will also be concerned about ensuring that the bank's risk strategy is met. That is also your mission. There must also be a committee on transparency and integrity, which gives non-executive administrators the responsibility to monitor and monitor transactions between related parties. It is not intended that a non-executive administrator will become executive but will follow the implementation of the risk control and internal control strategy of the bank where he is a non-executive administrator. With regard to the public monitoring of the processes of alienation of resolution-based institutions, today we are experiencing a process of alienation of an institution which results in a resolution-based measure. Our information is not what it should be. This is not a classic privatization, it is from a technical point of view a privatization. It is a bank controlled by a public institution, under public law, whose administrators are appointed by a public institution and by the Portuguese Government, in this case by the Ministry of Finance. It is justified that the process of alienation of this institution has a follow-up as it has a privatization. That is why we propose the establishment of a special committee to monitor the process of alienation of institutions from resolution measures. As we can no longer apply this measure to the New Bank, what we propose is that the Banco de Portugal remain responsible for the competences of that future special monitoring committee, for the submission of a final report on the alienation process, a report detailing the option that has been made, explains and bases on the option that has been made with regard to alienation, which ensures transparency and public monitoring at a very important time for us, the alienation in this particular case of the New Bank. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish, I would just like to say that we cannot at any time forget that this reform of regulation can reduce, avoid, even, it will not remove the risk with regard to banking crises or financial crises. They have been intensified for several years since the 1980s, and we must all be aware that there is a debate that must also be held by us, in Portugal and in the European area, and we must never forget that the liberalization of the movement of capital, the financial liberalization, the multiplication of offshores, have damaged or increased the frequency and intensity of financial and banking crises, and we need to give a systemic response to these new features of the world in which we live today. The euro itself and low interest rates have facilitated debt processes not only by the State, as we have often discussed here in Parliament, but by the Portuguese economy. It is that while the State has a public debt of 130 %, the Portuguese economy has a debt of 400 % of GDP. And we must all be aware that we will only be able to respond to systemic problems when we are also able to provide a systemic response to these same problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious debate, which requires that we discuss the concrete proposals. Whatever appeals they may be, this is the debate we wanted to mark today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u90	The Bureau had an inscription from Mrs Teresa Anjinho to ask Mr Pedro Nuno Santos a question, but he wasted his time. Therefore, I do not know whether you still want to make the request for clarification. [[Pause.]] Mrs Teresa Anjinho does not accept the request for clarification, so now she has the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the completion of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Management of BES and the Espírito Santo Group, several legitimately asked questions. Is everything going to be the same? What practical consequences will be removed? What role will Parliament play? The answers to these questions are not limited to the walls of the Assembly of the Republic, such as the recently reported developments regarding the arrest of property by judicial authorities or the evolution of the counter-ordinative processes carried out by the supervisory bodies well evidenced. But the Assembly of the Republic can and must be an integral part of the dynamics of change that must be assured. in this context, it is to welcome the fact that we are here today discussing, less than one month after the end of the Committee of Inquiry, a diverse range of initiatives proposed by the various parliamentary groups. Thus, the conditions are created so that, after an analysis of the speciality that is desired constructive and fruitful, important steps can still be taken in this legislature, in line with the transformation agenda outlined in the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, to ensure that the quality of financial systems is a central element in the affirmation of societies, within highly effective frameworks of operation, monitoring, auditing, supervision, supervision and articulation. For all this, the measures to be taken in this sector must also be taken with determination but without precipitation, with courage but without demagogy, with national commitment but within the framework of the European banking union in which we are located and we want to continue to sit. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is on the basis of this same position that the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups start to this discussion, while contributing to it through a wide range of measures which are shared by four draft resolutions and a draft law, initiatives covering different aspects essential to a healthy functioning of the financial system, pointing to, on the one hand, a significant increase in effectiveness, levels of collaboration and coordination between the supervisory bodies — one of the weaknesses identified also in the case of BES — with strengthened powers of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, extension of the scope of intervention and the range of entities that integrate the National Committee for Financial Stability, in which the Assembly of the Republic itself is included. Secondly, the implementation of restrictive and preventative measures for the marketing of financial products at risk, combating bad commercial practices and the subsequent sale of « cat per hare ». Thirdly, there is a need for greater transparency in the operation of the financial system, necessarily at an international level, because the financial system also operates on an increasingly global scale, by combating the existence of tax havens and their opacity. Fourthly, it stresses the need to consolidate the National Financial Training Plan ( PNFF ), with a particular focus among pensioners and pensioners, as well as the mandatory inclusion in school curricula of financial literacy promotion content. Fifthly, and lastly, in the list of initiatives taken by the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups, through the presentation of the bill establishing a genuine national system for the evaluation of real estate, which is intended to be credible, duly harmonised and controlled, consistent, independent, appropriate and common to all entities of the financial system, which corresponds to a paradigm change and a profound transformation in the way in which the assessment of real estate will be carried out, with recognised impacts on the balance sheets of financial institutions, as we well know and how the case of BES also helps to witness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The set of initiatives under discussion today is another decisive parliamentary contribution towards answering the initial questions, to which I return, to be made increasingly unequivocal. It will not remain the same, by learning from the mistakes and, responsibly, building ways of strengthening the quality, confidence and stability of the financial system. These paths are not exhausted, but they must also go through parliamentary initiatives, duly mature, consolidated and consensualized within what is the configuration of the European banking union. Even in the present Parliament, as you can see, Parliament and the PSD Parliament, within its responsible reformism position, give a clear signal and concrete contributions to the improvement of the financial system. In a serene, consistent and determined manner, with the mobilization of all relevant agents, this is the path of change that the Portuguese deserve and require us to travel. I believe we will. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u92	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u93	Mr President, Mr Saraiva, I would like to ask you two very specific questions. Today there are two doors that the bank can choose, the door by which all processes are supervised—well or badly supervised—and then a door by which the shadow-bank walks, in which no one controls anything. And the bank can choose. And as we carry supervisory measures on the first door, the bank goes for the second. The question I put to you, and the PSD today presents measures on this subject, particularly on offshore issues, is whether we should wait for an international decision or whether we should work for that decision, as, in fact, several forces propose today — the CFP has already proposed and the PSD itself today proposes - but, while waiting for it, the second door, in particular through the approval of the CFP initiative which is currently in the Commission's seat, is already waiting for discussion on the subject. Therefore, should we wait for international bodies to resolve or fight to resolve, but in what we can already see trade and professional relations and transfers to offshore? A second question, Member of Parliament, is the following : EUR 3900 million in the Resolution Fund ; EUR 3500 million in debt guarantees guaranteed in the BES, in the New Bank ; EUR 445 million in tax bills granted by the Government ; the exposure of the General Deposit Box to the GES, which is not yet fully assessed or, at least publicly assessed, all this constitutes the total potential public costs with this process. The PSD has changed its name to resolution, to pretend that, as a resolution, it has no costs, but these are the costs. The question that arises is whether the PSD will or will not ensure that it is not the Portuguese that is paying for the application of the resolution measure to BES, in particular by approving the project presented by the CFP for the immobilization of assets, the freezing of assets, so that the assets of GES and BES can respond to the liabilities of BES and GES, ensuring that no Portuguese, in addition to those who caused the losses, pays for the bank's removals in the case of BES. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u94	In reply, Mr Pedro Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u95	Mr President, Mr Miguel Tiago, I believe that this debate and the proposals that are on the table are clarifications, and it is good for the Portuguese to know them, in terms of what is a centre of debate where we understand that it is the way of evolution of the financial system, and we believe that this is the way that it should evolve, as a parliamentary group that, quoting a historical document that must know, of the 19th century, wants to move forward, not backward, the wheel of history. So, Mr. Miguel Tiago, I would say that in this matter there is no red line, there is a continuous double trait that divides us and yet it is clarifying to the Portuguese. For us, the evolution of the financial system does not go by nationalizing the bank, passing by the existence of a private bank, increasingly regulated, better audited, better supervised. And if anything history has taught us is also that this is a path that saves public history...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u96	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u97	... and improves the quality of operation of the financial system. These are the progress made in the context of the European Union where we want to continue to be. So this is the line that is insurmountable. Just remember how much it cost the public record a recent incident, centered on a nationalization solution, with BPN,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u98	It's no nationalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u99	... or just back in time—and let me now confide in you—and remember what the nationalization of the bank was in the times of the PREC.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u100	PSD is in favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u101	And to demonstrate that it would necessarily have more costs and would be worse for the country than the way we stand for, and within this line, we are available for the debate to invite us and our proposals will be concrete. But in time, for example, at PREC, I had the privilege of being in a party event this week, which took place in Pombal, in which there was a bank picture that had many decades of banking in Portugal and that passed through nationalization and for what was this time the life of Portuguese society. He was a director who directly supported the board of directors of a bank that was managed with some frugality and was nationalized during the PREC. And you know what he shared with me 40 years later? That the first three signs visible to him—and, we understand, I am not saying that in the whole bank it is so, but it happened in that concrete case and this came from whom he witnessed 40 years ago—, the three most symbolicly relevant impacts were : measure 1, increase the number of administrators, measure 2, buy top-of-the-range cars for all administrators, finding 3, exponential increase of the consumption of cigars on the board. That way we do not want, Portugal does not want it. I think the Portuguese are clear. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] There is this border between those who want to nationalize the bank and those who believe that it is not that our financial system should evolve. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u102	These two are the Salgado/Oliveira and Costa benches!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u103	At least the Gonçalves Garden was on a helicopter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u104	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor, whom I would like to congratulate on being today the day of her birthday. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Much has already been said here about the need to learn from the BES case. And it's not by chance, it's because that's one of the points—not many, but that's one of the points—where we all agree. If it is true that the BES case was very different from the BPN case, it is also true that both have one thing in common: they cannot and should not happen again. And from here, there are several illusions. But there is an illusion that is also important: that, in order for problems to be solved in a stable and perennial manner, it is necessary to consider, especially in matters which are technical and complex. And we must not forget in this debate — and this too has been said — that we do not legislate in other countries, we do legislation in Portugal, and Portugal is not an island. We certainly want to solve many of the problems of the Portuguese bank, but we also do not want a Portuguese company, to have access to credit or banking, to go to Badajoz, to a Spanish agency. Of course, that's not what we want either. From that point of view, and taking into account these limitations, we present several projects. The first of them has to do with the marketing of financial products, vulgar, the commercial role, which has become one of the major problems of BES, problem, indeed, not yet solved. Here, it is important to say that what we do must correspond to what we can actually do. And from the point of view of the trade role, we do not want to eliminate the risk, we want to eliminate the deception. That is, anyone who wants to have access to certain products, anyone who wants to take a risk by buying certain products, must be entitled to purchase and take risks. What can't happen is people being deceived and buying « cat by hare ». Moreover, as has already been said here, we cannot change the trade law of companies that are in Luxembourg, Switzerland, France or the Netherlands, but we can change the rules of financial products that are traded in Portugal, and that is what is being proposed. from our point of view, it is important that these instruments become controlled by the CMVM and that there is no longer the escape, in fact, used in the case of the BES, of the particular emissions that escaped the surveillance, whoever it is. Secondly, it is important to introduce a product segregation rule. We can create many mechanisms, many alerts, many prospects, but the truth is that it is much more effective than anyone who wants to access this type of product or the people to whom these products are proposed are forced to talk to a different interlocutor in a different physical space. This is much more effective than having a prospect that is very elucidative, that has 10 or 100 pages, but that people will not read. Once again, it is found that supervision, to be effective, must be demanding from a material point of view. One of the lessons of the BES case is that we had an excessively formal supervision. It is far more important to have a technician able to ask the right questions at the right time than to have several Banco de Portugal technicians in the institutions, who spend the day reading ata and never ask the right questions. Supervision is by no means bureaucracy, and the truth is that in some cases both have been confused, which cannot and should not happen again. Another of our projects speaks of the articulation between supervisors. This aspect was particularly shocking in the case of BES and it is not by chance that it arises now. In this case, even though legislation already provides for a specific organ — one can imagine a specific organ! — for the supervisors to sit down and talk, the truth is that this has not happened, or, on the other hand, it has happened. In fact, this body met, and met until key heights, as happened in November and December 2013 and at the beginning of 2014, but at the time when the Banco de Portugal already knew that there was a society, and a very important society, which had accounts that did not correspond to reality, and at the same time the CMVM knew that the commercial role of that company was being marketed, in fact, to replace a financial application that the CMVM itself had forbidden, the two supervisors did not speak - and, having not spoken, acted later than it would have been possible if they had indeed spoken. It is true that the law already provides for an organ to be made this articulation, and it is important that supervisors realize that the law and the material intention of the law is to comply. But, in any case, we propose another type of measures, very concrete measures to make this joint ever more effective, realizing that supervision, being different, is not stagnant and that there will always be contact areas between the three supervisors. We presented several other projects, for example, on evaluators of real estate experts, which was also an area that was more or less away from our discussions and, often, from discussions about the financial system and that the BES case, for the worst reasons, also brought back. Finally, we bring in other projects, some of which increase financial literacy and others more transparency with regard to the so-called « tax havens ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will undoubtedly all have opinions on tax havens and offshore havens and my personal opinion is that they make very little sense. Indeed, if we simply prohibit transactions with these paradises, there is a very easy and very obvious solution to this: a transaction is made for a country that permits it and then for that country. That simply does not solve the problem. In fact, if the problem was easy to solve, it would probably be solved. However, we can, from the point of view of international bodies, exert pressure so that these countries and these systems are increasingly a reality, because, in fact, we are all losing them and very few are winning. I would end by saying that the case of BES was almost, pardoning England, a case study of much that should not happen. However, it was also an example of how a very difficult situation can be resolved, safeguarding some fundamental interests. The truth is, in the case of BES, much bad happened, but it is also true that, yes, the resolution maintained the interests of taxpayers and also maintained the interests of depositors and those who had their savings stored in Banco Espírito Santo. It is important to find more and more balanced ways to safeguard these two interests, which are the fundamental interests, but it is also important that, now that this problem is overcome, the New Bank can be sold—and be sold in an advantageous way to the State, in an advantageous way for the financial system and for the stability of the financial system—and that this page can be overcome and no longer be opened. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u106	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u107	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the PSD and the CDS are here today to defend that more layers are added to the supervisory system, that there are some restrictions here, more transparency there, some joint wells, all seasoned with a bit of financial literature—and that is it! The problems of the private bank end, taxpayers can sleep restless, they will never be called to pay for bankers' removals! Madam Member, this is a dangerous illusion, an illusion that keeps the banking system in private hands and allows the banks to continue to be used as vehicles for the concentration of capital and for the reconstitution of economic and financial groups, without any guarantee that they are at the service of the country and that their practices do not entail any further costs for the Portuguese people. Mrs Deputy, the private management of the banks has a very high cost for the Portuguese. After BPN, BPP, BCP and Banif, we now have a State intervention at BES / New Bank, which could cost billions of euros to the public record. They have already been ‘buried’ in the New Bank EUR 3900 million, without any guarantee of return. But this is not all, Mrs. Member. The Government has also decided to grant at least EUR 445 million of tax benefits to the New Bank and refuses to say exactly what the value of this benefit was. In addition to this, the General Deposit Box exposure to BES in hundreds of millions of euros, which will hardly be recovered, even partially. Mrs. Member, who pays for all this? Who pays these billions of euros? By option of PSD / CDS coalition, and also PS, are always the contributors to pay. They're always the contributors! But, Mrs. Member, it doesn't have to be that way. The CFP today brings to the discussion a proposal to be the assets of the Espírito Santo Group and BES, as well as the assets and assets held, directly or indirectly, by members of the Superior Council of the Espírito Santo Group, to respond to the liabilities and losses that are to be identified in the New Bank, assets and assets that must be immobilized or whose sales must be reverted so that they are not the Portuguese again to pay for the losses but, yes, the assets of the Bank and the Group and who have benefited from them. Madam Member, what does the CDS have to say about this proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u108	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u109	Who wants to pay for the losses of the New Bank? The Portuguese, their salaries, retirement pensions and taxes or those responsible for the breakdown of the BES and its heritage? The PCP, Mrs Deputy, knows exactly which side it is on and affirms its choice clearly: the interests of the Portuguese and the country are above the interests of the bankers. What is the CDS option? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u110	To reply, if you understand that, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u111	Mr Paulo Sá, so that there is no doubt about it, the CDS is against the nationalization of the entire financial system. I don't think there's any doubt. Only by rhetoric can the question be asked, because there is no doubt about it. And I explain why: this is not a position without reason and there is, in fact, a fundamental difference between the CFP. The CFP, which defends the nationalization of the entire financial system, can hardly prove it in practice. In fact, the examples in this matter are not happy at all—it is not by chance that the CFP never quotes them—because, in reality, these models lead to a bank that is not at the service of the country and much less of the people. These examples of nationalization worked badly. And it is not surprising that anyone who criticizes the conglomerates also sees that the nationalization of all major productive means and of the bank leads to a mega-conglomerate that will hardly serve the remaining private companies, which are of course very few. The honourable Member accused me of selling illusions and saying that these proposals solve all the problems. Mr President, I know nothing in life that solves all the problems. These illusions usually come from your bench, not from here. What I recognize is that some legislation, some regulation, some control, where necessary, can, yes, solve and mitigate some problems. But I don't know any magic solution that completely prevents everything from going wrong. This simply does not exist, and much less the nationalisation of the bank. It is not by chance that you cannot point to a single example of a single country in which there has been a nationalisation of the bank and that this has solved all the problems; on the contrary, it has created very much worse problems than those you were trying to solve. With regard to the heritage, Mr Deputy, much of the BES's heritage has in fact moved to the New Bank. I do not know whether you want to now that toxic assets are also moving to the New Bank. I don't think it's advisable! There is a reality that you will never be able to spread: nationalization, which is what you are defending, leads to nationalization, in fact, damage, because it is inevitable that this is so. It is not possible to nationalize only profits, especially because we are nationalizing a bank with difficulties. It is obvious that if the heritage that is there were to keep the bank in operation, it would not have been necessary either nationalisation or resolution or anything. Finally, the resolution does indeed defend the interests of taxpayers. Question: Who pays? The financial system, through the Resolution Fund, of course, which first pays the shareholders of BES and GES, who are left without their ownership and without the assets that are worth money, which was what happened. Secondly, it pays the subordinate creditors of these companies, who also lack the heritage that guarantees their credits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u112	And the immobilization of assets?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u113	The interesting assets have already gone to the bank, Mr. It is simply not possible to do what you want, which is to nationalize everything, those of that bank, those of other banks and those of almost all companies in Portugal. It's your model! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u114	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u115	And it is not by chance that they start shouting whenever they are confronted with this reality. It's to disguise the fact that she's true. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not by chance that you are unable to set a single example.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u116	You've noticed you don't mean anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u117	They are able to scream a lot, but they are not able to give an example, because all the examples that have from countries where this has been done have led to the misery of the peoples. That's the truth! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the vote is scheduled for 12 hours. I have sought to know whether there would be any consensus in terms of allowing this debate to come to an end. Since there is no such consensus, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to point out that in the votes that will take place on the subject currently under discussion it will no longer be considered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 203 presences, to which 4 are added, by 207 Members, so we have quorum to vote. First of all, Mr President-in-Office has the floor to read vote No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Jorge Morais Barbosa ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution is as follows: « Jorge Manuel de Morais Gomes Barbosa was born on June 29, 1937, in Lisbon, and died on May 2, 2015, at 77 years of age. In love with knowledge and lyrics, Jorge Morais Barbosa was a prominent personality of the Portuguese academic community, giving much of his life to the study of Portuguese language and literature. Man of strong political convictions, never gave up his contribution to the country and to the construction of democracy, having played political functions in the representation of his party, the CDS. He graduated in 1958 from Romanian Philology at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon and doctorate in 1966 at Letras ( Linguistics ) at the University of Paris ( State Doctorate). Three years later, when he was only 32 years old, he rose up as a professor and since then assumed himself as the dean of Portuguese linguists. He was an ally to the academic and university environment throughout his career, having taught in several Portuguese and foreign universities. Author of an extensive bibliography, with published works and numerous articles in scientific journals, Jorge Morais Barbosa never gave up research and scientific production in his area. He retired in 2007 as Professor Professor of Portuguese Linguistics of the Portuguese Language and Literature Institute of the Faculty of Letters of the University of Coimbra. His remarkable journey of decades was distinguished by the certainty that he had sensitized several generations to the beauty of letters and, in particular, the Portuguese language. Faithful to the values of Christian democracy, Jorge Morais Barbosa was, in addition to a master of the language, a man with a strongly political nature and very dedicated to defending the principles he believed in. He was elected Member on the CDS lists to the Assembly of the Republic for 3. the Legislature and, within the party, performed several functions, having been President of the Concelhia de Cascais Assembly of the CDS and Delegate to the District Assembly of Lisbon. Determined, even when already withdrawn from active political life, he never gave in to the defense of his ideas or stopped fighting for them, as it was public and notorious in his resilient opposition to the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. An inspiring man, a captivating eloquence and a vibrant passion for the lyrics, all who learned from him view him as an tireless palate of the Portuguese language. For the defence of this national heritage, which is the language, and for all the work in the sense of its valorization, the Portuguese are grateful to him and regret his disappearance. The Assembly of the Republic thanks Jorge Morais Barbosa for his perseverance in public service, becoming an individual reference of Portuguese society, and presents to all his family and friends his heartfelt condolences, joining all those who mourn his loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Jorge Morais Barbosa ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence in honor of Prof Jorge Morais barbosa. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on draft resolution No 1481 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Bulgaria and Romania ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1478 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — The promotion of personal autonomy / independent life of persons with disabilities ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1471 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Create a pilot programme for a « Independent Life Support scheme » for people with aggravated disabilities ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u121	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u122	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u123	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote of the two previous diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u124	With or without tears?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u125	It is registered, Mr Raúl de Almeida. We shall generally vote on Bill No 331XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to revise the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Public Contracts, the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building, the Law of Procedural Participation and Popular Action, the Legal Regime of Administrative Protection, the Law of Access to Administrative Documents and the Law of Access to Information on the Environment. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall then, in general, vote on Bill No 325 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Procedure 37. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, fully transposed Directives 2008 / 99 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on protection of the environment by criminal law, and 2009 / 123 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 amending Directive 2005 / 35 / EC on pollution by ships and the introduction of sanctions in the event of infringements. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, BE and the Greens, and with a abstention from the CFP.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Bill No. 324 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 959 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September — Compensation scheme for victims of violent crimes and domestic violence ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, the EPO and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We generally vote for Bill No 961 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 327 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Defines the rules for the financing of humanitarian firefighter associations on the continent as firefighter bodies. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 1444 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the public tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u126	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u127	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u128	Mr President, I believe that after we move forward with the votes on the BES / GES Group and the supervision of the banking sector, we move directly to page 12 of the vote script to vote on draft resolution No 1484/ XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u129	That's it, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u130	This diploma has not yet been presented in plenary, although it is on our agenda. Therefore, it cannot be voted on because it has not been announced. We shall therefore vote on draft resolution No 1444 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u131	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u132	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u133	Mr President, I am sorry, but before we vote on this motion for a resolution, we have to vote on motion for a resolution No 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u134	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u135	This initiative has no time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u136	It is the same situation with regard to the other diploma. This initiative has not been announced, we have not reached this point in the debate. Mrs. Members, let us then vote on the initiative which the Bureau was referring to, draft resolution No 1444 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the public tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1158 / XII — Recommends to the Government the monitoring of PSA modernization projects — Peugeot Citröen in Mangualde ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1460 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the evaluation of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August, in particular as regards the extension of the competence framework, modalities and financing of the Information and Support Offices in the field of Health Education and Sexual Education ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft law No 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on Decree-Law No 172 -A / 2014 amending, under and in the development of Law No 30 / 2013 — Basics of the Social Economy Act of 8 May, the Statute of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity, as annexed to Decree-Law No 119 / 83 of 25 February, as amended by Decrees-Leisn. 9 / 85 of 9 January, 89 / 85 of 1 April, 402 / 85 of 11 October, and 29 / 86 of 19 February [ Parliamentary assessment No 123 / XII of 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vote script a request by BE for the full vote in the speciality of Articles 27 is followed. o -A, 27. o-B and 27. the C referred to in Article 4 ( 2 ). the draft law No 765 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ). To make the request, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor, which is available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fight against illicit enrichment, now changed for unjustified enrichment, was a missed opportunity in the Assembly of the Republic. And why? Not merely because of the obstinacy of the majority to make a cosmetic change in relation to an initiative that plunged into the contrary vote of the Constitutional Court in all its judges, not only because of this obstinacy, I repeat, but, more than that, it is a missed opportunity to deduce, to fight a tumor of the democratic regime. There is a legal arc to combat corruption and wealth without cause, which is defective, which is limited, which needs to be completed. And a law against unjustified enrichment is absolutely necessary to deduce this tumor in the democratic regime, without which, in addition to other reasons, democracy goes to the oligarchy, which is incompatible with the essence of the Constitution of the Republic. In the present case, the Left Block, with another systemic organization, seeking amendments to the Law on Crimes of Liability of Political and High Public Charity Holders, presents here, by avoking, three articles in the specialty, which would allow such simple changes to the conditions and guarantee, within the limit, deprivation of liberty for those who omit statements on incomes, for those who make statements of income incur falsehood in those declarations, considering the loss of goods in favour of the State in all these circumstances and also an accessory penalty for inhibiting the exercise of functions both for senior public office holders and for holders of political positions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we protect a legal good: the duty of special transparency of state officials. This is a challenge that will be open after this missed opportunity. There's a step here. But, especially for citizens and citizens, they will point their fingers and say that this regime has no concert and does not repair and, therefore, something needs to be done about the essential aspects of a democratic regime that is sick. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u138	On the same subject, a request was also made by the CFP for a lawyer by the plenary of the discussion and a special vote on Articles 1. o is 2. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 798 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ), presenting in its replacement proposals for Articles 1. o, 2. o, 3. o, 4. o, 5. it's 6. o. To make the request, Mr António Filipe has the floor, which also has two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the majority of PSD/CDS transformed this legislative process that aimed to criminalize the unjustified enrichment into a real ambush.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u140	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u141	A real ambush, because the PSD, in particular, has always stated its determination to overcome the problems of unconstitutionality raised by the Constitutional Court in the last legislative process and has stated its willingness to open up to dialogue, to consensualize solutions that could, of course, be approved. In the end, we verified that the only consensualization effort the PSD made was with the CDS, and there it remained. He did not accept one more comma that was proposed by any other parliamentary group. That is, hearings were made, constitutional objections were presented to the bill presented by the majority, but the majority prefers to insist on maintaining provisions that are unequivocally unconstitutional in the light of the Constitutional Court's judgment on this same matter. Therefore, citizens will say that after all, you were in the Assembly of the Republic pretending that you wanted to criminalize unjustified enrichment. by approving a text that they knew perfectly well that would not go through the constitutionality crisis, you are pretending, you are making a legislative mistake. And when the citizens accuse them of this, we cannot take them away because you have been warned by all sides of the opposition about the problems of the text they were preparing to approve. And they insist on that approval! Where the Constitutional Court says that it was necessary to define precisely what legal good to defend, you have to approve a little girl who is not quite legal and has no capacity to define a particular legal good.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u142	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u143	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Constitutional Court noted the existence of an inversion of the burden of proof, but you fully retain a text in which all the problems posed by the Constitutional Court remain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u144	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u145	Therefore, you do not want to criminalize illicit enrichment. That is the truth that you will not be able to lie. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u146	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on the first request by BE for the full vote in the speciality of Articles 27. o -A, 27. o-B and 27. the C referred to in Article 4 ( 2 ). the draft law No 765 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on the request by the CFP for a full debate and vote in particular on Articles 1. o is 2. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 798 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ), presenting in its replacement proposals for Articles 1. o, 2. o, 3. o, 4. o, 5. it's 6. o. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, since the requests have been rejected, we shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 798 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now vote, in general, on the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning draft law No 382 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), which extended Portuguese nationality originating in Portuguese children born abroad ( PSD ). Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u147	Madam President, I believe that we must first vote on the request for a lawyer presented by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that first we have to vote on the replacement text in general and only after the vote on the application. Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u149	Mr President and the Bureau will decide how they will feel better, but what we now have is a general replacement text presented by 1. the Commission. If the application submitted by the PS is approved and the corresponding proposals are now also voted on and approved, they are included in the global replacement text of 1. the Commission, which makes everything much easier. I therefore believe that, in order to facilitate the work, the request should be voted on, then the immediate amendments to the text of global substitution and then the subsequent votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u150	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with due respect, Mr Jorge Lacão is not right, because the Socialist Party's request for a lawyer is related to the discussion on the speciality of a bill that has been submitted and that has had a replacement text. In fact, counsel focuses precisely on the replacement text, and we can only appreciate it in the specialty after there is a general approval. So the way the script is made is correct. That is to say, first we must vote in general, then we must vote in favour, then, if it is approved, we must discuss, in the specialty, the content of the request and then proceed to the vote in the speciality and the overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u152	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u153	Mr President, with regard to this vote, I believe that Mr Luís Montenegro's interpretation is not correct, because there has been a replacement text and the author's initiative has been withdrawn, there is no place for the vote in general of the replacement text ; what takes place is the vote in the specialty, which is also expected to be ratified by the votes that have been set aside in the Commission. The methodology that we consider correct is therefore the following: firstly, to vote on the request submitted by the PS ; then to vote on the proposal ; then, if eventually it is approved, to proceed to a second vote, which is the ratification of the indexary votes in all other articles other than the one on which the PS proposal is concerned ; and then to proceed to a third vote, which is the overall final vote. In the case of a replacement text, there is no general vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u154	Mr President, the sensitivity I have is that we should first vote on the replacement text, insofar as there has never been any vote on this matter in the Assembly of the Republic, and from there we will, of course, start to deliberate. This is the understanding of the Bureau. You have the word Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u155	Mr President, if I may, the replacement text results from the vote in the specialty, so as long as there is no vote in the specialty in plenary there is no replacement text. That is why we cannot vote in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u156	Mr President, the opinion of the Bureau is that the general vote should take place first. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall generally vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 382 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), which extended Portuguese nationality originating in Portuguese children born abroad ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Francisca Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u157	Mr President, I would just like to note that on my own behalf and on behalf of Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I will present a statement of vote on the vote that we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u158	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now turn to the vote on a request by the PS for a vote by the plenary on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to Article 1. the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 382 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), which extended Portuguese nationality originating in Portuguese children born abroad ( PSD ). To make the request, Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If another was the methodology in the votes that are now taking place, as I have just suggested, perhaps we could have waived these procedures, which may seem a little strange in relation to the voting positions which, however, I hope will then be recorded. The fact is that the vote against which, like other parliamentary groups, the Socialist Party took place in the indexary vote, in 1. the Commission, means that the formulation presented by the PSD and the CDS regarding a new possibility of acquisition originating in Portuguese nationality could not in any way deserve the broad consensus that to date, always happily deserved the amendments to the Nationality Law. That is why we became politically involved in a completely constructive formula to raise awareness among all parliamentary groups, including, of course, the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups, in order to create the possibility of an evolution in the weighting of the text, which would allow the extension of the consensus desirable in such a sensitive matter for the definition of Portuguese nationality. This request, Mr President, is presented following, fortunately, and I say with conviction, we have found a platform of understanding. I therefore hope that this request can be approved, so that the platform of understanding can emerge quickly here in the plenary in the following votes, as all Portuguese well deserve to take place, in a consensual climate in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u160	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on this request, tabled by the PS. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we proceed to the speciality vote, there is a debate period, within which each parliamentary group has two minutes. Mr António Filipe has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to record positively the fact that this request for counsel has been approved, because in fact it allows to transform the one who was an impossible text, at least, into a text that will not have our opposition. However, what was proposed was something unacceptable with regard to what is the building of the Portuguese Nationality Law, because it was to consider that someone who did not qualify to be Portuguese by naturalization, would, by administrative means, be able to be Portuguese originating, of origin, and could even become President of the Republic. In other words, someone who was not a son of Portuguese, neither father nor mother of Portuguese, who did not live in Portugal, was assigned to him administratively, by declaration of will, Portuguese nationality. This was a profound change throughout the Portuguese Nationality Law building. What we are now proposing is that, basically, in the regime that already exists today for the acquisition of nationality by naturalization, where we have to demonstrate some connection to the national community, this acquisition is now called, not by naturalization, but by origin, which is not, we agree, great solution, but, in any case, it makes it possible to avoid what would be a horrendous mistake. Therefore, there is now a qualification of a nationality acquisition no longer by naturalization, that is, more or less by the same rules, to qualify itself as originating, which, in spite of all, unequivocally, is superintendent. But, finally, a greater evil is avoided and, in this case, we no longer see reason to vote against this text, we think that it does not innovate much and will therefore have our abstention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u162	Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u163	Mr President, I would expect Mr President to acknowledge that I should have been invited to speak first, as the author of the proposal, by the PS bench. But let's go to whatever matters. What matters, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a happy outcome in a matter that could not have gone well. We are all genuinely concerned about creating conditions for the Portuguese diaspora to be identified with the national community. It is also very important to remember here that the first major step taken, and today enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, was the one that, by recognizing the existence of effective links to the national community, allowed the right to vote to migrants in the election to the President of the Republic. For this solution to have taken place, the Socialist Party, at that time, contributed powerfully to the consecration of the Constitution. We therefore fully agree that it is possible to assign by law nationality to those who have descended into 2. the degree of Portuguese and that we do so, however, through the objective demonstration of the existence of effective links to the national community. This was not the solution established in the version initially presented. Therefore, according to a concern that corresponded to a genuine State responsibility, we could have had no other vote, in general, than to vote against a totally incorrect formulation. But for the same reason of concern, we now welcome the solution put forward by the Socialist Party as a good vote, after contacts between the various sides, as I said, so that it could be established. And that's why I anticipate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u164	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u165	... congratulating me that the adoption of the proposal now put forward by the PS will also allow us, in a comprehensive final vote, to vote in favour of this diploma. This will achieve an objective of the greatest importance: a broad consensus, because it deserves it, around the Portuguese Nationality Law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u166	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the first thing we have to recognise, with regard to the Members who have taken the initiative, in particular the Members elected by the circles outside the national territory, is that this proposal, in its original intention, is a proposal of great generosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u169	...in relation to citizens who have descendants of Portuguese and who want to be Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Then, Mr President, this recognition, I want to say that this proposal, in fact, has encountered some difficulties and, in its original formulation, it did not have a given that, moreover, it has been pointed out as criticism by whom, apparently now, despite its resolution, it maintains criticism — which is most unusual — that there was no reference to the effective link between these citizens to the national community. And the second thing that needs to be recognised here, Mr President, is that the majority immediately made an effort to solve this problem. Therefore, this process has stopped, there has been a repo, there has been a meeting and the formulation we have today, the formulation that comes here today is no longer the original formulation, includes the idea that, in addition to declaring that they want to be Portuguese, they declare that they have links to the national community. Regardless of this, of the improvement that has already been introduced, the Socialist Party, a little over the hour — that is, Mr Jorge Lacão, without wanting to break the consensus — came to propose a new amendment and a new improvement, which I think between yesterday and today is a long process after this process. We read the Socialist Party's proposal and, reading this proposal, we concluded that, even because of some discussion we had in 1. the Commission could improve the text here today. And then, contrary to what is sometimes intended, the majority, once again, was tolerant, was reasonable, was understanding. The original authors analyzed the proposal and came to the conclusion... [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to break the consensus, but listen! We're trying to generate this consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u170	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u171	I conclude, Mr President, but there is a fact that it is important to mention, so I ask you for another 15 seconds. As I was saying, we looked at the proposal and concluded that this effort was worth it. We have spoken, talked and we will establish a consensus on the Socialist Party's proposal. There is only one fact, Mr. Jorge Lacão, which has to be rectified: we believe that for these citizens the criterion of having a residence in Portugal, which is contained in the proposal as written by the Socialist Party, is not acceptable and will have to be established another solution, such as that of regular contacts with the Portuguese territory. I therefore hope that the Socialist Party will make this amendment and that there will be consensus. The Law of Nationality will have a broad consensus, will not, I hope, vote against, and this will, in fact, be the demonstration that these citizens deserve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u172	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u173	... that the original proposal is generous and Portugal is much greater than its territory. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u174	Mr Hugo Velosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word has to be said regarding the persistence of the PSD Members elected by the communities, who, since the first hour, have been fighting for this issue of enormous justice, the claim of Portuguese descendants. I would also like to greet the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities who is present here, because I know that the Secretary of State has also been a defender of this solution since the first hour. I want to tell the Socialist Party that it is good that you have reached a solution. This situation lasted for many months. The Socialist Party, until yesterday, as much as I know, although I only received the replacement text today, never wanted to collaborate on a solution. The PSD and the CDS have done everything to find a solution, in particular by presenting a proposal for a replacement which has been voted on indirectly in 1. the Commission, proposed, which was already meeting some of the issues that were raised and, above all, concerned, we have to say, that for the descendants of 1. the degree already had an original acquisition and now it was about extending to descendants in 2. the degree. If the gentlemen. Deputies who were against never did anything to end originating nationality for descendants in 1. the degree, we do not realize why they made so much noise around this question of descendants in 2. the degree.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u176	Because they are descended on 2. The degree!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u177	So I want to say that we also gave our consensus to the wording proposed by the Socialist Party, because we also had doubts about the solution. The doubts existed, but what we wanted was that in the end the legitimate claim of these Portuguese, descendants of Portuguese residents abroad, would be approved by Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u178	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u179	Mr President, this process has been reasonably disrupted and there is a text that changes everything within 24 hours. It seems to us that the majority has forgotten that they have a regime agreement with the PS on some sensitive matters, particularly on this one, and that perhaps it has agreed today, finally, I do not know for the insistence of the CDS itself. In fact, the text we were here to vote here originally was an impeccable text, because someone who was not Portuguese by naturalization, following the criteria of the law, would become of origin, in a completely administrative way. We believe that there is a sensitive improvement in the text; in any case, the fundamental question relates to the evaluation of the law itself in force. We understand that the criteria that exist today in relation to the process of naturalization are, in our view, appropriate criteria. We must not forget that we are here talking about the grandchildren whose parents have lost their ties with our country and, in this sense, recognizing the progress and this awakening of the majority for a regime understanding with the PS, we will abstain from voting on this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u180	The Bureau no longer registers, so we will proceed to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u181	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u182	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u183	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u184	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u185	Mr President, it is to request that the latest version be distributed, which has been subscribed by the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party who deserved our call. I fear it here, it is true, because the Socialist Party has made it available to us, but the Bureau has not yet distributed it and there can be no doubt about the final text that will be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u186	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u187	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u188	Mr President, exactly in the same light as Mr Luís Montenegro's intervention to underline the following: I could have helped to generate this misunderstanding recently, because we did not actually have the official distribution. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes kindly brought us a version, I know that the PS has already delivered it to the Bureau, but it has not been distributed to all parliamentary groups. As Mr Luís Montenegro has said, we have not received either. It is therefore important to have the exact notion of what we are voting on, because we have not received it, Mr President. If everyone has already received it, the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u189	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u190	You have the floor to Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u191	Mr President, I have just confirmed with the services the DAPLEN ( Division of Support for the Whole) which has been distributed the latest version, which replaces the first one. So there's a problem, because the PCP and the Left Block have the proposal, only the majority benches don't have them, and I've already given what I have.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u192	I have the information that this documentation has just been distributed. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to Article 1. the ( Amendment to Law 37 / 81 of 3 October) of the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning draft law No 382 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) — extends Portuguese nationality originating in Portuguese children born abroad ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS and CDS-PP voted in favour of PS members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves and abstained from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] [[It is as follows: Article 1 Amendment to Law No 73/2013 of 3 September... ‘Article 1... 1 — They are Portuguese of origin: (a)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2 —.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 — (New) The verification of the existence of effective links to the national community for the purposes set out in paragraph 1 (d) implies the recognition by the Government of the relevance of such links, in particular by the sufficient knowledge of the Portuguese language and by the existence of regular contacts with the Portuguese territory, and depends on the non-condemnation, with transit in judgment, of the practice of punishable crime with imprisonment of a maximum of 3 years or more, according to Portuguese law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u193	We proceeded to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to the replacement text submitted by the same Commission on Bill No 382 / XII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Les Verdes and with abstentions from PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u195	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u196	Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear that the vote we just voted on had to do with the taking of the votes that were taken in the Commission, we did not vote again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u197	Yes, sir, we have just voted for the plenary vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u198	Exactly. We voted for the plenary of the Commission's vote on the other articles, not the one on which the PS proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u199	Yes, sir. Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to a vote whose result will be determined by an absolute majority of Members in effective office, by means of an electronic vote in accordance with Article 166 ( 2 ). Article 168 ( 5 ) and ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 94 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. This is the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 382 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) — extends Portuguese nationality originating in Portuguese children born abroad ( PSD ). First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with 182 votes in favour (PSD, PS and CDS-PP), 2 votes against (Ps Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves) and 23 abstentions (PCP, BE and Os Verdes).]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the Rules of Procedure is concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u201	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u202	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Delgado Alves, we will present a vote statement on the vote just took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u203	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume our agenda, in particular the debate we are interrupting. The Bureau now records Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u204	Mr President, Mrs Minister of State and Finance, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It has already been stated today that we must draw lessons from the BES case. It is a question that unites, as a principle, I believe, all parliamentary groups and all Portuguese, something else could not be said, thought and felt. But it was also said here by Mr. and Mr. Members of the majority who cases like this should not happen again. We're not all so sure about that anymore, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members have already been heard by the majority, in the case of BPN, BPP, Banif, BCP, which should not happen again, but then what happens is that there are cases that multiply successively. I would also like to say that we are concerned about how the government is clearly seeking to clear up the supervisory responsibilities in the BES case. That is not the conclusion of the report of the Committee of Inquiry. That is not the conclusion at all! But the government now seeks to impose a closed responsibility on a banker, a banker, a group, forgetting that the Banco de Portugal acted late and very timidly. And this retraining of the Governor of Banco de Portugal is a good demonstration of this feeling that the Government is now seeking to transmit. Madam Minister, this is a step that we consider does not reinforce or credibility supervision and is already colliding with the first statement I mentioned here and said by the majority several times during the debate, that we should draw lessons from the BES case. We are also concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the culture in which we live in the field of high finance. It is indeed an extremely worrying issue. The way in which the Government has not clarified here and the debate has been refused after the debate to clarify the country on, for example, the amount of tax exemptions and losses to the New Bank is very revealing of support for the culture of high finance. The way in which it was legislated, in a very unclear way, to benefit, in order to assign more tax losses and exemptions to the New Bank is well revealing this culture of the domain of high finance. What we stand for is something extraordinarily different: it is a culture of economics that serves sustainability and, consequently, people. I also think that it is very revealing of this support to the culture of the domain of high finance certain financial and commercial businesses that, in the case of BES / GES, we realize that they were made in the light of the existing law, which allowed space for lack of transparency and for obscurity with faceless companies, that no one knows. It is all part of this system, of this model which we consider cannot be simply adjusted but, yes, profoundly altered. What the Greens would like to say today is that it is necessary to break a system, a model that only works to fatten the bank, even if it is to the detriment of the country. The Greens insist: revive this idea again that the tax benefits that our legal system prescribes for the financial system are a way to get rid of the country, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is immoral that the country is not even in a position to endure the loss of millions and millions of euros. One of the important steps that the House should take in the coming years was precisely to tackle tax benefits to the financial system which are deeply immoral to the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises of this country and to the citizens working in these countries. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and with regard to the Government's proposal on official auditors, we have not been able to understand why the increase in the requirement in a type of company has as a counterpart the reduction in the requirement in others. Why isn't there a great demand for everyone and maybe a little more for some? Why is it that in order to increase the requirement on a type of company, the requirement on all is reduced? If what we want is a culture of demand, then the requirement for all is increased, regardless of the differences between them. What we are asking, we do not understand and we criticize is the decline of the limit to a large number of companies. And it's not clear, nor has it been answered, what's going to get out of this regime and what's going to get in here. We cannot agree with this measure that deregulations and creates more space for all kinds of practices, because I think it is in the opposite direction that we have to walk. in the same way as the appointment, or retraining, of Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal is not separate from this debate, because it results from the conclusions we had in the Committee of Inquiry and was, in fact, part of the conclusions that allowed us to come to this debate today. Part of these conclusions have been cast into legislative proposals, another part are political consequences and must be present in the debate. That is why I asked the Minister whether the assessment which was supposed to be made to Banco de Portugal was already made and whether there were any conclusions from this assessment. What is the basis for the renewal of the Governor of Banco de Portugal if this assessment has not been made? If it has been done, where are the conclusions and when can we discuss them? It would have been very important if this debate had been held prior to the formalization of this retraining. Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos told us that he does not want to prevent the plane from flying, but that he wants to prevent it from falling. The problem, in this debate, is that there are planes that should not even lift flights, do not serve anything, spend fuel around the air until, one day, they fall and destroy everything. There are planes that shouldn't be flying. They don't have a purpose, they don't benefit the economy, they don't bring money to anyone except for who the pilots are, and then there's always something that comes up and, when the disaster happens, someone has to go there to save the plane that fell. I think the PS is waiting for that day to come, because it does not take the basic measures necessary to prevent this from happening. The Left Block does not propose the isolation of the country here. It is not worth shooting these ghosts, because no one proposes autacy, no one proposes Portugal's absence in the western world, as Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos said. We propose such a basic thing, that there should be no transactions with entities whose last beneficiary is unknown. I don't understand how scary the radicality of this proposal is. That is to say: there is no money coming out of Portugal, or even in Portugal, for a company that I do not know who the person is, what is the name of that person. In other words, there is no money in for a Savoices by Ricardo Salgado unless I know that Savoices belongs to Ricardo Salgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u207	Get in the other side!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u208	Is this how it is in the whole world? It's not! There are very important steps that are being taken unilaterally in this regard, particularly in France and we do not see France saying: "Only when others do. These are measures that can be taken unilaterally. Portugal may say: ‘ Transfers to companies with last beneficiary identified. Do not keep on seeking. ” And this has nothing to do with autacy or some measure that undermines the country's financial sustainability. I think it is productive that we leave out these threats of catastrophes which, after that, have little adherence to reality. Second question: PS touches on many important problems, but does not solve them. With regard to the sale of own products to the bank counter, the PS amends the laws of the sales incentives of the managers, says that managers cannot receive premiums for sale of their own products without eliminating the basic problem. The basic problem is that it is possible to sell own debt to the bank counters. Instead of removing the basic problem at its root, we are going around creating more rules, more supervision, more rules to be violated. The same applies to the requirement for the admission of independent administrators. We have many cases of independent administrators, non-executive administrators, and none of them prevented what happened. What is needed is to eliminate the conflict of interest in the root. Mr Pedro Nuno Santos and the PS believe that mixed conglomerates are essential for the development of economies - it is true, if they were at the public service, if there is public control over these companies and their connection to the financial system - but the PS does not propose public control and, therefore, what it is proposing, in fact, is the existence of large highly complex and impossible-to-control institutions. It is the worst of two worlds and it doesn't make sense, it has no coherence, from that point of view. On external auditors, the fact that Banco de Portugal is involved in its choice does not change the existing barriers. The external audit continues to be the foreclosure of the supervision of Banco de Portugal, but in doubt whether it is appointed by Banco de Portugal or by the private bank, which is the one who pays the auditor, the PS prefers it to be the private bank to pay the auditor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u209	I wanted to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u210	I will finish, Mr. President. in the same way, we do not understand how the right is, the CDS-PP and the PSD, after so many conclusions, regarding the rotativity and the independence of the auditors, does not also propose here that it is the Banco de Portugal or an independent entity to appoint auditors. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are disappointed at the end of this debate, in the sense that we have put forward very basic proposals to discipline the bank and this debate, along the way it is doing, has shown how the declarations of force will lose vitality and conviction as we come to vote on concrete proposals which call into question the power and how finance works. It's regrettable! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u211	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Finance Minister : We are debating this debate today, following the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to the Banco Espírito Santo and to the Espírito Santo Group, the Commission proposed by the CFP, which allowed us to know more in depth the constitution of the monopoly group, its practices and dossiers and the framework in which its collapse occurred. over time, the PCP has presented several proposals to respond to problems that have been identified. Today, in this debate, we have tried to answer two central questions: one, who responds to the damage of the BES and the Espírito Santo Group and another, what measures are necessary to prevent new bank collapses such as that of BPN or that of BES and how the financial system is put in service of the country. The answer to the question that pays the damages is clear for the CFP : it cannot be the Portuguese to pay the hole of the BES / GES, it must be the goods and assets of the BES, the Holy Spirit Group and the members of the Higher Council of the GES, i.e. the Holy Spirit family.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u214	For this reason, we proposed the immobilization of these assets and assets and the reversal of the sales which, however, were made of the tranquility, the Holy Spirit Health, the BES Investment and other assets of the Bank and the Espírito Santo Group. To the question of how these bank collapses are avoided and how the financial system is put at the service of the country, the CFP also responds with a proposal: the public control of the bank. To add measures which refuse public control of the bank and limit themselves to improving regulation is to feed the illusion that only regulation comes to solve the problems of the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u216	The retraining of a Governor of the Banco de Portugal, who did not stop the problems that were developing in the BES, is proof of the options of the PSD / CDS coalition and reveals that in the case of BES / GES, the Governor of Banco de Portugal served as a face and instrument of government action and that the PSD / CDS coalition continues to prefer to the bank the private ownership and management model « Ricardo Salgado / Oliveira e Costa ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u217	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u218	And the problem of the domain of the financial system by monopolistic groups, against national interests, is a problem that can only be considered properly within the framework of public control of the bank. It is not a problem of regulation or discipline of monopoly groups. It is not a problem to prevent only cross-qualified holdings, allowing investment funds or other banking entities to continue to participate in each other’s capital by keeping the wheel running. It is much less, as the PS says, a added value for the country to allow monopoly groups to continue to develop their activity, growing and extending their economic and even political domain. The problem with the monopolistic or conglomerated mixed groups, as they prefer, is a problem of political direction and democratic control of the economy, ensuring that economic options are at the service of the people and of the development of the country and not of the accumulation of profit and capital by the shareholders of economic and financial groups. The solution to the problems of monopolistic groups is to dissolve them in a process of public control of the bank. That alone guarantees a credit policy for the country and that is the proposal of the CFP and that is what we again bring to the discussion and vote of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u220	of the interventions we heard here today, we realize that PS and PSD and CDS coalition continue to defend the private ownership and management of the bank, which has given the results that are in sight. PS and PSD/CDS coalition insist on keeping the illusion of a regulation committed to governments and their political options. PS and PSD/CDS coalition insist on surrendering to offshores, instead of facing this problem, taking a sovereign decision, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, which applies, in the national territory, to the reasons established with entities based on offshores, to combat this biombo behind which the speculation and economic and financial crime is hidden. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] This is a decision that is within the reach of the Portuguese State and that it is possible to take on the proposal that the CFP brings to the discussion as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u222	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u223	I conclude, Mr. President. The PCP makes its options in defence of the interests of the country and the people by extinction and fighting offshores and by a bank under public control and at the service of the country. It is unfortunate that either the PS or the PSD/CDS coalition do not follow this perspective of defense of the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u224	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u225	Mr President, Minister for State and Finance, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, I welcome you, despite not having to do with the topic of this debate, for the news that we have just received from the National Institute of Statistics. Many congratulations to the Minister, the Government, Portugal and the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u226	The last two speeches, and also a few others, which we have heard in this debate, which is already a long one, are indeed proof that sometimes — perhaps too many times — the ideological prejudice undermines political lucidity. The CFP wants the fully nationalised bank, 100 % public, with a centralised State, directs that in everything commands and interferes. The CFP, however, is consistent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u227	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u228	It hates private initiative, abhors the very idea of banking and financial entities that are not in the hands of an omnipotent and omnipresent State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u229	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u230	And don't cover it up. The Left Block isn't like that. Block has days. It sometimes affixs posters and outdoors and makes speeches—and today Mrs Mariana Mortágua made one of these speeches—in which they swear that the bank is too important to be in the hands of private bankers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u231	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u232	in other days, possibly less congruent, the Block gives opinions about the private financial system, the ways of its regulation and suggests changes, within the logic of the private initiative and the financial market. The Block, in this debate once again, proved that it likes unreasonable and inconclusive mixtures. This, of course, gives him political mediatism, but removes any gap in coherence. For the ladies. Members of the Block and the PCP the private bank is the worst of all systems, excluding the others. But the truth is that the private bank is the assumption of economic freedom and the functioning of a healthy economy within the contemporary logic. You have also dusted this debate with the question of the appointment of Carlos Costa for a new mandate in front of Banco de Portugal. The PS wanted to withdraw, and well, from this matter, but it was also saying something about it. I must say, sirs. Members, that the PSD Parliamentary Group does not also run away from this lateral discussion, but it must be said that, at the end of the day, the PCP and the Block are against the appointment of Carlos Costa, not because it is who it is or because it has done what it has done or has ceased to do, are and will be against any appointment of a Governor of the Banco de Portugal who exists and remains in a logic of regulation independent of the government. Basically, they are against the Bank of Portugal itself as a supervisory entity of free and private banking system, because they defend, with more courage, others in a more camouflaged way, that supervision and regulation should not exist and that the whole banking system should be headed by a government department. The Socialist Party remains with us. The Socialist Party has brought the debate into two serious proposals, two proposals which, in our view, generally try to solve some of the problems of our financial and banking system. We do not agree with everything there is, we will take advantage of the debate that will be followed to present some amendments, but the PSD Parliamentary Group will make the two proposals of the Socialist Party possible. But the Socialist Party also has a definition problem. It is very difficult to perceive the current Socialist Party. There is only one theme that leaves no doubt to anyone, and these last days have been, in fact, elucidative in this regard: when it comes to places, when there are places at stake, the Socialist Party cannot disguise an irritation and anxiety. Sometimes this PS seems to feel that he owns the regime and that, when there is a nomination, whatever it is, only the PS has the natural right to choose those who suppose it is fit. Five years ago, the Socialist Party's government chose Carlos Costa, which at the time was independent. The Socialist Party's government has not heard anyone about this appointment five years ago, but today it demands the transparency of others that they haven't had five years ago. It's not curial! It's not curial, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] However, I would like to point out that the proposals which the Socialist Party brought here, in the sense that the PS Parliamentary Group had during the development of the Committee of Inquiry, are serious proposals, deserve some amendments but are proposed that the PSD Parliamentary Group will look at a constructive perspective and that it will make it possible for the new stage of the debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u233	Mr. João Galamba asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u234	It is to defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President. It is only to provide information to Mr. Deputy and Vice-President of the PSD bench, Carlos Abreu Amorim. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u235	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u236	Mr President, it is to inform Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim that the last three appointments of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal were all made in the first year of government mandate and were not contested by anyone, contrary to what is now happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u237	That's not time defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u238	Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u239	Mr President, it is to respond to this defense of honor, in which I was somehow struck and my name was invoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u240	A defense of honor without justification and a response without justification too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u241	Just to say, very briefly, to Mr Galamba, that his defence of honour has been totally displaced and useless. I didn't speak in years of term. What he said, and I maintain, is that the Socialist Party criticizes today the Government saying that he did not understand the Socialist Party about this appointment and, in the last three appointments, which were made by the Socialist Party, the PS did exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u242	No challenge from anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u243	It should not be demanded of others what they did not perform, when they had the power to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u244	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u245	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: I also did not want to miss the opportunity to refer to the data that the INE has just made known to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u246	Then INE data!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u247	In fact, it is another day when the reality of not giving reason to opposition is another day when there is good news for the Portuguese and there is bad news for the opposition, in particular for the Socialist Party. Mr Minister, when we have a debate on such matters, it means that we have some serenity. We are talking about proposals relating to the stability of the financial system and the banking system, in which the same stability is crucial to ensuring the functioning of an economy like ours. But I'd like to tell you. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party who are neither the title nor the fact that the capital is public or private that originates and which distinguishes the ethics criteria and the legality criteria with which those who act in one or another sector behave. That is not a decision criterion under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u249	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u250	It is inevitable that we speak of what was the collapse of the Holy Spirit Group and of the Holy Spirit Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u251	It's public!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u252	But it is important that we also have some rationality and some clarity here. On the effects that have occurred in the economy and on the damage that have been caused, taking into account the size of the Group and taking into account the economic importance that it had, if we had made a reasoning and if we asked the Portuguese, two years ago, what were the effects and what were the expected damage in the economy and in our financial and banking system, if we compared what could have happened, with what was the expectation for a group with that dimension and with that importance, and compared with what we have today, I think there is little doubt, with the data that are known today, that the resolution implemented by the Bank of Portugal was the best solution to protect contamination to other institutions, was the solution that best protected the interests of taxpayers, it was the solution that best protected and defended depositors. Deep down, it was a more sensible solution. In the face of a problem that was complex, which, by its own dimension, was also unpublished and which obviously implied the resolution that was taken, it had consequences, from my point of view, much smaller and much less significant than some that are often irresponsiblely defended on the left. We must have this debate on the consequences of the alternatives. Did the Group’s insolvency increase the credit available to businesses in the economy? Would the nationalisation of the bank better protect and defend the interests of taxpayers? Is there a better solution to remove the contagio from the rest of the banking system? Is there an alternative solution that would be better from the point of view of all the interests that must be weighed down and curable here? We have doubts, given the information we have today, that these alternatives are better than the solution adopted. Therefore, given the need to obviously mitigate the problems and damage that have been caused to the economy, it is important that we have the interests that prevail and that are more relevant at such a difficult time as it has happened. It is true that there have been oversight failures. It is true that there have been joint failures. But in view of what was the comparison with other decisions that were made in the past, there were correct ones and I believe that we were right in what was essential. Mrs. Minister, in solutions as complicated as those that had to be found,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u253	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u254	I will finish, Mr. President. ... in a chain of command that has to function perfectly, from the point of view of the responsibilities and role of consumers, from the point of view of the responsibilities and role of the banks themselves, from the point of view of the responsibilities and the role of the supervisors themselves and regulators themselves, each has to fulfil, strictly and scrupulously, their role and their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u255	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u256	We mix the role and responsibility of each one only causes these responsibilities to be diluted, and dilute the responsibilities can mean to whiten reality and may mean not to hold those, indeed, responsible. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u257	I now have the appointment of the Minister of State and Finance for an intervention. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u258	Mr President, as soon as I have the opportunity to say very briefly: Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the issue of the amendments proposed to the Code of Commercial Societies, the aim of the legislation is always to find an adequate balance between what must be the requirements and what may be excessive demands and bureaucracy that affect the life of companies. Madam Member, what we are concerned about in this debate, in which we are talking about entities of a specific nature, which have a systemic nature, is when the consequences of their action can even go far beyond the company itself. The type of societies that concern us, in these and many other debates, are anonymous societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u259	Anonymous societies are always controlled, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u260	This proposal seems to us to be a good balance not to overburden, with demands, the generality of companies, particularly quota companies, which, of course, from a larger dimension also have the same requirements, but in most companies it will not be justified — increasing significantly by lowering the thresholds from 100 million to 20 million, in the case of the balance sheet, from 150 million to 40 million, in the case of turnover, because they are indeed those entities which have the greatest complexity and which we need most to worry about. With regard to the proposals made by the honourable Members. Members of the CFP, we understand that Mr. Members do not agree with the euro, with Europe, with the freedom to move capital, with the private initiative, even with private property itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u261	I'm exaggerating!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u262	We can see the context in which the proposals are presented, but, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree and, moreover, most Portuguese do not agree either. Mrs Vera Rodrigues referred to supervisory failures. It is true, Mrs. Member, I myself said that there have been failures along this process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u263	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u264	... there were oversight failures, there were audit failures, there were many management and governance failures, but recognizing that there were failures does not mean that the evaluation is done only from the failures. The evaluation has to be done from the set of actions and how the results of these failures were internalized and how the procedures were corrected. What we see in Banco de Portugal is a remarkable progress towards past practices, which, in the face of a far greater problem than we have ever faced, have been able to act decisively, with courage, particularly Mr Governor, and find a solution for which we have not yet seen a better answer. Therefore, the recognized failures must not prevent us from making...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u265	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President, only one minute to finish. Recognition of failures should not also prevent us from recognizing what has been done and a comprehensive assessment, and that is what the government does. It will also be up to Parliament to carry out this assessment of the mandate of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-29.u267	The debate on the first item on our agenda is concluded. I thank the Government for its presence. I will now announce the second and third items of the agenda, without time for debate, which consist, respectively, of draft resolution No 1484/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guiding principles for the revision of the European Neighbourhood Policy ( Committee on European Affairs) and the motion for a resolution No 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to Review the Framework Agreement on Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, signed in Macao on 17 May 2014. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 3 June, for 15 hours, consisting of the agenda, by marking of the Greens, in the discussion of draft resolution No 1506 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Combating food waste to promote efficient food management ( The Greens ). Eventually, there will be a vote at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 52 minutes.]]
