ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we get on the agenda, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the right thing to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the following diplomas: Bill No. 328 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as a flag State or port, with a view to the fulfilment of mandatory provisions of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, of the International Labour Organisation, and transposes Directives 1999 / 63 / EC, of the Council of 21 June 1999, 2009 / 13 / EC, of 16 February 2009, 2012 / 35 / EU, of Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012, and 2013 / 54 / EU, of Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013, which runs from 10. the Commission ; Bill No 899 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the citizenship card and governing its issue and use ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; draft resolution 1463 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recognition of patients with fibromyalgia ( PSD and CDS-PP ), lower than 9. the Commission ; and Parliamentary assessments Nos 137 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 69 / 2015 of 6 May, which approves the process of reprivatization of CP Cargo - Logistics and Rail Transport of Goods, SA ( PCP ), and 138 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 70 / 2015 of 6 May, which approves the process of reprivatisation of EMEF - Company for the Maintenance of Railway Equipment, SA ( PCP ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u3	Mrs. Members, let us begin the agenda, whose only point, as you know, is the general assessment of Bill No. 898 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Cooperative Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the bill, Mr. José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent development of the social economy sector in Portugal is remarkable. We must all emphasize the public and institutional recognition, the increasing weight in the economy in general and in employment, the evolution in the intervention paradigms and the concomitant improvement of the public perception that exists in this sector. The last few years in Portugal are marked by a formal and institutional recognition of the importance of the institutions of the social economy and the activities they undertake. in this parliamentary headquarters, it was unanimously approved the Law of Basics of Social Economy. All political parties recognized the importance of this sector. Its formal and economic development has accompanied a strong transformation, a change in the dominant paradigm of social intervention, which it is important to underline. It is more, it is different, it is more trained and it is more sustainable. in the first line, as an advanced guard, there are and will be the institutions of the social economy in this and in this country, in particular, and in a very marked way, in times of crisis that we have recently lived in a very successful way. We are all grateful to these partners, to all those who are part of the social economy sector. We understand that they are part of a public benefit intervention. They are not exactly the social state, but they are increasingly part of a public intervention of benefit to citizens. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We collect some data indicating and highlighting the importance of social institutions. 2010 figures show that the social economy accounts for 10 % of organisations and 6 % of total employment in Europe. In Portugal, in the same year, it represented 5 % of employment and comprised 55 383 units. The trend in this data in our country, particularly in the proportionality of employment, is growth, with the characteristic, known, that social institutions tend to employ less able to find employment in another sector. The cooperative subsector is the second most representative in employment and gross value added in the general framework of the social economy in Portugal. He employs a lot of people and creates wealth. We don't look anymore, they don't look at the Portuguese for cooperatives anymore just like a little thing. They have dimensions, they are relevant and important to the economic life and social life of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u6	in the European framework, the institutions of the social economy are also relevant, particularly on the European internal market. Social entrepreneurship is highlighted as one of the levers of the European economy, which lies within it, and above all in the provision of services. in this regard, social institutions represent a very important part of European social innovation. Former European Commissioner Michel Barnier said it was necessary to redirect Europe to a social market economy, with man, with the person at the heart of the European project. In 2012 Jacques Delors said that social economy and market logic should learn to cohabit. In the same year, he pointed out the following about the institutions of the social economy : « These are structures that enable us to verify that neither the market economy nor the public economy are sufficient to provide economically viable and comprehensive responses. They must therefore occupy a place in our society, a society which seeks to respect a way of development more concerned with the person". We certainly wish everyone a society more concerned with its development centered on the person. I'm sure we all share this idea. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: It is in a national framework of growth, which is intended to intensify, of recognition, that it is important to materialize more, in a European framework, to emphasize its importance, that PSD and CDS-PP present this draft law on the cooperative subsector, considered as such within the broader sector of the social economy in which it is inserted. This bill seeks a more current cooperative code and soon more appropriate to today's socio-economic reality and, although it is presented by the parties supporting the government coalition, it is, to a large extent, a previous work that it is important to highlight, done by the National Council for Social Economy (CNES ) In fact, the CNES set up the Working Group on the Review of the Social Economy and, in this context, it also established the Co-operational Editorial Committee on the Review of the Cooperative Legislation, which incorporated, inter alia, elements of the CASES, representatives of the cooperative sector, in particular CONFECOOP ( Portuguese Cooperative Confederation ) and CONFAGRI ( National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives and the Portugal Agricultural Credit ) and also of ANIMAR ( Portuguese Association for Local Development ), institutions which, as is evident, we welcome. The consensualization effort was attempted and in many areas there was convergence. This effort will continue, also with the partners of the cooperative sub-sector and with the other parliamentary groups. There will certainly be openness to integrate suggestions and try to reach a final version worthy of as broad a support as possible. This new cooperative code changes the current one, which has been in force for about 20 years, and has as essential motivation principles, firstly, the recognition of the cooperative subsector, of its importance within the framework of the social economy, as we have already underlined, and secondly, to help encourage its growth in a framework of greater modernity and broad freedom, and as operational motivations, firstly, the modernisation of the subsector, lato felt, secondly, the training and a set of incentives for the self-capacity of the cooperative subsector and, thirdly, the governance and management of the cooperative institutions. We understand, and therefore we propose, that this new code meets these requirements and with this will be an incentive for an increasingly strong cooperative subsector. As strong as it is in the countries of Central Europe, for example, even more ambitious, because cooperatives—it is underlined—are much more than we can call 'portugality'. Let us see in the agri-food sector, for example, the quantity of cooperative products that represent Portugal, the recognized quality of products such as wine, olive oil, among many others, which make Portugal recognized and spoken out there. The cooperatives are also a lot of portugality because they are here. For example, attention is paid to social intervention, to the responses that are proposed to vulnerable populations, to the exemplary work they do with Portuguese and Portuguese with disabilities. The cooperatives are and can be even more of the Lusophonia, because, half inside and half out there, together with other social institutions, have a relevant role in cooperation with countries of Lusophonia, helping and supporting the work and cooperative production in these countries, thus narrowing our ties, the ties of Portugal, with the lusophone world. We are therefore grateful to the Portuguese cooperatives for all this work, for the country's contribution of affirmation and for the invaluable contribution they have made to internal cohesion. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members : I conclude by saying that, in this presentation intervention, we are guided not only by the framework, which we have made, the set of general purposes, which we have also moved forward, but above all by the desire of the PSD Parliamentary Group and certainly also by the CDS Parliamentary Group to call for constructive work of improvement which, I am sure, will take place in the discussion on the speciality of this bill. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u7	Mr José Manuel Canavarro, Mr Canavarro, asked questions. Deputies Raúl de Almeida, Bruno Dias, José Luís Ferreira and Mariana Mortágua. In the meantime, Mr José Manuel Canavarro informed the Bureau that he would answer two questions. First of all, Mr Raúl de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u8	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, first of all, let me congratulate you on the magnificent work that both the PSD and the CDS have done to transform the draft law that the Government has sent to the Assembly of the Republic into a legislative initiative. In fact, my question will focus on this very process. I imagine that the honourable Member agrees with me and considers the way in which the government has acted to implement the features of this preliminary draft. As all of us in this House know, or we have an obligation to know, the Social Economy Basics Act, recently approved in this House, came in its article 13. the, determine the review of the legal framework of entities in the social economy sector in the light of the guiding principles set out in Article 5. o. It was therefore in this sense that the Government, in deep cooperation with the social partners, took the initiative to review the legal framework of the three entities of the social and solidarity sector, the Cooperative Code, the Mutual Code and the Statutes of the IPSS. in this context, the Working Group for the Review of Social Economics was established within the framework of the National Council for Social Economy, and within its framework the Commission for the Drafting of the Review of Cooperative Legislation. This Commission was composed of elements from the entire cooperative sector, from which we highlight the representatives of CONFECOOP, CONFAGRI, ANIMAR and CNES. In addition to these elements, they also interfered with two academic personalities and two CASES technicians. As we have seen, the Government has sought that all the sensibilities of the cooperative area should have been seated in this Working Group and that their views should be relevant and taken into account. As a result of this vast curriculum of the Working Group, the purpose could only be a quality project, which resulted from the effort of all parties involved. But, honourable Member, after the government has this preliminary draft in its possession, what have you done? Has the government itself created legislation? We don't think so. Have you sent it in a way hidden from the parliamentary groups of the majority that support the government, in a privileged way, to present a bill without the other parliamentary groups of this House having knowledge of it? I don't think so. Well, in a sign of great and exemplary democracy and greater consideration by all the Members of this House, he sent it, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, to the Assembly of the Republic, so that any parliamentary group, wishing, could take the initiative to present a bill based on the work done by a cross-sectional group to the entire cooperative sector. Mr President, I ask you, in this respect: do you not understand that this code, which dares to be regarded as a code of excellence, and that we are now discussing, firstly, the exemplary and cross-sectional work of the entire cooperative sector which the working group set up by the Government has developed? Finally, I would like to ask: does the honourable Member not agree that the Government's act of sending the preliminary draft to all parliamentary groups constitutes a remarkable mark of democracy and high respect for all Members of this House, without exception? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u9	To put questions, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u10	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, recently there have been many — and sometimes even too — calls for consensus, seeking to impose certain political options which cannot be agreed. Nevertheless, in our country, there are still matters that deserve consensus. In fact, they have been worthy of consensus for almost 20 years and must continue to be. The consensus cannot be made by decree and it cannot be made one day for the other. It involves joint work, it involves convergence, it involves respect and up to time for the deepening of the discussion and for the opportunity for the joint work to develop. We noted that on 15 February the Assembly of the Republic received a letter from Minister Mota Soares requesting the distribution by parliamentary groups of the dossier relating to this matter, at the request of the National Council for the Social Economy of September 2014 and we know that the structures of the cooperative movement had intended to contribute to bring the review process closer, essentially, to what was achieved in 1996, in which the current Cooperative Code was unanimously approved. The question that arises, Mr President, has to do with the circumstances, I would say, more precarious that this work of convergence is now before us. When we consider that one project has been put to discussion one week for the other, with changes in the text, which we are now identifying — are amendments relating to the delivery of the new text, which were made yesterday, except error, and appears in the database one last delivery, some details — and knowing that the Social Security and Labour Committee is confronted with several simultaneous legislative processes, which will certainly not be dispatched this week for the next time, the question is as follows: what is the perspective and what means is it that you think that this debate can be held? We are not faced with an issue which is, in itself, worthy of attention and deepening, in which the pressure is not good advisor, Mr President. We are not faced with a situation in which the more in-depth debate, in which the more involved debate, in which the openness to this reflection should be made not on the eve of the end of the term of office, but on the occasion of another openness and other perenniality? So, Mr President, the question I put to you is the following: what availability is that the majority — since the draft law was submitted by the PSD and the CDS — so that this proposal is not voted on, nor now considered, to have to close, quickly and forcefully, a process which would thus hardly achieve the unanimity it achieved in 1996? The question that has been raised and on which you mentioned it is that, in many areas, there has been convergence in the joint work, but you know that the issues in which it was not possible to achieve convergence were precisely those which, in many cases, corresponded to the basic options rather than to mere questions of detail. Therefore, we do not have an easy and quick discussion ahead in matters that are decisive for the future of cooperativeism. That is why I would ask the honourable Member if we were not faced with a circumstance in which the Portuguese debate and the Portuguese cooperative movement would win with a broad, participated and in-depth discussion from the Assembly of the Republic, under circumstances other than those which we now have the end of mandate in view and very little time for this speciality work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u11	There's a time discount in global time, but I was asking you. Ladies and gentlemen who kept the questions within regiment time, so that we can better distribute the debate. To reply, Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u12	Madam President, I would almost like to respond to the two requests for clarification with one answer, but I will customize it. Firstly, Mr Bruno Dias — whom I thank for the question he has put to me and, very strongly, the serene way he has done so — I think it is important, and we still have time, to have a discussion. Perhaps, not with the ideal time, but I believe that there is an excellent basis for work. And this work base, which has been done outside the Assembly of the Republic, can help us, as long as we have, to achieve a code as consensual as possible. We thus demonstrate our openness and our complete availability. On the other hand, our intention, I believe that shared by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, is to call for the discharge, without a vote, of this initiative, so that the discussion can be free. We are faced with a work base which has been developed by the sector and, as Mr Raúl de Almeida said recently, it has also been prepared by other personalities equally linked to this sector, and I believe that this is a help. Therefore, with this help and with the time we have available, I think it is possible to create a consensus code and better than that approved in 1996. Mr Raúl de Almeida, I am also very grateful for your words and, to a large extent, your second words. In view of what you have referred to and how this process actually proceeded, I believe that it creates an obligation for us to continue to run in the same way. It therefore binds us to an obligation to try consensus, as far as possible, and to create a code that is better than that which is in force. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Left Block has refrained from asking questions, preferring to step forward in this debate. You have the floor, therefore, to ask questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u14	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, we have no doubt about the importance of the cooperative and social sector in our day, but we also have no doubt about the need of the Government to respect the Constitution, which expressly establishes the State's obligation to promote and promote cooperatives, which, as we know, neither this government nor the previous ones, have done so, either with regard to promotion or with regard to cooperative promotion. In fact, we can even say « well on the contrary». The PSD and the CDS present to us a proposal on the revision of the Co-operative Code, but, honourable Member, this proposal ends up resuscitation of the proposals submitted by the PSD 20 years ago and which have been rejected on constitutional grounds. Therefore, a substantial part of the proposals presented by the PSD today was rejected by violating the Constitution, the country's fundamental law, and as such it seems to us that there is an effort to insist, in order to throw the mud to the wall to see it glued. Again, it is intended to weaken the principle of democratic management of cooperatives and consolidate the existence of investor members. That is exactly what my question is about. Mr President, how can it be possible to ensure compliance with the principle of democratic management by members, in particular the principle that members have the same voting rights, i.e. one member, one vote, as set out in the initiative in Article 3. the, with the consecration of the plural vote provided for in Article 41. o? If the PSD and the CDS, in fact, wish to affirm the principle of democratic management of cooperatives, even if they want to ensure that members have the same voting rights, if they really want to ensure the principle of one member, one vote, the question must be asked : what does Article 41. on your initiative? Mr José Manuel Canavarro, we cannot want something and at the same time do not want it. It doesn't make sense! That is why I would like you to explain to us how this compatibility of Article 41 is done. the principle enshrined in Article 3. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u15	To reply, Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u16	Madam President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I am grateful for the question you put to me. I would like to tell you, firstly, that I disagree with what you have said about this government that you have not supported and strengthened partnerships with the cooperative sector. I can't subscribe to what you said. I think exactly the opposite. There has been great recognition by the Government and by the majority parties of the social economy sector as a whole and by the cooperative subsector, understood as part of the social economy sector. So I can't subscribe to your words, I really have to disagree face-to-face with them. Don't hurt me. I now answer the question that you have raised and the introduction to that question, whether there is any attempt to revive anything that has not happened 20 years ago, I must tell you that this text, as a presentation text, has a relevant aspect: it does not determine, gives the institutions freedom, within the framework of their statutes, to be able to foresee a set of situations. Therefore, it does not oblige, it does not determine, not force.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u17	Exactly! Don't push!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u18	But even these matters can be discussed. I would like to see you and the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing that forces this to happen. It is within the framework of the statutes of each cooperative that you can think of what you have just mentioned. That is, the possibility is opened, it is not determined that it is so. It's just a possibility. However, as I said in the presentation speech and in response to the previous questions addressed to me, we are at a stage when we can discuss all the issues and we can certainly also discuss these issues. If we reach a convergence point or not, we will see-CL at the end of the discussion. Anyway, his divergence was noted. however, also be aware that this is a code of freedom. That is, it does not impose on cooperatives that do form A or form B. Even with regard to the matter which you referred to in the plural vote or in the investor members, there is no obligation, yes, the possibility that cooperatives may or may not go that way. So it's a code of freedom and I'd like it to be underlined. As far as consensus and discussion matters are concerned, they will certainly remain for the speciality, with the contribution of all. I once again point out my disagreement with your initial words, but I thank the question you put to me, which is enlightening and important for the debate we are making. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the process of intervention. Mr Nuno Sá spoke for an intervention by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to be able to welcome the government's bench, but, incomprehensiblely, it is not present in this debate, so at least I express our perplexity with this situation. I think — and I cannot but say that the discussion on the cooperative sector, as well as the importance of this diploma, deserved the presence of the government, which, in fact, referred to this House a preliminary draft law. I therefore find it incomprehensible and not very sympathetic, not wanting to be blunt in the words, the absence of the government in this debate. on the part of the PS, I address a very special word of recognition for the unique and structural role, for our society, of the cooperative sector. The cooperative movement assumes a social and economic importance of the greatest relevance, well expressed in the number of cooperatives and their workers, in the contribution to national production in areas as vital as agriculture, services and social solidarity, housing, consumption, credit, education and culture. On behalf of the Socialist Party, I would also like to express appreciation for the work done by the National Council for Social Economy in preparing the draft reform of the Cooperative Code. All the testimonies that have come to us allow us to say that it was a real work of consultation, with the committed participation of the relevant partners of the cooperative sector, of personalities, of experts, in seeking the maximum consensus for a legal reform that is a stimulus to the relaunch of cooperativeism in our country. It was a good work that allowed a wide margin of consultation, consensus and social peace. The political leaders should now continue this work and reach a consensus, as has always happened in this area, which we hope will not be impossible. In addition, we see with good eye the manifest openness of the PSD and the CDS to, for the benefit of the cooperative sector and of our collective development, we will be able to carry out this effort of consensus on this matter. Thus, our position is to open up for change and, I cannot leave it here to say it with firm voice and conviction, at the same time as firmness in defending cooperative principles. We have a progressive and modern vision for cooperativeism. The dynamics of progressive change are for better solutions, more consistent with reality, but always in ensuring that there is no decharacterizing and fragile banalization of cooperatives for ambiguous existences that can ultimately be the end of the cooperatives themselves. Social economy and, in particular, cooperativeism is one of the founding roots of democratic socialism. Socialists communicate about the history, principles and the non-violence of the cooperative movement and our joint work has been, is and will always be a proven reality. No policy in favor of its defence and modernization can be defined on the margin and without the support of the Socialist Party, because it is also one of the fundamental foundations of the country's economic and social development, fulfilling the forecast of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Social Economy Basics Act, adopted in 2013, unanimously, in this House, in a work that I personally know very well. in this perspective, we are very surprised that the bill presented by the parties of the current majority, soon in its preamble, refers to a sector that, from the legal-constitutional and legal point of view does not exist. The so-called « social and solidarity sector » does not exist, and the correct designation « cooperative and social sector » does not exist, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, or « social economy sector », in accordance with the Basics for the Social Economy Act. Therefore, we want to understand what this new concept of a cooperative and solidarity sector is. Also in the preamble, references to the only, but significant, amendments are omitted strangely — and Mr José Manuel Canavarro referred to them as mild, if he mentioned — introduced by the Government, the PSD and the CDS-PP to the proposed revision document of the Cooperative Code, produced in the National Council of Social Economy, and I refer to the admissibility of investors and plural vote. The government, the PSD and the CDS, let me tell you, in the first reading of the document, that is, of the bill, made copy paste and still a bad copy paste, with many scratches, lapses and even systematic incongruities, and they only added to what came from the CNES the plural vote and the investors members. That is, in what the Government, PSD and CDS contributed to the approved document, by consensus, in CNES was to introduce only dissident and poorly configured matters. The government, the PSD and the CDS did not start well. The intervention of the parliamentary groups can allow and warm us up the hope that mistakes can be made, in our view, serious by the sudden and unexpected way in which they seemed to want to break a logic of social consensus — the way in which the initiative enters it seems that if you want to open it is not! a political rupture — and they face these two measures which I have just referred to the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance and can open a front of unconstitutionalities. Only the correction of these errors at work in the specialty can serve a legal and appropriate cooperative code for new challenges. We defend the reform of the ordinary legislation of the social economy sector, in the framework of the Basics of Social Economy Act, creating the conditions for the development and modernization of the entities that integrate it and for the expansion of its activities, in particular by eliminating legal, regulatory and bureaucratic barriers. It is important to equalize and advance in strengthening the role of cooperatives in financial and insurance areas, in which they are already present through the Agricultural Credit and the Fishery Mútua, but also in industrial production, in trade and services, in energy and in other areas of socially strategic activity, promoting the growth of their contribution to the creation of wealth and the creation of jobs at national level. There are many opportunities here in the cooperative field that can demand a regulatory reform of CASES and the strengthening of its competences in the social economy sector, as well as the extension of CNES, reinforcing its representativeness adjusted to the perimeter of the social economy in accordance with the Basics Act. In this debate, we affirm the purpose of the PS to present to the Portuguese new ways of exploiting the great potential of the cooperative sector and for this it is imperative, from the outset, in the context of administrative modernization, to speed up, without facilitating, the process of creation of cooperatives, a cooperative in particular through the initiative of young people, with the support of structural funds, at the same time rejuvenating the cooperative sector and combating young unemployment, for which a rapid start of the COOPJOVEM programme is required so that it is no longer a fiasco or a piece of political propaganda such as Impulso Jovem or Garantia Jovem, in Portugal. The PS does not run away from difficulties; before, it faces them to improve and solve them. in this draft law, the subjects of the investors members and plural vote, because they can affect cooperative identity, social consensus and legality, are central aspects in the debate to be held in the field of specialty, for which should be called to witness the partners and experts in the field of cooperative law. We are open and available for this debate. The PS knows, through the history and experience of the present, that the practices of the social economy and cooperativeism entities, with their virtues and defects, contain principles and values that will, in the future, be increasingly important in the process of change that is underway in all societies. Cooperation and solidarity are two basic principles for the creation of a more just, freer and more humane society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u21	Mr President, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, by the CDS-PP, and Mr Adam Silva, by the PSD, wrote questions. Once you want to answer together, you have the floor to Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u22	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, Portugal was one of the first countries in European terms to approve, and unanimously, the Basics of Social Economy Act, which puts our country at the forefront of this issue and, no less important, puts us before the European Union itself, which is still developing the debate. This Basic Law has set up a sector which, despite being enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, has very little legislation and has allowed it to be regulated diplomas necessary for the existence of the third sector, as is the case with the cooperative code, which is the centre of our debate. in the social economy, we include, in addition to cooperatives, mutualities, institutions of social solidarity, mercy, local and regional development associations and foundations, social enterprises and non-profit voluntary entities that produce non-market services to support families and the community. This government has therefore committed itself from the outset not only to recognize the importance of the social economy, but also to define it as one of its main bets.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u24	This is why the cooperation protocol has been strengthened that has deepened the new paradigm of social responses that has been achieved and that will, for the first time, integrate health, education and the logic of training and employment. It created the local social intervention network, which will serve as an organisational model for a joint, integrated and proximity intervention that contributes to strengthening the social action response; it ensured the exemption of the social institutions within IRC; it recovered the return of 50 % of the VAT applied on investments and works to which the previous government had put an end; it maintained the IMI exemption for real estate; it executed the Solidary Sector Restructuring Fund, a fund to which it allocated about EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u26	Having said this, Mr President, do you agree that this new diploma comes following the adoption of the Social Economy Basics Act and that it reveals the commitment of this government, more than any other, to encourage and expedite the activity of these institutions? Do you not understand that this code is also an important tool for implementing an effective policy in this sector, which has been one of the most successful areas? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u27	To put questions, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u28	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, today we have started a very relevant process that has to do with updating and modernising the law which is part of the cooperative sector in Portugal. We all have a vision of great praise for the work that has been done by this sector. There is no doubt that in the time when the crisis particularly struck in Portugal, this sector has sustained many jobs, has succeeded in dynamising the economy and has managed to radiate much of the hope that a people must maintain, especially in times of crisis. We therefore have an obligation, to make a well-made law, a law that, if possible—and we will all fight for it—to have a consensuality mark, because we will do this in a logic of gratitude to all cooperativeism agents who in Portugal have been extraordinary in this matter, but also to provide the instruments so that the future is not a complication, but something that is a healthy challenge, capable of being overcome. That is why this instrument, which we want to be modern, dynamic, able to be synchronized with the new demands of society and the economy, is the maximum design we pursue. I would like to assure the honourable Member that we are not in this process with any kind of prejudice, we are open-minded, very readily, like, indeed, here has been mentioned and we have already given some proof of this. We want this bill to go down to the committee without a vote, because we want the debate to be done in a balanced way, so that we can all hear in a calm manner, listening, in particular, to those most responsible and those on the ground in this matter. That is why, Mr President, I would like you to tell me, firstly, what exactly is the Socialist Party's availability in this process — I think you have understood what you are saying, but I would like you to reaffirm it — and secondly, what are the beacons, if you can already tell me - for this matter in the debate in the speciality to lead to such consensualization, which is what we want and what we think the cooperative sector deserves, in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u29	To reply, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u30	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Inês Teotónio Pereira and Mr Adam Silva for the questions they asked me. Let me answer together because the issues are very similar and the underlying concerns too, so I would like to say the following: the demographics of cooperatives are concerned because in recent years they have been created less cooperative and have been more cooperative extinct. Therefore, a new energy is needed for the sector and certainly this is not the work of chance, and I mean years of PSD / CDS governance. We want the principles of cooperativeism to be respected, which are very well defined by the Association of International Cooperativeism, and we do not accept that they are confused or transformed cooperatives or the cooperative movement into capitalist or charitable movements. For us, it is very clear: one thing is cooperative principles, another is the principles and values of capitalism and capital, another is the sector of solidarity and social values. This should not be confused here or, at least, mixed up, which should be a cause for concern. Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, this project has potential and can become a good solution, even necessary, for the cooperative sector. Much depends on the Members of this House and on the will of the current majority. This is because the project that was presented and the work done at the National Council for Social Economy (NCES) is a good document and an excellent work base. The amendments that the Government has made to this project and that the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups apparently in the first phase have sidelined, but now they are available to correct, if any, will be decisive. It is that this bill, with the two amendments in question, has seen its configuration changed. In fact, I am replying to Mr Adam Silva, who said that, in addition to some shortcomings and inconsistencies, there are two fundamental issues relating here to the investor members and to the plural vote, which were grafted by the government, the PSD and the CDS in the document presented by CNES, because of it they did not appear. And we, in a very clear way, Mr Adam Silva, do not accept the exact configuration that makes regulations concerning plural voting and investor members. We do not accept it in the way it is and, if it is so, I also tell you that, in the end, we will vote against it...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u31	And they're squeezing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u32	... because this total autonomy cannot be given to the statutes. Therefore, we have a lot of thought on this matter, in fact, allow me, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to have a lot of heritage and work, in conjunction with the cooperative sector, and let us make it available to Parliament, the cooperative sector and the Portuguese, to effectively improve this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cooperative sector is a very important sector in Portuguese society, it was - it was in the past and it will - it will be - it will be more and more. It is a sector that shows how it is possible for people to organize themselves and perform useful functions for society, rejecting the primacy of profit and the organization around profit. And therefore cooperatives are important, because they create jobs, because they are a source of economic activity, but because they prove that there are other reasons for people to join together, other reasons for people to organize themselves, other reasons for people to produce, that they are not seeking financial profit. They also show, as it was said by the PSD member himself, that it is possible to generate wealth for society and the economy without that wealth being appropriated by the owners, shareholders or a few who are owners of a company. It is precisely because we respect the cooperative sector and its constitutional heritage—that is what brings us the constitutional heritage, the three sectors, one of which the cooperative—and because we understand that this sector is central to the future of the Portuguese economy and society that opposes the two ideas underlying these amendments, which were introduced by the PSD, to the proposal of this cooperative code. The first is a view of the cooperative sector as institutions of solidarity that are replaced by the social state. It is not our view of the cooperative sector, they are not substitutes for the social state, they are not charitable institutions, they are cooperative, collective institutions, with logics of internal solidarity, but they do not serve to go where the social state does not go, because of the cuts in social security or because of the cuts in the public sector and support for families and the most deprived. Secondly, we are against the introduction of market logics in the form of cooperatives' organisation. And the introduction of these market logics shows some discomfort that the PSD and CDS have with everything that is not directly linked to the logics of profit and capitalist logics of society organization. In fact, we have seen an attempt here to bring to market logic other forms of organization that persisted and remained in the cooperative sector. And why do we say this and where do we point these failures and this attempt? It is very clear in the form of the plural vote, which has already been mentioned here, which in fact contradicts the idea of horizontality, which is the central idea of cooperativeism, a person, a vote. This is the most basic idea of horizontality, of democracy within an institution and also of solidarity, and the plural vote ends with this idea, by criteria of antiquity or number of co-operatives, but also because, by combining plural voting with the idea of the investor member, it gives the notion that those who appear with money have more right to vote, has more right to interfere with the future of the cooperative and the organization, only because they have more money and more capital. This is not the logic of a cooperative, this is the logic of a commercial society and therefore distorts the logic of a cooperative, which is supposed to be very different from the commercial society. And those who say this are the cooperative organisations themselves, who also tell us that they pervert the spirit of equality and the spirit of an organization that works around people and not around capital. The gentlemen. Members will tell us that it is necessary to innovate, to respond to the problems of financing cooperatives, to give future conditions to cooperatives. All right, no one is against this, we are going to work on this, but it is CONFECOOP itself that says that the law, as it exists, already allows capital increases by its members. Other policies to promote cooperative activity, including facilitating the creation of cooperatives, lack other mechanisms to facilitate credit for cooperative activity, lack other tax mechanisms, particularly since the end of the cooperative tax statute in 2012 which has moved to the Tax Benefit Statute, with many complaints from the sector regarding this matter, many other measures are missing which, rather, support cooperative activity and are not necessarily resolved with these amendments to the law. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: what is the point of these amendments? They serve to encourage the cooperative sector or serve to change its dynamics and its basic logic, which is what we want to defend? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u35	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several speeches have already been made here, questions have already been asked, and I think that has passed this idea that no one, regardless of viewpoints more or less disagrees with the intrinsic content of this initiative, which is the idea of what is and must be the social economy. The social economy is based on the principles of cooperation, solidarity and collective benefit as a final result of the activity of the entities that are part of it. The cooperative sector is a sector that, historically, fully integrates itself into this sector of the social economy—in fact, it is one of the oldest, the cooperative sector is a pioneer in the social economy, back to many centuries. Therefore, with this initiative, we are honoring the cooperative sector, respecting it and trying to give it the weapons and mechanisms to monitor the changes that society has suffered, the transformations of society, both at the economic level and at the level of its own structure. But if we are talking about the social sector, the social economy and the cooperative sector, we also need to know what we are talking about and so I will remind you of some numbers. worldwide, more than 1000 million people are cooperatives, participate in this sector, which means that one in seven people is a member of any form of cooperative. The life of more than 3000 million people in the world is dependent, directly or indirectly, with greater or lesser proximity, on cooperative activity. The cooperative activity is directly responsible for over 100 million jobs. For example, in Singapore, half of the population belongs, is linked or affects the cooperative movement. in the United States of America, one in four people joined cooperativeism and in Canada there are four in ten people. in Europe, according to the latest figures of Cooperatives Europe, which is a structure of the International Cooperative Alliance for Europe, 250 000 companies make up this sector with 163 million members. In Spain, in 2007 it was estimated that cooperative employment represented 21, 6 % of total employment, and in Italy, in 2005 1 million people were employed by the existing 70 400 cooperatives. In Portugal, one in six persons is estimated to be a member of a cooperative and cooperative employment is estimated to represent 1,3% of the total. At the end of 2010 2260 cooperatives were active with a turnover of around 3% of national production. It was in view of this dimension of the cooperative sector, this dimension of the social economy sector, in which the cooperative sector is integrated, that this government and this majority have had the initiative, a long time ago, to move forward with the creation of a Social Economy Basics Act that would allow the creation of a modernizing framework and regeneration in the various sectors. And this Social Economy Basics Act was unanimously approved here by all parliamentary groups, and it did not deserve to be challenged. It is following this Law of Basics of Social Economy and the rules contained in it that we have seen here, now, to present this bill for the cooperative code, for a new, innovative and more modern regulation of the cooperative sector. I would highlight here what has not yet been done, after saying, as has already been said, that this proposal results from those which were the recommendations of the National Council for Social Economy (CNES ), the Working Group for the Review of the Social Economy Legislation and the hearings that were held in due course to CONFECOOP, the National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives and the Portugal Agricultural Credit ( CONFAGRI ), ANIMAR ( Portuguese Association for Local Development), CASES ( Cooperative António Sérgio for Social Economy), etc. Therefore, underlying this proposal is what has been said here that there was no: a broad debate and a broad consensus, a debate which will continue here, already with the parliamentary groups, in the specialty, being perfectly supportive of the proposal that this project should go down, without voting, to the speciality, precisely to allow this debate. In conclusion, I would now do what has not yet been done, which is to highlight what is innovative in this initiative and will allow the cooperative sector to modernise itself, renew itself, regenerate itself. I would say that, with this proposal, we will allow cooperatives with the minimum number of three co-operatives, we will allow three alternative and different models of cooperative governance, rather than one monolytic, which could serve large cooperatives and not serve small ones, adjusted to the size and type of cooperative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u37	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will also impose the rule that an official auditor or a company of official auditors must be appointed by the General Assembly. As regards incompatibilities, we clarify that, being the co-ordinator elected a collective person, incompatibility refers to natural persons who belong to it. We have established the rule of one member, one vote, and I would have more measures to announce here, but for lack of time, I cannot announce them. I finish by saying, yes, the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u39	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u40	I announced that I would finish, Mr President, with the due tolerance of 10 seconds. I will conclude by saying the following: with this proposal, we want to fully respect the principles of the social economy — cooperation, solidarity, collective benefit — and to introduce, in accordance with these principles,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u41	And by the time, too, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u42	... the changes we see necessary for their modernization. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u43	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u44	Mr President, despite the goodwill expressed in the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, in fact we have many reasons to doubt the motives of the authors of this initiative. I'll tell you why. in the previous legislation, the PSD presented a draft revision of the Constitution in which it proposed the repeal of important constitutional standards in this area. The draft constitutional review of the PSD proposes, for example, the repeal of Article 82. the, whose paragraph 4 refers to the cooperative and social sector, and also proposes the elimination of Article 85 ( 3 ). the, which concerns State support to the cooperative sector. Therefore, those who propose to remove the constitutional relevance of the cooperative sector are certainly not very concerned about the cooperative sector. Anyone who withdraws support from the cooperative sector, putting it on an equal footing with companies without taking account of its specificities, certainly cannot be very concerned about the cooperative sector. Anyone who designs conditions of access, such as ratios of financial autonomy, profitability and others, in access to Community funds, which are absolutely inadequate to the cooperative reality, cannot be very concerned about the cooperative sector. Those who, like the PSD and the CDS, in the Durão Barroso government, have allowed the unregulated opening of commercial areas, causing the closure of many traditional and proximity trade stores where cooperatives fit in cannot be concerned about the cooperative sector. Therefore, the concerns of the PSD and the CDS, in this bill, deserve us the greatest reservations regarding their motivations and objectives. And the elements that leave us the most apart from this proposal are precisely the recognition of the possibility of plural voting and of the investor members. On the plural vote it seems to us that, in fact, if we want to ensure democratic management, the principle of a member must be maintained as a matter of necessity, and whether cooperatives are people's organisations and not capital cannot be the possession of these capitals to determine the decisions of cooperatives. The cooperatives are formed by people who want to cooperate with each other, want to work together, want to cooperate, and therefore constitute a cooperative. If this were not the case, they would constitute another collective person, not a cooperative. As regards the possibility of investor members, what we believe is that it is intended to disqualify the very nature of cooperatives. in fact, the investor members end up being subjects who will not participate in the cooperative activity, i.e., the investor members will not cooperate, will only invest. In conclusion, we want to say that this proposal, with the introduction of the plural vote and with the possibility of the investor members, conflicts with the very foundations of the organization and with the foundations of its existence, but also with the values and cooperative principles and, consequently, also ends up clashing with the principles of our Constitution, which has accepted these same values. Therefore, if the PSD and the CDS really want the consensus, they will have to give up at least the idea of plural voting and the existence of investor members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u45	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the CFP in this intervention is addressed to the cooperative movement, dedication and creative effort of thousands and thousands of men and women who contribute to development or, in this case, oppose this path of backwardness that this government wants to impose on us. We stress the issue that is central to this debate, for us, the question of cooperative principles. What is in force, and must continue, is the establishment of the cooperative principle, a vote; it is the consideration that the members of the cooperative join and participate, with their activity, not because they expect the remuneration of the capital invested but, rather, for the satisfaction of their needs, ensuring their political independence from external financiers. What the PSD and the CDS-PP come to propose with this bill is a different thing: they propose the creation of the figure of the investor member, who does not cooperate to meet their needs, before investing its capital in the cooperative to obtain a certain remuneration. They argue that the promotion of investment in cooperatives needs to be accompanied by political participation in the cooperative, but with this argument they want each member to have up to 10 % of the voting rights of the cooperative, ensuring that all of these investors have as a whole 50 % of those rights. That is to say, with this proposal and despite their reaffirmation in Article 3. the, the fulfilment of cooperative principles, in practice, reject the principle of democratic management, which in the first degree cooperatives ensures that each co-operative has only one vote. This is unforgettable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Assumem, in articles 16. o is 41. , the possibility of plural voting, which may assign more voting rights to cooperatives with greater seniority or greater activity in the cooperative. This is not the principle of democratic management. The parties of the majority, with this proposal, allow a certain member of the cooperative who has no reason to satisfy their needs by means of cooperative activity to ensure the remuneration of their capital, as if any business company were concerned. Such an option, in addition to calling into question the principle of democratic management and democratic participation, may call into question the principle of autonomy and independence. Be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! No one denies the possibility of cooperatives to associate with private entities of a clearly capitalist type and that they pursue a certain end. At no time did the CFP argue that there is no such possibility. The difference is that this type of association, also provided for in the Code in force, must not result in a cooperative itself, but must respect the cooperative principles of autonomy and independence. The PSD stated, on the majority's proposal, in this debate, that this is a code of freedom. It is appropriate to recall here the sentence of a certain French Dominican friar, elected in the French Constitution of 1848, who, between the strong and the weak, between the rich and the poor, between the lord and the servant, is the freedom that oppresses and the law that liberates. The freedom that you are talking about is that it would allow distant interests, we would say otherwise, of cooperativeism to use this regime and the code as a gauze to enter the cooperatives and also build a dominant position there. That is not a consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is to break the consensus, by deliberate choice, for the benefit of certain sectors of economic power. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP does not exclude the prospect of, in another context of participation, with other deadlines and other openness, we can work together in updating, modernizing, improving, in various aspects of the Cooperative Code, but it is important here to clarify that these changes that most of us want to introduce do not have anything new, modern or innovative. They are the return to the 1994 proposal of the PSD Government / Cavaco Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u48	And we still remember the infamous outcome they had. They do not want to impose, by the strength of the majority, the return to this scenario, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u50	What should effectively contribute to the development of the cooperative movement and initiative will not be both legal and legal solutions or profound changes in the current legal framework, although we do not reject this update, but the promotion of public policies, fulfilling the Constitution, which positively discriminate cooperative organizations, facilitate their access to financing, give cooperatives the possibility to self-finance themselves, tax exempting their results exclusively applied and invested in the cooperative, promote cooperative principles and initiative, etc. On the promotion of access to investors, it will not be through its participation in management that this possibility should be enshrined, before access to economic information and its activity, in monitoring participation and, even intervention, without the right to vote, in the assemblies, which is already planned for investors in securities and obligations of cooperatives. We must remember the long list of cooperatives that have modernised, concentrated and invested and that have ended up closing because of the lack of support from successive governments. This was very visible in certain sectors, including in agricultural cooperatives. It was not the Co-operative Code that led them to the closure. There is a way to go to defend cooperatives and cooperativeism, but this proposal of the PSD / CDS points to the opposite direction. It's a case to say, sirs. Members, who, "to worsen, it is enough". They speak in a process of participation and discussion that was carried out for months, this could be acceptable if the proposal brought here was the result of this debate, but the project that they bring here is not the same document. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u51	The document is another document and, on this document, which is under discussion, has not been duly heard by the Sérgio Cooperative for the Social Economy. We're talking about another document that's not this. Let's say it again, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 'To worse end, that is enough'! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to leave the recognition here by the organizations of the social economy and throughout the cooperative movement. His role in the national economy has already been greatly stressed here. Today, a Member of the CDS said here that this government initiative was remarkable. I would say that it is remarkable that the Government is not taking part in this debate. It is that the Government must answer to Parliament and we would like to ask the Government to report to us on this process and to clarify how it has developed and to bring us here, today, in a speedy way, at the end of the legislature, to take up this debate. I would like to make a brief chronology of the one who was the process that brings us here today. Mr. Secretary of State for Solidarity and Social Security, Marco António Costa, asked the Cooperative António Sérgio for the Social Economy to bring together the social partners and constituted a working group that could contribute to the development of the new cooperative code, with the aim of being able to update. This working group was coordinated by the president of CASES ( Cooperative António Sérgio for the Social Economy), who, in turn, invited, among other social partners, CONFAGRI (National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives and Agricultural Credits in Portugal) and Confegoop ( Portuguese Cooperative Confederation ), who, on their initiative, also indicated two experts in these matters, who helped to do this work. The amendments have been worked and consensualized, with the exception of matters related to the introduction of plural voting and investment partners, for which the Socialist Party's position has also been left very clearly here. Such a code of freedom, which Mr. José Manuel Canavarro spoke of here recently, in a tone which is already less serene than usual and which was part of his initial intervention, after all, comes here to introduce a set of amendments which were not planned and were not consensualized, because this process was completed by the President of CASES and has already been sent to the current Secretary of State, Augustine Branquinho, who left him « in the bathroom», pretending to be asleep. Thus, a document that was faithful to the position of the different partners after being sent to the Secretary of State almost two years later was, at the initiative of the Secretary of State, sent to the Assembly of the Republic, through written information rather than in the form of a bill, as it would be expected and as it had been agreed in this working group. Therefore, the goodness of this solution is a very questionable kindness and this information that is sent no longer reflects the consensus that was found in this working group. In fact, this information is used by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS, who present the proposal that has been scheduled for today, with an urgent nature, and is here under discussion. Despite your speech, this proposal does not refer anywhere to the contribution of the working group, but is done on the basis of these work and is presented as an initiative of the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State gave the work to the parties of the majority that support the government and these parties, not even referring to the work that has been done. Did you mention him here in the speech? They don't mention it in your proposal! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Moreover, according to Confegoop, the President of the Sérgio Social Economic Co-operative, who coordinated the working group, was not even informed of the changes that have been made and sent to the Assembly of the Republic in the form of information. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted you to tell us, after all, how this process was done. Why has the government given this work to the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups? Why are they presenting this initiative? It is because of the lack of parliamentary initiative of the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS? Oh, my God! Where does the government's responsibility go and the use of public resources and where does the work of political parties begin? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to know whether you even think that this kind of behaviour is ethical. We don't think it's much to value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u54	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « We want a system for people and not people for a system ». This is an emblematic PSD phrase that fits perfectly with what we expect from the cooperative sector. And this is a paradigm that should guide this sector: that it adapts, that it goes to meet the demands of today's reality, that it does not hold itself to an immobilist past, which has led it gradually to the failure and distancing of what is the reality of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u56	Go to the meeting in 1994!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u57	Cooperativeism must adapt to the profound social, economic and cultural changes society has been facing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u58	This is the 1994 proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u59	This adaptation must be built by all, everyone has the responsibility to build, because only with this help and with the collaboration of all can we have an essential consensus for the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u60	I'm 22 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u61	We want an active cooperative sector, which remains faithful to its principles but is able at all times to build on the indispensable economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u62	Talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u63	in the agricultural sector, which everyone knows, cooperativeism has played a very important and irreplaceable role in recent decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u65	It has contributed to the cohesion of rural communities and their progress, through technical support and vocational training, enhancing the promotion of quality and environmental protection, always with an essential role in the development of a social economy that has settled in the development of the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u67	In fact, it is precisely in the agricultural sector that this organisation is most represented by around 30 % of cooperatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u69	I recall, for example, that more than 70 % of national milk production is marketed by the cooperative sector, this value in wine is 42 %, in olive oil is 30 % and in fruit is 25 %. In view of this representativeness it is easy to conclude that national agricultural policy can never ignore this form of organization, on the contrary, it has to encourage and improve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u72	To defend a strong and prosperous agricultural sector is to bet on sustainable production, but it is, above all, to stimulate its marketing fairly, creating opportunities for all types of producers, particularly for the smaller ones, who have the greatest difficulties in the flow of their products. As such, we advocate the existence of proximity markets as a commercial alternative to smaller producers, but we also defend and believe that cooperatives have a fundamental role in concentrating the supply of small farmers, offering them the critical mass so desired to survive. This is an opportunity, introduced in this code, to create associations between cooperatives and other collectives. in the same sense, cooperatives that work the sustainable development of their communities should improve their relations with each other and link to the market. This is essential because competition is strong and very concentrated. Mrs. Members, the importance of cooperativeism in the agricultural sector has decreased in the last 15 years, which shows that many of these cooperative organisations have not been able to monitor the pace of changes in a more competitive and constantly modernising economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u73	The Holy Spirit Group is that I knew!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u74	Their failure has essentially affected small farmers, those who have no market alternatives and who need more of these cooperatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u76	On the other hand, there were others who were able to resist, and there are among the resistant agricultural cooperatives specialized in successful products at national and international level, such as the western rock pear or the olive oil of the Portalegre Agricultural Cooperative, considered by some markets as the best in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u78	That's right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u79	But the code has to apply to everyone else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u80	in these cases, the associates, although they have remained faithful to the principles of cooperativeism, have learned to have a market-oriented view, betting on products that have more quality, higher value added and that achieve greater economic value in the market. They thus ensure their social function through the economic profitability of hundreds of small producers who need these cooperatives to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u82	Without this complementarity between the social and the economy, the permanence of these institutions is compromised. This is the real essence of the social economy and there is no other way to encourage the creation of new cooperatives, new equipment of this kind of economy. in the Portuguese case, there is a need to innovate and adapt the old cooperative rules to new social realities and structures as a way of dealing with production factors, either in control and management, in the distribution of net income, in the rescue of social capital or in price policy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the great challenge of agriculture is the great function of feeding a growing world population. For this to happen we must ensure that all forms of marketing and food flow are sustainable, sustain and reach all those who need it. One of these forms is the cooperative sector and, for that, the cooperative sector has to be strong and dynamic and has to allow people to access it. It has to be a sector that allows the flow of food by many of the small producers, because that is the only way we can reach a certain population which, without it, is impossible to do so. This will be the imperative reason for all parties to get rid of some ties of the past and look at this innovation, this change, as an essential key to keeping agricultural cooperativeism alive...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u83	It's not a lawn, it's a key!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u84	... and in shape, because it is necessary for small producers and for many Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u85	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make two first notes which relate to the Basics of Social Economy Act, discussed in this Parliament and approved, as has already been said unanimously, which is indeed of great importance also to the Left Block. What we never confuse is the role of the social economy as a substitute for the role of the State. We understand that the social economy has its role, but under no circumstances, as the government has often done, it can replace the role of the State, especially in the areas of social action. Let's not profile the idea that this is the paradigm. For us, this is not the new paradigm, the social economy can be complementary but must never replace the state. Today, we are discussing the new cooperative code and many of you. Members have already raised questions about certain situations which this code provides and which distort, in our view, the genesis of what it is and what cooperativeism should be. We know the history of the cooperative organization in Europe, the world and Portugal, and this story has much to do with the fact that cooperatives are equal associations, of joint production, at the most various levels, of being associations for the liberation of the capitalist exploitation regime. And this is where «each person, one vote », « all equal », is the equal association, is the association that releases a regime that oppresses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u88	I believe, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the amendments and the appropriateness that the cooperative sector needs in order to adapt to our day, this is the genesis that must be maintained. And this is where this bill runs counter to the genesis of the cooperative sector itself, when the question of plural voting and the investor members are foreseen in the exact terms that are entered here. On the other hand, it raises other problems which have not yet been mentioned, which I want to address now and which have exactly to do with the right of the cooperatives to vote in the confederations and in the cooperative unions. This is because this plural vote is not only reflected in the micro-organization of the cooperative but then in the organization at a level above. [[PSD protests.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is also said here is that cooperatives may have different weight within the confederations, not only as regards the number of votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u89	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u90	I will finish, Mr. President. I would say, not only on the question of the number of votes but also on their representation. And this can lead to first and second cooperatives. They say, "Mrs." Members who do not impose rules and who are only options. So if you don't impose rules and they're just options, this code can't be so detailed. We can't have a law that says, can, can, can, can... The law must be objective...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u91	Objective on the options you take!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u92	...and, in this case, minimalist, because in order to provide for democracy and freedom of cooperatives and cooperatives, these rules cannot be entered in this way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u93	Mr Miguel Laranjeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are virtually at the end of the parliamentary debate on the revision of the Co-operative Code and I cannot fail to welcome all those who serve the social economy and, in this case, serve cooperativeism. I would like to highlight the importance of this debate, the importance of the Co-operative Code and all the legislation underlying it and governs this sector. The cooperative sector is important. It is important in the world, in Europe, but, above all, in Portugal, which has more than 2200 cooperatives, more than 34 000 workers, of people directly involved in the day-to-day cooperatives. Therefore, this is an important, relevant and significant presence in Portuguese society, in the economy, in the social area, in education, finally, in many sectors that I do not want to lose any emphasis. The Socialist Party has always been in the front line of the defense of the cooperative sector, its movement, its action. We always appreciate the principle of solidarity and entrepreneurship of civil society, we value, in essence, the cooperative organization and we have, in the history of the Socialist Party, some of the most relevant socialists linked precisely to the cooperative movement. But in the past as today, the State must be a supporter of this dynamic of society and the Socialist Party will always be, as it was in the past, in line with those who want a modern, demanding cooperative sector, capable of naturally adapting to the future, never distorting its cooperative matrix and identity and the precepts that are underlying it. We recognize that, in the face of the evolution of the last decades of society and of the sector itself, at national and international level, and of the mechanisms governing economic and social activity, if some changes are to be made in the Co-operative Code. I believe that it is practically consensual that cooperatives should adapt to the needs and requirements of the market in the use of financial resources and even in the search for other forms of financing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are questions that are raised in this debate, and some of them have already been pointed out here. In relation to the first, from a temporary and method point of view, the Government sent to the Assembly of the Republic the draft which was taken advantage of and accommodated by the majority PSD / CDS-PP, which transformed it into a bill. A very relevant matter, very important, so important that we have the absence of the government itself. [[PS laughter.]] The question I would also like to leave, which is a question of respect for the entire cooperative sector, is the following: we do not see—and here the temporal dimension—that in a few months of the forthcoming legislative elections to the present majority, I would say to the future old majority, at the end of the term of office, we intend to amend the Co-operative Code. If Mr. Adam Silva will allow me, here I would like to recall his words: "Let us begin today,..." — we are in May! — «... a very relevant process». In fact, the process is very relevant and we are starting it today. I think it's a little late, but we can go on time. It is therefore not clear that a matter of this relevance did not have a broad consensus, which would be necessary, for the proposed amendments. Such legislation would require a consensus of the cooperative movement, of the agents who fight for this sector every day. We believe that the method was not the best, but that it can be overcome if the current majority is willing, in the field of expertise, to hold the hearings and the necessary amendments. I would like to record Mr José Manuel Canavarro's first intervention here, which has shown openness to a consensus effort. We are waiting for that moment in the committee. There are subjects we follow, such as those concerning the governance of cooperatives. We are talking about a 1997 legislation at the time adopted unanimously. In 1997, I repeat, we were able to adopt the Co-operative Code unanimously in this Chamber. It is natural that almost 20 years later some changes are required. Nothing is static and, over these years, it is natural that amendments should take place, and the Socialist Party is receptive to debate. however, there are other subjects on which we have founded reserves and which, in fact, have already been mentioned here, especially in the way they are presented in the bill. Looking at the plural vote and the figure of the investors, participating in the capital of the cooperatives, we must analyze these two points carefully and do this analysis in the specialized committee; we must look at the constitutional and legal issues; we must look at the origin, for the desired, for the objectives of the cooperatives, which are in the founding matrix of cooperativeism; we must look at the current society, for the demands, for the economy; we must also look at the future, of course. It is in the balance of these dimensions that we will achieve the best degree, which defends a sector that the Socialist Party, and others, have always valued. We need to find methodologies that allow cooperatives to become more active, without, for example, turning them into commercial companies. For this, there will be other codes that accompany them, there are other legal forms that we certainly do not want to replicate. We will now discuss the diploma, without voting in general, according to the PSD proposal and the Socialist Party is accompanying, hoping that a majority will be opened for these amendments. We are going to a debate that will allow unanimity. That is the appeal I leave here, in the name of cooperativeism and of all those who contribute daily to their success. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u95	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, at this stage of closure of this debate, to hear everything you see. Ex., ladies and gentlemen. Members, here mentioned with a lot of ownership, remember that it was the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS that presented a basic law of the social economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u98	It was the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS that had the greatest openness to build what would be the approval of the Basics of the Social Economy Act. One step at a time in strengthening dialogue with the institutions of social solidarity. That was the beginning of the path which we want to bring here today as another tool of work. The Government, within CASES, built a dialogue with the institutions of social solidarity, which allowed it to approve the Statute of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity, a statute that was built with its representatives and in a dialogue with these institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u100	Also, in keeping with what is defined in the Basics of Social Economy Act, the Government has launched, at the level of the National Council for Social Economy, the setting up of a working group, which has drawn up a document, which I have here with me, Mrs. Members, and who, after consensualization, only in seven articles there was no consensus between the two confederations representing the cooperative sector, solidarity and social, CONFAGRI and CONFECOOP, only in these points have diverged. What were you doing? Did you look in the drawer? We didn't act? We were conformed because they managed to wake up in one aspect and those not? Why does CONFAGRI propose plural voting and CONFECOOP maintain the principles of the international cooperative alliance? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! in the line of thought of our Parliamentary Group, with the support, collaboration and working together with the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, we developed in these points a vision that tried to reconcile the other points of view of CONFECOOP with CONFAGRI, both of the cooperative movement. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u101	There are not the good and other bad, both build a cooperative movement, based on the same principles, in the same values, in the same definition. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Government is not here today. They say, "Mrs." Members who should be, but the Government has done its part: it has sent and complied with the will of these partners, it has sent the document, the same for all — I repeat, the same for all — with the position of all the partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u103	Whoever wanted him to work. We have done our part and are available, together with all of us, to give voice to the cooperative movement to consolidate its strength so that it can continue to be a very relevant expression in our economy. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the cooperative movement, the construction of the future is a long walk, open to new challenges in which cooperatives have to extend their ambition and we believe that they can make a significant contribution to promoting the local economy, to creating jobs, what we need so much, and to combating social inequalities, based on their values. The contribution we intend to make with the presentation of this cooperative code law is, in addition to a wide range of aspects, which have already been presented, to give a new impetus to leverage the role of the cooperative movement, of cooperatives, in themselves, for the construction of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u106	We want to contribute to the cooperative movement to gain a new dynamic, encouraged by this new cooperative code and to promote the social economy, not in an isolated perspective, but rather in a dynamic, innovative perspective capable of overcoming new challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u108	The Portuguese cooperative movement is based on cooperative principles, enshrined by the International Cooperative Alliance, and has constitutional strength. But life changes, times change, realities are demanding...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u109	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u110	... and today, the European Cooperative Society already includes new dynamics. We can't stop looking at this reality. That is why we want a robust cooperative sector, firm in its principles and values, innovative, free from subordination to ideologies, which, on the basis of the initiative of its co-operatives, leverage the sector and affirm it in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u112	Nothing better than encouraging young people to the cooperative movement and, contrary to what has been mentioned here, the Instituto António Sérgio promoted movement and support for young cooperatives and, in the first quarter of 2015, there was the investment that came to take place: instead of destroying and closing cooperatives, 20 cooperatives have already opened up...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u113	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u114	... and, of the 20 cooperatives that were created, six were built by impulse of the COOPJOVEM program. It was good that the ladies were here. Members followed these realities so that they would not say that the government does not. He did, and well, and in good time he did it! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u115	As far as the cooperative movement is concerned, we are convinced that, with the contribution of everyone in the field of expertise, we will work to provide the country with a new cooperative code in which everyone sees each other. I welcome the Portuguese co-operatives, regardless of their views, either from CONFECOOP or CONFAGRI, both contribute to solidarity, innovation, development and, above all, to cooperation based on great freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-14.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not registering any more, so we have reached the end of our agenda. We will meet tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m. and with the following agenda: Point one, election of the President of the Economic and Social Council ; Point two, discussion, in general, of Bill No. 318 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, in accordance with Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy ; Point three, general discussion of the proposal for law No 322 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August, transposing Directive 2014 / 40 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001 / 37 / EC and Directive 2014 / 109 / EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014 / 40 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, establishing the library of warnings to be used in tobacco products ; Point four, overall assessment of Bill No 320 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the availability and use of electronic public procurement platforms provided for in the Public Contracts Code and transposes Article 29. Directive 2014 / 23 / EU, Article 22. the and Annex IV to Directive 2014 / 24 / EU and Article 40. the and Annex V to Directive 2014 / 25 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 ; Point five, discussion, in general, of Bill No. 321 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the legal arrangements for the organisation of the services of inter-municipal entities and the status of their respective management personnel; Point six, assessment of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015, of 12 February, establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, developing the legal regime of the transfer of competence of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September[ Parliamentary assessment No 132 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; Point 7 discussion of motion for a resolution No 110 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which was adopted in Seoul on 12 November 2012 ; Point 8 and last, as a result of the vote, at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 54 minutes.]]
