ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Mr Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Parliamentary assessments Nos 131 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities ( PS ), and 132 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February 2015 establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, developing the legal regime for the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September ( PCP ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1261 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the holding of an Intergovernmental Conference to discuss the public debt problem of the Member States of the European Union and to initiate the procedure for the repeal of the Budgetary Treaty ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission ; 1262 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent resolution of the problems facing emergency services ( CFP ) ; 1263 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the publication of the Satellite Tourism Account ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1264 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a programme to prevent and diagnose hepatitis C and adopt measures guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of the Portuguese State in the area of medicine ( PCP ) ; 1265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of guidelines on administrative decentralization policies ( PS ), which goes down to 11. the Commission, and 1266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On prevention of HCV and making treatment more suitable for patients with hepatitis C ( The Greens) available. They also entered, and were admitted by the Bureau, the projects of lein.o 770 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the parish of Buarcos, in the municipality of Figueira da Foz, to Buarcos and São Julião ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 778 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) ; 779 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Scheme establishing the Extraordinary Contribution on the Energy Sector ( PCP ) ; 780 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Repeals Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April, which sets out the criteria for categorizing the services and establishments of the National Health Service ( SNS ), according to the nature of their responsibilities and the framework of the valences exercised, and their positioning of the hospital network and proceeds to their classification ( PS ), and 781 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of shipwreck or disappearance of a vessel ( BE). Finally, the Bureau received and admitted motions for resolutions 108 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014 and 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to Review the Framework Agreement on Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, signed in Macao on 17 May 2014 which both fall to 2. the Commission. As for the file, that is all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start the agenda with the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on anemia of investment, stagnation of the economy and social crisis. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opening of this kind of debate is made by the party presenting the initiative, in this case, the PS. Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: Settle down the house! Set up the house and then grow up. The expression is my but well reflects the idea, propagated by some, that it was necessary to impose a high level of austerity on the country, to put the public accounts in order, balance the external accounts and create the basis for a healthy growth that one day would eventually arrive... one day... In 2011 the PSD and CDS did not announce that, with their policy, the Portuguese, to get better, would have before it got worse. No one warned Portuguese people that they would have to be poorer before they enriched, that inequality would still have to increase, that many young people would have to emigrate, that state workers and pensioners would have to lose more income and that the National Health Service's emergencies would have to become this chaos. No one warned the Portuguese. But that's what happened. It was austerity. It had to be. It is the speech of those who have always said that there was and there is no alternative to austerity. In fact, to be able to say that there was no alternative to austerity had to have attempted, at least tempted, to seek a decent alternative, to fight for it. But that's not what happened. Not only the Prime Minister, still in the campaign, said that the troika program was his program, as he would go there. This was perhaps the only promise that was fulfilled. Soon in the first Budget the level of austerity that had been negotiated with the troika was doubled. They cannot therefore say that there was no alternative to austerity. Austerity was really your program. And the consequences are in sight: In four years the Portuguese economy fell 5 %. Real GDP in 2014 was at the level of 2001. Last year showed anemic growth of 0, 9 % and already slowing down in the fourth quarter. Exports in 2014, unlike the celebrations that were made, presented the fifth weakest growth rate of the last 20 years... 20 years! But if exports have seen their growth slow down, imports have seen it accelerate. During the year 2014 imports increased again than exports. It was sufficient for a slight recovery of employment and private consumption so that imports would return to force. The imbalance in our external accounts is therefore far from settled. The structural transformation of the Portuguese economy, unfortunately, did not occur. It is enough to say that investment in GDP—and without investment there is no modernisation, only regression—if it remained for the 15, 8 % in the third quarter of 2014, the lowest value at least since 1960. As everyone knows, today's exports are the result of yesterday's investment and tomorrow's exports are the result of today's investment. And today we know that between 2010 and 2013 private investment fell 20 % and public investment fell 62 %. It is mainly because of the investment that we should be concerned about, because no economy can grow and modernise itself without investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's simply impossible! And it is for this debate that the Socialist Party wants to contribute. The high indebtedness of Portuguese companies is one of the main obstacles to private investment. The allocation of EUR 100 million which the Government has allocated under the SME Growth programme for the capitalisation of our companies is marginal in view of the size of the problem. We support the creation of a capitalisation fund, financed by the reimbursement of Community funds, by public funds and by means of redirected gold visas for this purpose, in order to enable Portuguese companies to capitalise and strengthen their financial autonomy. We also understand that fiscal neutrality between equity and other capital must be guaranteed. There is no reason for the financial costs associated with foreign capital to be deductible in tax terms and the same does not happen when it comes to equity. Community funds are by far the most important instrument available to us to promote the development and modernisation of our economy. We are concerned that the new Community framework has abandoned a policy for the promotion and development of competitiveness poles and clusters. If we want to maximize the possibilities for development through scarce resources, we have to make choices. We therefore propose that the incentive system for companies should favour the fact that the applicant companies integrate clusters or competitiveness poles. We are concerned that a more restrictive incentive scheme has been established, which is not appropriate at the time of the economic crisis in which we live and at the difficulties of financing and capitalising Portuguese companies. by reducing the scope and percentage of non-reimbursement support is in practice doubling the financial effort of companies. We therefore propose that the rules for the exemption of refunds be revised in order to give more favourable conditions to investment. We are concerned that the government has gone beyond the constraints imposed by Community legislation on State aid to larger companies. One of these limitations relates to the definition used of what innovative projects are, which does not allow some projects to invest productive capacity expansion in activities with dynamic international research or in activities of high technological content. We therefore propose that these limitations be revised. On the issue of the INE investigation to companies on which the limiting factors of business investment, entrepreneurs invariably respond to the same: deterioration of sales prospects. It is the search, or rather the lack of it, that explains the weak prospects of investment. That is why, without losing sight of the concern about the return of external imbalances, we believe that halting austerity and stimulating demand is essential to recover the Portuguese economy. A virtuous way of doing is promoting urban rehabilitation. The next Community support framework allocates a small amount for the rehabilitation of housing buildings. This is a very intensive activity at work and with a relatively small import component. We therefore propose diversification of the applications of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by mobilizing a share — not more than 10 % — for the acquisition and rehabilitation of fires and fires of families at risk of insolvency, which would be used to create an affordable income market. This proposal achieves different objectives, but as far as this debate is concerned, we know that it would have a strong impact on the generation of medium and low-skilled employment; it would boost investment; it would enable the revival of the construction materials industry; it would promote energy efficiency and greatly improve the tourist attractiveness of cities. These are some proposals for an urgent debate in Portugal. Betting on investment and modernising our economy requires consensus beyond the left or right. It demands a patriotic consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u5	The Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor to make his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Leaders of Parliamentary committees, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anemia, says the PS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u7	Entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u8	... stagnation, says the PS ; social crisis, says the PS. Let us see: this Government has inherited from the Socialist Party a legacy that I would rather not adjective — uncontrollable deficit, economy to plunge into recession, imminent bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u9	It must be added to this diagnosis, which is factual, a painful consequence: the evolution of unemployment. Or has the Socialist Party already forgotten that unemployment jumped from 7% in 2005 to 12,7% in May 2011? Oh, my God! [[That's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u10	Financial failure, economic decline and social crisis are all the consequences of a failed economic model, an unsustainable financial revenue, which struck against the wall in 2011. As a result, the adjustment programme we inherited in 2011. The PSD/CDS Government was, for three years, an emergency government, strongly conditioned, indeed, by the policies established by the troika. It was hard and difficult times that the Portuguese, in many respects, will not want to forget, and it is good not to forget, because they are the consequence of the political and financial irresponsibility of the socialist governments of José Socrates. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Everything indicates that, unfortunately, the PS, now with new clothes, new faces,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u11	... if it is to remain faithful to this painful tradition: the capitalization of small and medium-sized enterprises with state money. Long live socialism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u12	There's no other one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u13	But it was also during these hard years that our government took advantage to make the reforms, long overdue, to make the economy more competitive,... [[PS laughter.]] ... as the indicators of competitiveness and the evolution of our exports, which were not in a brilliant year, expressly recognize it—it was only the best year ever, the year 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u15	And, therefore, the State is increasingly affirming itself as a partner in the private sector. The private sector turned abroad and gave a remarkable, first, example of survival and now, though moderate, growth and wealth creation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting the available results of this Parliament. First: in 2011 Portugal was bankrupt and had no access to financial markets, because we were asked for two-digit interest rates. Today, Portugal is a country with fluid market access and historically low interest rates. Portugal has recovered its credibility, a fundamental value for any economy, for any social state. According to : in 2011, the country clashed with reality and plunged into the recession, with an external deficit close to 10 %. Portugal today is a growing country, based on a healthier economic model and with external accounts with surpluses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u16	Is it healthier? Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u17	Third : in 2011 Portugal had already been six years — one, two, three, four, five, six years! — consecutive increase in unemployment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u18	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u19	...has risen from 7, 2 % to 12, 7% during the Socialist Party governments led by José Socrates. Portugal now lives on a net job creation process since the beginning of 2013 — more than 60 000 jobs were created on average during the years 2013 and 2014. Since 2013 unemployment has fallen from 17, 7 % to 13, 4 %, an even higher rate. We are aware that every person who wants to work and has no work is deprived of a fundamental part of his dignity as a human person, but we believe that the legislation will end with unemployment falling and with levels below that we receive from the socialist heritage. We are working on this, and when I say "we are" I am talking about the private sector with the help of the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u20	Where unemployment has increased has been in the public!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u21	Fourth: finally and despite the many adversities we still know in 2014, this was the first year of the recovery of the investment. We had a rise of almost 6 % in the first three quarters of 2014, with particular emphasis on the productive investment that rose. For example, in the area of machinery and equipment, 11 % grew. I recognize that it is still a moderate growth, not enough, but certainly a reversal of the cycle for the first time in many years. The year 2014 was an economic turning point. Did the Socialist Party like it wasn't? The year 2014 marked the end of financial assistance. Would the Socialist Party prefer that she have kept herself? The year 2014 was the first year of some social improvement. I do not believe that the Socialist Party wished otherwise. The truth is the Socialist Party has done everything for it. If the country had given in to the cry of oppositions and, in particular, the Socialist Party, another story, at this moment, Portugal would have to tell: the history of the tragedy of a second ransom, with more sacrifices and much more social costs. The end of assistance and economic turning was only possible because Portugal had only one rescue and one government over the past almost four years. The PS well would have liked it not to have been. Even under the pressure of a rescue, and contrary to what the Socialist Party says, the government has not abandoned the social state and has given answers to the most deprived, as far as needs are concerned but also as far as our possibilities are concerned. Only a financially sustainable state has the choice of being a social state, something very simple and obvious but that the Socialist Party and the radical left pretends not to understand. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, after the opening speeches, this debate has two laps. In the first round, which we will begin, the interventions are as follows : PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE, The Greens and Government. I therefore give the floor to Mr Luís Leite Ramos, for the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : 2014 was the year of consolidation of the trajectory of recovery of the Portuguese economy and the rebalancing of public accounts. GDP has grown for the first time since 2010 ; exports have had their best year, exceeding EUR 70 billion; unemployment has fallen 2, 3 %; interest rates at 10 years have fallen to historic levels of 2, 72 % in the secondary market ; the convergence of the Portuguese economy with the euro area has resumed and will continue, to what is indicated in 2015. The strategy of this government and the majority to rescue the bankruptcy country, where the PS has left it, is producing indisputable results, returning hope to the Portuguese. Having the responsibilities, numbers and reality, the Socialist Party, after the tireless prophecies of the recessive spiral, today brings to this House an urgent debate questioning the anemia of investment, the stagnation of the economy and the social crisis. It is something like, after leaving the country in a coma, connected to the troika machine, with a draconian prescription to fulfill, and after a hard and demanding treatment, the PS, looking at Portugal already walking through its own feet, exclaims: « you walk but do not run! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Socialist Party provides us with a debate on the stagnation of the economy at the same time as the INE estimates that GDP will have grown by around 0, 9 % in 2014, and that the European Commission has raised growth projections to 1, 6 % for 2015. We agreed that it could not be more timely. at this moment, it is inevitable that we remember the last invested of the PS around the recessive spiral or the Unrealizable State Budget. Fortunately for Portugal, in none of the cases the prophecies of the Socialist Party have been fulfilled. The growth of 0, 9 % is still a short and insufficient growth for the country's aspirations, but it is good to remember where we were three years ago and what the way we went was. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u24	Since 2011 the country has been experiencing a steady and progressive change in GDP, which will happen again during 2015, with government forecasts pointing to 1, 5 %, already confirmed or even up-to-date reviews. This growth confirms the trajectory of recovery of the Portuguese economy and the correct strategy of the government and the majority to rescue the bankruptcy country, where the PS left it. But for the first time in the history of democratic Portugal, the country's economy grew without indebtedness, that is, without sacrificing future growth. How does the socialist thesis of the recessive spiral or of the stagnant country coincide with these facts and with reality? And as if this were not enough to refute the opposition thesis, when we look at European partners quickly we see the value of growth of 0, 9 %: the euro area grew 0, 8 % in 2014 and is estimated 1, 3 % in 2015. If this data is confirmed, Portugal will have two consecutive years of convergence with Europe and, in particular, with regard to the euro area. Looking at the past, for the two government legislatures of Eng.o Socrates, we cannot help but remember that between 2005 and 2011 Portugal has constantly diverged from the euro area partners. When, before the 2008 / 2009 crisis, the PS said there was no crisis, we diverged; today, when the PS says there is stagnation in the economy, we converge. The PS continues to have a difficult and problematic relationship with reality. With reality and responsibility. The PS doesn't want to know about the country, the PS only thinks about elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, in the last 40 years in democratic Portugal, the trade balance was only positive in 2013 and 2014. In 2014, the balance was EUR 2374 million, representing 1, 4 % of GDP and corresponding to a coverage rate of 103, 5 %. A much higher value than the average of - 8, 4 % of GDP in the 1990s. The rebalancing of the trade balance was only possible through the maintenance of strong export growth and greater dynamism of domestic demand associated with growth. When we look at the coverage rate, only at the property level between 2005 and 2011, we never passed from 63 % to 9 %. Today, and for the third consecutive year, the export coverage rate is above 80 %. And is the increase in this ratio achieved mostly at the cost of a reduction in imports? No, no, no. Between 2008 and 2014 imports of goods decreased by 5, 5 billion euro, 8, 5 % negative. During the same period, exports of goods increased by 24 %, over EUR 10 billion. Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, interest in Portuguese debt today has reached new historical minimums. This continued reduction in the financial burden of the State was only possible because we regained the credibility lost by the socialist government of Eng.o Socrates, because we were able to fulfill and close the Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance without a cautious program and without a second rescue, as so often the socialist bank announced. Greater credibility in the country therefore means better conditions of financing for the State, for businesses and for families, i.e. better conditions for investment, economic growth and job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u25	Paulo Portas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u26	The government and the majority have done everything to return this credibility to Portugal, rescuing the bankruptcy country where they found it. They have achieved this because they have been determined and persistent, ensuring Portugal over the past four years the indispensable recovery and financial and economic stabilization. The results are in sight and are irreversible. The economy has increased again, unemployment continues to decline, job creation to recover. Despite the bad pressures and socialist prophecies, Portugal is in good hands and is in the right way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u27	The intervention of the PS is followed, through Mr Pedo Nuno Santos. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u28	Mr President, Mr Minister, other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: The blame is on the PS... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u29	Until the end! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u30	The blame is on PS in 2011 and the blame is on PS in 2015. Although they have said « never justify governance with the past», they cannot, at the end of four years, stop justifying the present with the past. And who doesn't, who tries to justify their governance with 2011 is because, in reality, has nothing to present in the present. And, normally, those who do not have to present in the present will lose elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u31	Presumption and water for sale, each one takes what he wants! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Members speak of GDP growth and are satisfied with 0, 9 %, which was for example less than Spain and less than Greece. [[PSD protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no virtuosity to add to this. We've finished the year already on deceleration. Mr. Minister said 2014 was the best year ever for Portuguese exports. In fact, if I had said the same in 2013, it would also have been the best year ever. E 2011, e 2008, e 2007 and 2006....
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u33	Yes, 2008, yes! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, every year are the best years of ever more than 20 years, with the exception of 2009 and 1993. The novelty in 2014 is not that, Minister. The novelty in 2014 is that exports show the fifth weakest growth rate of the last 20 years. This is the novelty of 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u36	The Minister also forgets that there is the other side of the trade balance, which is the imports. Let us therefore ignore that in 2008 Portugal and Europe have been devastated by the biggest financial and economic crisis in the last 80 years; let us not forget that in 2010 a crisis of sovereign debts in Europe has erupted; let us ignore that Portugal has not been the only country to be hit. What we cannot ignore, whatever you want, is that we are in 2015, and in 2015 you cannot produce results.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u37	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u38	Not even in the external balance! It was sufficient for a slight recovery of demand, of consumption, so that imports would grow again more than exports. What the Minister does not understand is that there has been no change in our economy and that unfortunately there is only a slight recovery in domestic demand so that the imbalance will return. It is not a work of this government. The balance we achieved, the reduction in imports we achieved, was at the expense of impoverishment. The price of this surplus is called mass poverty and unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the Minister cannot ignore the question of investment — and it is no longer the PS to say so — it is the entrepreneurs. Mr. Minister once again celebrates the investment. A cumulative fall of 30 % between 2011 and 2013, an unprecedented fall, a weight of investment in GDP unprecedented in the history of Portugal, and does the Minister come here to celebrate the investment? Oh, my God! In 2014, after the accumulated fall of 30 %, according to entrepreneurs, growth will be 1 %, and a 2, 2 % reduction will occur again in 2015. And in the manufacturing industries, Minister, the fall in investment is even greater : 3, 2 % in 2014 and 5, 1 % in 2015. Unfortunately, there is no reason to celebrate. But, in reality, what you have to present to the country is very little, beyond the responsibility of the PS. at the end of four years, they cannot justify your governance and therefore systematically use 2011. But the truth is that we have tabled proposals here, we have put forward six concrete proposals to try to return to investment in Portugal, and on this matter neither a word from the PSD bench, nor a word from Mr Minister. And that is, again, the challenge we have here, which is perhaps the greatest goal of this country: to get investment, in fact, to recover and accelerate, because the Minister knows very well that without investment there are no exports. Mr. Minister said recently that it was not a very happy year for exports but was the best of all. It was 3 %, I said recently, one of the worst in the last 20 years. We have an obligation to bet on investment and on this matter—we have already said it from there, from the rostrum—we wanted a consensus, beyond the left and beyond the right, a patriotic consensus, and that is the challenge that we challenge the government, that we release to the PSD and the CDS : leave 2011, we will talk about 2015 and the future of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u39	The next intervention is the CDS-PP. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has not been long and we have had two PSs by the same speaker: we had this PS, more recent, that I would say it is the PS of my guilt—although I have interpreted it in a somewhat ironic way, because I think it will not have been a sincere fault— and we had the initial PS, which was the PS which, I confess, made me more perplexed, because it is a PS that curiously started in 2011 (we do not know where it has gone before 2011) and that it came here, from the top of that rostrum, through the words of Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, from the high authority of whom the country failed but which has nothing to do with it (although I see there sitting in the benches several people who were in the government who brought Portugal to bankruptcy and who failed the Country), came to give a lesson of authority on how this government should proceed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And, not content with that, he also gave some wise lessons on how to grow economically, forgetting that during the years that led to this and that led to the huge recession that we had, many of you were already giving advice in these benches. Four years back, they have not stopped to think that, perhaps, some thing will be wrong in your theories because, if it worked, Portugal would be today the most prosperous country in Europe and unfortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u41	They don't have the ability to do better. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u42	Come on, it's no longer because of the forecasts of the Water Edge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u43	As for this recent PS that fell here, coming from a spaceship in 2011 and unknown where it was before that date — which is still strange, because many of you are the same, aren't you? - We're talking. We are now going to the PS of my guilt and of the proposals, which seem to recognize that one country and its economic growth is not one day at a time. If the PS wants to collaborate on this new page that Portugal is living, I think it is welcome. I'm just sorry that the PS didn't have availability for early consensus. For example, even those consensuss that you have made and that can do a lot for investment and employment, such as the consensus for the review of IRC, the PS decided to tear them apart still the legislature was not finished. I am only sorry that you do not have the courage to maintain your consensus and your word. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u44	But it is still strange that a PS who says that he wants to have proposals for economic growth, and yet it is not capable, for example, of recognizing that we are not stagnation, we are growing. Of course we'd like it to be bigger. For example, the growth of the fourth quarter of last year was greater than the European Union average and we would like it to be even bigger, but it is difficult for us to go to a consensus when you are stubbornly saying that we are not growing, as they have continued for many months to say that we were in a recessive spiral, when it has never been verified. Of course, the PS is welcome when he says he wants to fight unemployment. We all want to, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, although they have proposals, it is difficult, when you refuse to acknowledge that the unemployment rate has come down and that, fortunately, there are fewer Portuguese unemployed and more and more Portuguese employees, compared to 2003. Finally, as regards exports, I would like to say the following: Portugal has an external deficit problem that is not a problem of the PS governments, nor is it a problem of governments whether or not they are parties, it is a problem of the country because it has been a problem of decades. And the problems of decades ago, contrary to what is sometimes politically correct, are not solved in a year, in two, or in three. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have always said that "Ah, exports have been the best year ever, but exports always grow, this is not important at all", and that "Ah, but you forget that imports are growing", I would like to remind you that after a recession and a contraction like that which we have had bad outside that, now that we are in an economic growth period, imports will not grow again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u45	But they forget to add one thing: despite this evolution, the trade balance is stable and this has not been true for decades, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is still stable and that, yes, demonstrates a change that is structural in the Portuguese economy and that I believe that all of us, of course — you too, if you are interested in what is good for Portugal, rather than what is good for you electorally — we hope that it will remain. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u46	I now give the floor by the PCP to Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the government and the majority are celebrating, a growth that we have called for by authentically crawling in an economy close to stagnation, has the numbers in sight and we are not happy to be seeing the concrete reality of the numbers and what they mean to the country. According to INE, the slowdown in the last quarter of 2014 was due to a further slowdown in domestic demand and, in particular, in private consumption, such an engine that Mr. Minister discovered more recently—and he discovered more recently when he had forgotten before. And this growth of 0, 9 % in 2014 is not only insufficient to compensate for the huge breakdown in GDP since the signing of the PS, PSD and CDS aggression pact as it does not even compensate for the 1, 4 % fall in GDP in 2013. And even more serious when it is seen that GDP fell in accumulated terms 6 %, 6 %, from 2009 to 2014. In other words, even for three years we would be in a position, with this creation of wealth, to compensate for the destruction of the creation of wealth that has been done since you took possession. Therefore, this worrying development of GDP, public indebtedness and private indebtedness, with increasingly unsustainable proportions, the worsening of the balance balance of goods, which confirms the slowdown in the pace of exports, and the growth of imports at a rate that is almost double in value, all this, with the world economy under worse conditions than in 2008 and the euro area economy entering a new danger zone in the current dynamics of debt/deflation, are elements that cannot fail to worry workers, patriots and democrats about the future of our country. In fact, the six-monthly survey of business investment — and we have spoken here in investment — has recently been unveiled by the government's propaganda. Thus, explain better there, Minister, where these numbers come from, because, at best, private investment will have stagnated in 2014 and, as public investment fell again in that year, then the total investment will have fallen again in 2014. And this after 2011, in 2012 and 2013 the investment fell 39 %. And again, the main limiting factor identified by entrepreneurs is the deterioration of sales prospects, once again, is the limitation of demand and, again, is the loss and lack of purchasing power of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u49	We welcome the fact that there has been... in addition, although we would like there to be, no, the country urgently needs sustained economic growth, based on purchasing power and combating unemployment, but also an effective growth and economic development policy for the country. But when the Minister of Economy responds as he responded 15 days ago to the micro and small entrepreneurs and their problems, inviting them to convert their debts into capital, i.e. by handing their companies' management over the control of financial groups, we reaffirm that the power of the bank and bankers is not the solution, the problem is our economy. Therefore, what is needed is that there are actually funding and facilities, but only for the economic and financial groups. Are interest rates still low, new loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises still very low and falling, but for large companies there is funding, is it not, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u50	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u51	That is why the question remains and is asked: how does you explain that, since the interest rates are historically low, there is no investment? Why are investors not confident in practice? Why don't you invest? Why do they not have the prospect of investing more, rather, in 2015? Why is the access of SMEs to banking credit so difficult? Mr Minister, we speak clearly and you know they don't count on us for right-wing policies. You know very well, you always know! What the country needs is a patriotic and leftist policy! It is that there are differences between left-wing policies and right-wing policies, there are differences, yes! And they are still alive in our memory those such consensuss that were at the origin of the stability and growth programs and the pacts that were signed between the PSD, PS and CDS. That is why it is with concern that we have heard again references that have already come from the past but that continue to leave the left-wing policies 'hanging on the rope of clothing'. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, we are going for four years of governance and the only thing we can see Mr Minister come here to do is to order invoices from the PS. Who knows in hopes of receiving an imported car from the Ministry of Finance! Open... And not only asking for invoices from the PS but also making announcements of economic recovery — that is the only thing that we see Mr. Minister do. In 2013 Mr. Minister said there were signs of an economic turn. After all, she didn't come in 2013. But in 2014 we also heard you announce it here. And he spoke in 2013 of an economic miracle that was underway in Portugal. But we have to ask: if there has been, in fact, an economic shift in Portugal, if there is a new cycle of growth and investment in Portugal, as it says, how does it explain that the INE investment survey, which is probably the statistical indicator that goes to the source and asks businessmen, in Portugal, to make a downward review of investment intentions in 2014, i.e. to review what had been pointed out in 2013, and to make a review for negative values, in 2015, i.e. entrepreneurs plan to invest less in 2015, because of the prospects of sales that do not exist in the country? Moreover, the variation in business investment in exporting companies, according to the investment survey, is from 5, 1, to 2015. How does Mr Minister support an economic shift with the fact that entrepreneurs say they will invest even less in the coming year, including, or in particular, in the exporting industries? How does Mr. Minister support a well-consolidated shift at economic level and economic indicators, especially in 2014 ( and I do not want to escape the 2014 data ), when we then verify in the charts of this investigation, in relation to all economic indicators, that instead of an upward curve, we have indices with this aspect: the economic activity indicator is far, far, far from having an upward curve, I would say until it translates a phenomenon of some disappointment; the industry volume indicator ( 2013 - 2014 ) is far from translating an economic shift; the turnover index ( 2014 ) is far from reflecting an economic shift, as the curve is always descending ( regarding 2014, but based on 2013, which has already been a bad year ) ; the industry production index is also always declining ( 2014 ) ; the turnover index in services is also declining. These are the turnover indexes of business and industrial production that the INE presents in the conjuncural indicators in December 2014. How does Mr Minister support an economic shift with indexes with this aspect, with curves coming down? There is no growing trend, no consolidated trend. It is therefore legitimate to ask, Mr Minister, what a turning point this is and where it is based. It is that we look at the indicators and find no evidence of the economic turn here. There's no evidence! PSD and CDS strongly insist on talking about the lost decade, the 2000s. True, the 2000s were a lost decade. The problem is, on average, that for this decade even at the investment levels of the lost decade, there are 12 billion euros in investment—on average! So it's not worth talking about the lost decade, because this decade is going to be much worse than the lost decade. With everything we're recovering, whoever gave us the lost decade! And that's how we meet right now. Mr Minister, in view of this, you have to tell us what you want to do to change the situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u54	It's leaving! The best thing is to leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u55	...what economic policy it has. It is then that we opened the newspapers and what we find of investment, in Portugal, are the Chinese who come to buy EDP, Fidelity, the Holy Spirit Health, the REN, the BESI, and, in real estate investment, a company that was formerly an investor of the BES and that bought the Freeport. Sale of assets is not equivalent to investment, but this is what we see today when we open any newspaper: plus 700 billion euros of real estate investment in Portugal. These are sales of assets, it is not investment in productive capacity and job creation! So, Minister, in view of this data, on what is he based to speak in an economic turn? How do you explain the INE data? How does the various indicators of services and industry explain? And how does it explain this purchase of assets in bulk? Is this an investment or not? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u56	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment anemia, economic stagnation and social crisis is the theme of today's debate, but we could be talking about the title of a film. Unfortunately, it's not. Unfortunately, it's not about a film, and much less about a fiction film. Unfortunately, it's the portrait of the country. Unfortunately, it is the drama experienced in the country and in our economy. It is the drama experienced by the Portuguese, who don't even need to leave home to see it. They don't need to go out on the street, not even go to a cinema near you, because the generality of the families is feeling in the skin the drama that this government has sown. The drama of unemployment; the drama of not being able to buy drugs because money is not enough for everything; the drama of hospital emergencies; the drama and nightmare of reaching the end of the month and the income available does not reach family commitments; the drama of poverty and the drama of hunger, which begin to gain truly worrying dimensions. Unfortunately, we're not talking about a movie. Unfortunately, we are talking about our country and the results of this government's options. Yes, because when we talk about social and economic policy, about the worsening income of families, unemployment figures or the size of poverty, we are after all talking about the result of government policies, austerity policies, which are putting the Portuguese « bread and water» and which are not solving any of our problems. They are not solving the problem of our economy, they are not solving the problem of public debt and they are not solving the problem of unemployment. And what we think is fundamental is to realize that both economic growth and job creation depend on investment. It happens that, despite our country's delay in dealing with the other countries of the European Union, Portugal has experienced a fall in public investment far greater than that which occurred in the countries of the European Union. Public investment in Portugal, measured as a percentage of GDP, was always higher than the average of the countries of the European Union, which was also understandable in view of the need to recover our delay vis-à-vis the other countries of the European Union. But with austerity policies and, above all, with this government, the situation has reversed in a dramatic way and public investment has experienced a reduction of more than 50 %, while in the countries of the European Union the reduction was only 18 %, 5 %. Of course, the government will tell us that there is no money for the investment, because the little money there is to pay the debt interest. And that is why the renegotiation of debt seems to be the key to giving us some time off and we can channel resources for our economy. But the government keeps saying no. The government continues to believe that we can pay the debt without producing it. Now paying a debt without production would indeed be an absolutely remarkable fact. On the other hand, Mr Minister, small and medium-sized enterprises are living very difficult times today. And one of the problems they face has to do with the difficulties in accessing credit. Mr Minister, do you not think it would be wise and appropriate to oblige the bank — at least the bank that received State aid — to set quantitative credit support targets for small and medium-sized enterprises? Do you not think that this could help to boost our economy? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u58	The Minister for Economic Affairs was appointed to speak. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u59	Madam President, to celebrate is what the opposition Members, particularly Mr Pedro Nuno Santos of the Socialist Party, and Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party, say I did. I do not honestly believe that there is any reason for festive celebrations because of the behaviour of our economy. Celebrating, celebrating, celebrating was a motto, but it was from the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u61	... of the Socialist Government of Eng. José Socrates, who, even while negotiating PEC 1, PEC 2, PEC 3 and PEC 4,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u62	We'll be there in 77! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u63	... it is good to remember, she insisted on celebrating the announcement of public works, such as, for example, the third crossing of the Tejo and the TGV that would connect the Poceirão to the Port. On the other hand, these celebrations ended up spending — you know how! — EUR 150 million in studies, because everything justified the desire to celebrate the socialist governments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u64	What we understand is that truly enterprising is this socialist speech that claims of modest, moderate growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u65	It was lower than in 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u66	The word « celebration » was not heard only once in my speech — I spoke in moderate growth of 0, 9. It is worth remembering here when investment meant 28 % or 25 % of GDP: a decade mostly — I would say 80% of the time — governed by the Socialist Party, in which our average growth, much celebrated by the governments of that time, was 0, 4 % per year. Or have the Members of the Socialist Party already forgotten that, during the 2000 to 2010 decade, Portugal was only the third country in the world with the least economic growth, only surpassed by Zimbabwe and Italy? Oh, my God! This was the consequence of the heroic times of investment, of financing, which then resulted, not in growth, but in deficit and debt, which reduced the socialist bankruptcy. Another interesting thing is this disappointment that the Socialist Party has with the evolution of exports, the disappointment that the Socialist Party has with the behavior of private companies, because it is the private companies that export, it is the entrepreneurs, it is the managers, it is not the government that exports. When exports in 2008 reached EUR 57 billion, i.e. 30 % of GDP, it was magnificent. But in 2014, as they only exceeded EUR 70 billion and exceeded 40% of GDP, we lived a horrible year! Open... This is not to mention the truly enterprising concern that the Socialist Party has with our external accounts. I would like to recall that during the years of Eng.o José Socrates’ governance — you remember, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! Some of you were part of that government; everyone supported it and maintained that support — our external deficit was about 1% of GDP. At the time it was not a problem to have an external deficit of EUR 15 billion each year. Now it is a huge problem we only had in 2014 an external surplus of 2400 million euros! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] No one understands the head of the Socialist Party! I'm not going to do psychology, but I really want to invite you...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u67	That's psychoanalysis!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u68	There's no harm in doing psychoanalysis. Maybe, to you, it didn't hurt him! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u69	As I said, I find this patriotic consensus brought here by the Socialist Party extraordinary. They note: the Socialist Party denounced one of the main instruments that we had to capture investment and that worked as an automatic mechanism for the capitalisation of companies, with private means, because it was the profits of companies that, when they were less taxed, and not being distributed into dividends, would allow them to capitalize more. in the same way — it is also envisaged in the reform of the IRC and, indeed, this point was supported by the Socialist Party — with this reform, a path which I hope will not be stopped, to balance the financing conditions between debt and own capital. They will be identical in 2017, as a result of the reform process that we started in 2014. But they ask us for a patriotic consensus to take over the money of Mr.Contributent Manuel or Mrs. Contributent Maria and, through the Public Administration, of public institutions, to decide which companies — if, b, c or d — should be capitalised, to propose the capitalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, not by the possible transformation of debt obligations into capital, but through public funds, I recognize that it can be a socialist way, but it is certainly not the way we stand for!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u70	Public money for banks only, isn't it, Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u71	Finally, I wanted to say to Mr Bruno Dias that the issue of the capitalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises is of great concern to us, in addition to the general financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Financing through credit improved slightly until August last year for marketable sectors, but there are no signs that it has not been harmed, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, after what happened in Banco Espírito Santo. This is a matter of concern to us. There is indeed an evolution in interest rates, but we recognize that, for a small company or for a company with a more aggressive risk profile, the differential of interest rates offered in Portugal, compared with other European countries, particularly the countries of central Europe, is still substantial, and it is not possible to talk about healthy competition in the European Union when equal companies, with equal balances, are financed with interest rates ranging from 1 to 2 depending on the origin of business capital. For this reason, significant progress has been made in 2014, but must be continued in 2015, particularly through the implementation of the financial and banking union. With regard to capital instruments, we do not propose that the debt of banks be converted into capital. What we have created is instruments so that this bank debt can move faster to other private investors because we understand that it is not a good solution for a viable small company, for a viable medium-sized company, also for a viable large company, which is over-indebted, maintaining these debt levels without having resources to invest and grow. Incentives should be made to transfer that debt to capital, particularly if it is held by private persons. It was in this sense that we said it is preferable to own 50 % or 60 % of a project that has possibilities and resources to grow than to be the only shareholder, 100 %, of a project that has no capital to grow. I am now responding to Mrs Mariana Mortágua. I respect the graphics you presented, I didn't check them, but they can't mislead reality. The reality is not brilliant, but the year 2014 was a year of economic turn. It proves the evolution of employment, the reduction of unemployment, the evolution of GDP, which grew 0, 9 % — I have been and reread the statement of opposition when we presented the State Budget for 2015 and there was not a single member of the opposition who believed that the Portuguese economy could grow in 2014 — and they also prove the investment numbers that we have available. After a forecast ( and I am not especially gifted to deal with forecasts, I prefer to deal with reality) growth of 0, 8 % in 2014, the indicators we have are that the investment will have recovered about 6 % in 2014, with a growth of 11 % in machines and equipment and 22 % in transport equipment. She tells the honourable Member that the investigations carried out by the entrepreneurs at the moment point to a negative sign. I can't explain why. In fact, maybe I can. 2015 is the year of elections and perhaps investors and entrepreneurs have some fear that the Socialist Party will return to power! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u72	As I announced, this frame of debate consists of two rounds. We just finished the first one. The second one has shorter periods. As everyone went far beyond regulating time in the first round, he was now asking them to respect the times more. The order of intervention is the same as in the previous round. You have the floor for the PSD, Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u73	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In the summary of this debate, we conclude that the PS ultimately confuses the anemia of sustained growth investment, which is not made at the expense of the Portuguese stock exchange. It confuses anemia of the investment with respect and weighting of the current government not to use the money of all of us in pharaonic works and unmeasured bleeding, as has been done in the past. The PS also confuses in this debate what is stagnation of the economy with a remarkable result, which is a growth of our economy above average, but confuses because this growth is done with work, with the effort of the Portuguese, but without airports without planes, without the roads without cars and without the nefares PPP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u74	The PS comes to this debate discussing the social crisis, but does not recognize or assume that it is responsible for the greatest crisis ever experienced in Portugal. Mr Minister today, we should even thank the PS for bringing this issue here to debate for two fundamental reasons. The first is for the country to know and recognize that we are growing above the European average, something that the previous government has never been able to do with so much money it had to use. The second is because it is another time to realize that there is a great anemia in the PS with regard to proposals and ideas for the country. But as an evil never comes alone, this anemia is also accompanied by amnesia, because the PS has forgotten what it has done from the past, the wrong way it has gone and that has brought us to bankruptcy today. But it has forgotten, essentially, that the work and obligation of all politicians is to leave Portugal with a better future, something that has not been able to do and that this government has been doing since 2011. The PS has also forgotten that Portugal is growing, that Portugal has a new life, that Portugal has a new direction. The PS also forgets, or does not want to remember, that, for the first time in 40 years, there is a surplus on the commercial balance. The PS forgets, or does not want to remember, that exports grow in sight and that there is already a coverage rate of more than 100 %. The PS forgets, or does not want to see, that more companies are already being created today than in 2008. The PS forgets that external investment is increasing and that between 2013 and 2014 we had EUR 1000 million invested by foreign companies that brought a lot of jobs to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u75	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u76	I will finish, Madam President. The PS forgets, above all, that this government gave opportunities to the Portuguese that it had not previously given: it increased minimum pensions, increased the minimum wage. The PS does not want to see that today we have a more credible, more capable country and, above all, that can give the Portuguese a better future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u77	The next intervention is the PS. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u78	Madam President, Minister for Economic Affairs, I will be very frank. The Minister for Economic Affairs is not merely a bad minister, he is, unfortunately, not a serious minister, because the analyses he has made here are absolutely unacceptable. The opposition confronts Mr. Minister of Economy with INE data and Mr. Minister — I will even quote him because he is almost loaded — says: « I respect the graphics, but the graphics cannot mislead the reality». Mr. Minister, think of 2 seconds in that sentence and you will quickly realize the nonsense that this means! They are Portuguese entrepreneurs, not the Socialist Party, who deny all their claims. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs came here to say that we have growth with a sustainable profile. It's false, Minister. For example, for 2010, the year of all deficits, the year before external aid. Do you know how far we've grown, Minister? We have grown 1.9% of GDP, almost twice as much as we have now. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And do you know what the contribution of net external demand was, the difference between exports and imports? In 2010 it was -0.2 and in 2014 it was close to 1 %. That is, the only reason why today we do not have an external deficit equal to 2010 is because we destroyed 350 000 jobs, because we destroyed domestic demand. For every euro of GDP that the Portuguese economy can now grow, the external imbalance will be greater, the net external demand will be more negative, Mr Minister. This is a fact that Mr. Minister cannot ignore. And this has only one meaning: the day in which, with this trend, the government will succeed—it will not succeed! — regaining employment and domestic demand, I assure you that we would have a higher external deficit than we had in 2010. This is not an opinion, that is mathematics, arising from known data, data which Mr. Minister ignores. The Minister said they grow more than in the lost decade, but this is false, unless he does not want to be serious, because between 2000 and 2007, the Portuguese economy grew 1.5% on average. Only the years of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 will be included is that it increases the value that Mr. Minister said. But if you want to include these years, then let's look at 2010. And answer the following: how is it possible to grow more with a deterioration—not the level of the external balance, is it deterioration — greater than that of 2010? What structural transformation is this? You're not one, Minister of Economics! The Portuguese entrepreneurs — a stock exchange of more than 3000 entrepreneurs — have been polled for years by the INE for the main investment report in Portugal... Excuse me, Minister, it is not acceptable to devalue and say that it respects, but does not mislead reality. The reality is that entrepreneurs tell you, that it is very simple: the investment, in 2014 already of itself anemic, was reviewed down and that of 2015 already of itself anemic, was also reviewed down and is negative. This is not just a matter of matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u79	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u80	I will finish, Madam President. The full evidence that there is no structural transformation and that there is no investment that increases the country's productive capacity is in the fact that they themselves say so in this INE survey. I quote what they say: 'Investment is due only to the attempt to replace productive capacity'. In other words, Portuguese entrepreneurs are trying to survive this government, they are not expanding, they are not growing, they are not developing, Mr Minister of Economy! at the end of these four years, in addition to the social crisis that has provoked and that continues to provoke, because the social courts continue, the only thing Mr. Minister managed to do was to cause a recession. And when the government was stuck in austerity, they left the recession but they didn't transform anything. Why? A relief from the recession is good, but it's not enough. To that end, we need elections, we need a new government, we need a new policy, which this government cannot give. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u81	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u82	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate has at least the usefulness of giving us insights into the prospects of the Socialist Party. But among them there is a common point: the Government of the Socialist Party failed to govern — EUR 16 billion in six years, the unemployment rate began at 7, 2 % and ended at 12 % and never had a year of recovery, despite the posters promising 150 000 jobs. They failed in the predictions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u84	Mr Galamba said we were going to have a recessive spiral. And it was also said that we would have a second rescue, that external signs of growth were a "dissatisfying contentment", that those who fail in governance fail in predictions — "only a miracle will make you succeed in solutions". In fact, it's curious to realize that when you talk about seriousness and you make an intervention turned to the elections and little to the reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u85	Mr. Deputy will invent it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u86	I'm not making anything up. But I would like to say that in the fourth quarter of 2013, according to INEM data, the confidence of companies improved: de-4, 1 went to 0, 9.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u87	INEM data or INE data? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u88	The economic sentiment indicator also improved systematically. It says the seriousness that we have oscillations, but the truth is that the line is improving. No one said all the country's problems were solved. I am not euphoric, I am grateful for the efforts the Portuguese have made, I am grateful for the efforts made by some social partners and I am grateful for the Government's efforts to solve problems left by others. Mrs. Members, the investment indicator has also improved, with oscillations, it is true. Maybe it's whatever we need, but it's improved. These data are from the National Institute of Statistics. The industrial production index also has, in accumulated terms, a positive overall value. [[PS protests.]] No one said it was okay. What we are saying is that the Socialist Party and the opposition have lost opportunities, at some point, to do this debate. But all the indicators — choose those who choose — have consistently improved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u89	How about we go back to reality?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u90	In fact, you could talk about news today that realizes that the economy recovered in January for the second executive month. I could say, for example, that in 2014 there were more companies, in Portugal, to be born than to close—it is a fact that Mr. João Galamba knows. I could do that demagogy, but I won't. All this is positive, it's good, but we want more. He could also say that between 1999 and 2014 the Portuguese economy recorded only positive quarterly external balances in 2012. Can you lie?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u91	And why will it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u92	Portugal recorded the highest external surplus in 15 years— 3, 8! Mr. João Galamba, I would say that it is the merit of companies, the merit of workers, the merit of reforms. And there was no contribution from the Socialist Party to this effort! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u93	Your time is over, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u94	I will finish, Madam President. Mr. João Galamba, I made this intervention by running away from giving you tourism data. But I can ask for a document to be distributed and then I would like to see if you can deny that we are facing the best years of tourism, with an increase in dorms from RevPar (income per available room) and of the expenditure for each tourist in all regions of the country. He will ask: « Whose fault is it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I reply once again, saying that it is from companies, workers, but also from the government, that it has managed to be a reliable partner of the sector and not create fees and taxes that make the sector difficult, the entrepreneurs and the workers difficult. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u95	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs said that the State is presenting itself as a partner of the private sector and spoke of the concerns it has about financing and investment, but the government's political options show that it is a partner, yes, but of the large economic and financial groups. He is not a partner of the micro and small entrepreneurs and much less of the workers, Minister. And see that this happens from fiscal policy to Community funds, through public investment. Mr. Minister speaks of the contributor « Manuel » or the contributor « Maria », but he is passing by the blessings that are being given to the contributor « Américo » or to the contributor « Belmiro » and, moreover, to those who have no name or face and return to the offshore world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u98	Mr Minister, there is a specific question that I wanted to leave and which has to do with the overall value of public investment and where it will be realized. It is that what most marked your governance and what was most remarkable in your options, in this mandate, was the cancellation of investments. Question : What are the main public investment projects for this year? What is the enunciation of works and projects and the appropriation for 2015? We don't talk about first stones, neither plants, nor Power Point, we talk about predictions, we talk about investment for 2015. What's going to be paid? Thank you for giving us this explanation, Minister. The government's policy has been to completely ignore the factors that could provide a favourable opportunity for a strategy of recovery and economic dynamisation. We have a lower price for oil and international quotations, a lower interest rate, the depreciation of the euro, and the government is moving next to this reality. And, when it comes to investment and Community funds which could provide and launch for this Community framework, there is an objective issue that has to do with financing micro and small businesses. While not forgetting the unprecedented negotiating power that the financial groups, in particular the banks, will have, as a gateway to the Portuguese real economy, access to Community funds. This so famous and celebrated promotion bank, which is no bank, is a financial institution, will have as front office, as you like to say, the commercial bank, the financial groups that serve as the official intermediary of the Portuguese Government and the European Union for the application of Community funds for companies. We are talking about a highly unfavourable condition for the real economy and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in this context of indebtedness which Mr Minister has acknowledged.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u100	Mr Minister, it is an even more worrying situation, which shows that the beautiful words you say are contradicted and denied by your own practice. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that sometimes there are Freudian lapses that say more than 1000 words. The country's economic health has been discussed and some indicators have been mentioned and Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS, in his speech, spoke of INEM data... It is appropriate to say that, from the point of view of the emergency in which we are placed, the Portuguese economy is even in intensive care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Minister of Economics, I will not show the graphics again, they are all in the table of the INE. I thought that showing them would be able to create some difficulties from the point of view of reading, but I would like to make them available. Since you talked about employment, there is a question that the Left Block has been asking for a long time ago, but for which you never got any answer: how many of the alleged new jobs are internships or employment-inclusion contracts? We have already asked for an audit — and those who should not be afraid — but have been plunged by the benches of the majority. It would be an important fact for us to measure the quality of jobs created and the external economy or investment that produces jobs. I must also say that it is regrettable that Mr Minister uses Portuguese entrepreneurs to demagogy about government policy, that he uses Portuguese entrepreneurs to make political attacks, but that he does not take seriously what they say in the statistical inquiry. It's really sad! What this survey says is that investment prospects are negative and, as has been said, they aim only to recover productive capacity, which comes after the 2000s and which, contrary to what I said recently, was not a decade of investment breakdown. Portugal was the only country in the 2000s to have a negative investment growth rate in Europe, and it was the only one in Europe who did not have investment growth. As we have this good start, we are now going to drop it even more and get EUR 12 billion below, thinking that this policy can lead to some kind of economic recovery. We would really like to hear a serious opinion on the prospects of Portuguese entrepreneurs as well as on employment and investment. Another issue that seems regrettable to me is that external debt is mixed with commercial balances and its origin. It is that the problem of external debt remains and Portugal is the country with the highest external indebtedness of the euro area, both private and public. He's bigger than the Greek! It's a problem that's going to pursue us for decades. It is no use trying to say that our external debt problems are solved, because they are not solved. We have the biggest external debts in Europe and this continues to affect investment and growth. External debt is the biggest in Europe! As regards the trade balance, we can also point out — and we have already had this discussion — that most of Europe's countries have had a positive trade balance due to a reduction in imports and an increase in exports. I'm going to show a graph that I think is quite elucidative — showing graphics is a good form of debate. As you can see, the blue line corresponds to exports and the red line to imports. What's going on? Exports decreased by 2012, but imports decreased much more. After that, exports and imports grew, but the latter much less. This has led us to have a positive business balance, as has also happened in many European countries. No one denies that exports have actually grown in 2012 and 2013. But what happened at the end of 2013? The growth of imports exceeded the growth of exports, that is, it was here that the two curves crossed, which again caused a structural problem in the economy. It is therefore when the two curves cross that we have a problem — the import curve has surpassed the export curve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u103	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u104	I will finish, Madam President. Perhaps so, the contribution of external demand to GDP, which was positive throughout 2011 and 2012, was negative in 2014. Therefore, when it is said ‘the effect of imports is withdrawn, exports do not even reach to make GDP grow’ here is: 2014 negative contribution of external demand to GDP. So what we have is a government policy based on...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u105	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u106	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that we have a government policy based on exports and very fragile investment. What is the government's policy? That's what we still don't understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u107	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs referred to the financing and access to credit by businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a very important problem. That is why, recently, we would suggest that the government impose on the bank the obligation to set targets for access by small and medium-sized enterprises to credit. But the problems that are making it difficult for companies not only to finance and access to credit, because there is no financing, there is no access to credit, and there are no tax incentives that can benefit businesses unless they have those who buy them the products and the goods they produce.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u109	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u110	If there's no search, nothing done! And, in order to be sought—it has already been seen— people need to have purchasing power to enable them to purchase these products. It happens that the Government insists on reducing the available income of families, as has happened, in fact, in this 2015 State budget, as is still happening, with the government's refusal not to update the national minimum wage, as it was expected—I am not talking about small increases; I am talking about updates, because that was the commitment. That is to say no more of the wage cuts and also of the brutal tax burden imposed by this government on those who work. But we can talk about the increase in VAT of restoration, because it is about this, in fact, that there is a question I am asking. Mr Minister, the increase in VAT in restoration was, in my view, one of the most incomprehensible, even if not the most disparate measure of this government, from the point of view of our economy. No one understands the reasons why the government insisted on raising and maintaining the rate of VAT on restoration at 23 %. The results of this increase in VAT in restoration are disastrous, not only because Portuguese people have far fewer available incomes today, but also because this government's theamos continues to push more and more companies from restoration to bankruptcy, and therefore to destroy thousands and thousands of jobs, thus contributing to increasing unemployment and increasing the number of people without work. In very strict terms, what the Government has achieved, with the increase in the rate of VAT in the restoration, from 13 % to 23 %, was only to increase bankruptcy and unemployment in the sector. Mr Minister, at the end of this time, with the restorative VAT at 23 %, what balance does this measure make of the Government? Do you think this measure remains part of the solution or, on the contrary, continues to contribute to further exacerbate the problems of our economy? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u111	Very well asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u112	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will try to be as objective in my responses as possible, starting by responding to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who asked me how many jobs, of the 70,000 liquids, on average, created in 2014, correspond to permanent jobs or jobs that are not mere short-term stages. In relation to employment, on average 70,000 net jobs were increased in 2014, while permanent contracts increased 119 000! I hope that this answer, which is objective... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Long-term jobs decreased by 49 000, jobs with undetermined contracts increased by 119 000. Perhaps this has something to do with some of the work changes that have been made by the government with the support of the parties of the majority and which so criticized were by the Left Block. [[BE's protests.]] With this economic shift, this model is allowing the creation of jobs with permanent contracts, precisely because entrepreneurs today have greater confidence in labour rules, to the point of creating jobs that are not future contracts, as happened in the past, and are betting on permanent contracts. I must tell you that of these 70 000, an important part, 24 000, were created in industry, and a substantial part was created in services, particularly in hotels and restaurants. I am also responding to a question and a challenge which has been left here, and which I understand, by José Luís Ferreira, I will not make any deviations on the VAT of the restoration. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you know my opinion on this matter. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But what I can tell you is that in recent years, particularly in 2014, one of the most dynamic sectors to create jobs—it certainly has a lot to do with tourism—is the area of restoration, particularly in the most targeted centres for tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u114	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u115	There is a positive net creation and not a job destruction, because essentially these sectors depend heavily on economic activity and, in particular, on the development of tourism, which, as you know, has had exceptional developments. I also wanted to say to Mrs Mariana Mortágua — and I am not going to criticize her because I am not sitting right now —... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u116	That's what's missing! Open... [[He's standing too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u117	I'm not sitting either, I'm standing to be able to answer Mrs. Deputy. [[Laughing.]] But I also wanted to tell you that the trade balance in 2008 / 2009 was negative at EUR 14 billion and was composed, regardless of the graphics that Mrs Deputy presented and that you cannot see here, at the government bench... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u118	Notice: the value of exports was EUR 57 billion, that of imports was about EUR 70 billion; we had a trade deficit of EUR 14, 15, 16, 000 million in those years. Imports now remain in EUR 70 billion; exports have grown to more than EUR 70 billion. But Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Mortágua, manages the miracle — it is indeed a miracle, yes, economic — to present a chart that gives imports down and exports down even more! That's what I realized from your graphics. Mr Deputies, if your graphics had any adherence to reality, at least in this case — I had no time to check with the others — what they showed was: a stagnation of imports in the last four years, at times when they came down and then went up, and an export growth of almost 30 %. That is what your chart should show the Portuguese and not those curves covered by pessimism, which do not have, in this particular case — I can assure you, because I have the numbers in front of me here — nothing to do with reality! I would also like to tell you that, as you know, the Government has betted in particular at this second stage of the parliamentary cycle, an economic strategy based on three engines: the motor of private consumption, which is an important engine and which, fortunately, began to evolve well in 2013 in the second half of the year ; in 2014, a lot of consequences—and this is not to be denied, because INE is given — that we have reached a level of confidence in consumers that is at its best since May 2002 ; and an indicator of confidence of economic agents, which has been positive since June 2014 and which is at its peaks, in the last four months, since May 2008. Trust is a fundamental element of the functioning of any economy! It is this confidence that we have sought to feed, being side by side with companies, supporting companies, being partners with companies. And if I may, I believe that the opposition has not helped, with these fatalistic speeches, which, above all, are distorted with regard to reality. to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP, I would like to say that with regard to IFDR ( Financial Institute for Regional Development ), although he speaks on this issue, because in fact that financial institution started operationally at the beginning of January 2015. It was at this time that an executive committee was appointed, which is in full dedication to the institution, and also a more general, non-executive board of directors, which is led by Prof. Alberto de Castro, an unsuspecting personality of having any kind of political relationship with the parties that make up this government. It was professionalism and independence that underpinned the choices that are currently before this institution, which has already collaborated with the Government in training and launching a new line of SMEs Growth — New EUR 1500 million Credit Line, which will be available from March for small and medium-sized enterprises, with interest rates at least one point below the previous lineSME Growth. This is already the work that the Government has done with IFDR and is now taking the necessary steps to launch the EUR 1500 million tender, the use of European funds for corporate debt instruments and capital to companies — probably EUR 750 million debt, EUR 750 million capital — which will be worked not only with the commercial bank but also with eminently private venture capital. Finally, one word, I think briefly, to give Mr. João Galamba a note that I am not, frankly, interested in taking part in debates that lay their foundation in the political chacota. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u119	It does not offend me who you want, and I am not going to argue with the honourable Member if I am more serious than the honourable Member. For me, Mr. Deputies, to the contrary, he is a serious person, and I respect him for that. I am very sorry that you systematically show that you do not respect your political opponents. Luckily, the Portuguese know me! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u120	Mr João Oliveira asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u121	Madam President, it is to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u122	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u123	Madam President, this is a question which the CFP has addressed to the Government and which comes to the meeting of a reference which Mr Minister here has made. Mr. Minister spoke about the employability rate of professional internships. We have already had the opportunity to question the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security and Mr. Prime Minister himself and to this day we continue to have the elements which confirm this statement that the Government makes. Since the Minister for Economic Affairs referred to this, he asked that it be distributed—in particular, to the Government's bench, but obviously also to the other benches—the question we have addressed to the Government, because it may be that the Minister for Economics, at the time that he still has in this debate, can explain what his Government colleague, Minister Pedro Mota Soares, and the Prime Minister himself did not wish to clarify. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u124	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. As you all know, the frame of this debate involves a formal closing phase, in which the representative of the Government will first use the floor and, finally, a Member of the Parliamentary Group who called for this debate, in this case the PS. I shall therefore once again give the floor to Mr Minister for Economic Affairs to intervene in the closure of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party called this debate to accuse the Government of not having done its job in building a growth agenda for the country. I believe, however, that this debate results in a thorough demonstration that the Socialist Party did not take advantage of the time when it is opposition to make a reflection, an introspection, about what its responsibilities were for the country in 2011 to know the state of economic anemia and of the inability to finance that led us to the request for financial assistance. The Socialist Party, in the interest of wanting to dispute elections, presents itself with a speech that does not innovate and that will seek its roots to the tradition of a recent past that so profound and so negative social marks left in Portugal and in Portuguese. What results from this debate is the idea that the Socialist Party decided to professionalize itself as opposition, instead of representing and presenting a credible alternative for the country and different from what we, Portuguese, know during the period 2005 to 2011. The Socialist Party prefers to attack the Government by revealing a frivolous lack of memory and relinquishing any responsibility over the sacrifices imposed on the country and on the Portuguese as a result of their political and financial irresponsibility. The Socialist Party's speech, in this pursuit of criticism, ends up causing enormous perplexity, because at the same time as it defends the economic goodness of the times we live in 2006, in 2007, when the external deficit was what it was, or in 2010 and until 2011, in what it competes with responsibilities, we heard here today a compliment of the economic growth that the country had in 2010, accuses the Government of not having transformed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u126	I just showed up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u127	The main criticism that the Socialist Party makes to the Government is that it has failed to make a transformation of our economic model, of the national economic model, while at the same time defending this model. But, after all, if we did not succeed in changing the structure of the Portuguese economy, the Socialist Party criticizes us for what? If it were true what you said, our economy would be with the same model you played and defended as a government. Fortunately this is not true, because there is a big difference between having an economy that exports 30 % of GDP and an economy that exports 40 % or 41 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u128	If GDP doesn't fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u129	GDP did not fall in nominal value. Exports, Mr. Member and parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, increased from EUR 57 billion to EUR 70 billion in 2014. Imports remained, but the trade deficit was fully corrected by the evolution of exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u130	Now you're correcting!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u131	And exports have jumped more than EUR 13 billion, compared to 2008, which was the best year of the Socialist Party — EUR 13 billion more than the best year of the Socialist Party — and yet you accuse us of this being a bad year! I do not take this accusation seriously, because it is an accusation to Portuguese companies and I believe that the merit of these exports is Portuguese companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is extraordinary how you accuse the Portuguese economy of being unable to export, when we exported more EUR 13 billion in 2014 than in the best year we had when the Socialist Party was in power! This transformation is ongoing and is a positive transformation, unlike other adjustment models that meant a product and wealth breakdown of 5 to 6 % — while in some countries it was 25% — less than what happened in Ireland.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u132	We're fine! It's an oasis! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u133	We are already on a recovery path and welcome the calls that the Socialist Party has left us for patriotic consensus and commitment. in this sense, I would like to close this debate with a constructive proposal for the Socialist Party to review its position on the capitalisation mechanism of the companies that constitute the reform of the IRC. It would be very important for the Socialist Party to give a signal of fiscal predictability to those who want to invest in Portugal. You have a lot to do with investigations, so you should read in the surveys, in particular of international investors, that fiscal predictability is a key element in making investment decisions, in particular productive investment. I propose that the Socialist Party also join the efforts we are making to create capitalisation instruments, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. Frankly, I don't think it's a great idea to use public funds, taxpayers' money, to capitalise on private companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u134	What about European money?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u135	I don't think that's a good model. We will use European money through IFDR, worth EUR 750 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u136	Again, no rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u137	They accept the idea that those who create wealth can stop most of this wealth and not have to pay so many taxes. This is a key element that helps business capitalisation, particularly when these profits are not distributed as dividends. I would ask them to cooperate with our efforts to continue the administrative simplification that has transformed Portugal today in the fifth country in the world where it is easier to create a new company. This journey started seven years ago and in this matter I will remind you that it began, perhaps with the Simplex, that we never blacked out, even when we were in the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u138	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u139	It is important to continue this effort to disburse and simplify the life of companies, and in this sense I appeal to the Socialist Party to concentrate proposals on this too, because they will surely be welcomed by the government and will be very useful for companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u140	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u141	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The first major conclusion of this debate, which has certainly been a useful debate, is that on the part of the PS there have been a set of concerns and a set of proposals and on the part of the Government has always appeared an unsustainable arrogance and a position of opposition, which is the only one to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another important conclusion to draw from this debate is that nothing has been said about the social crisis. However, it is undeniable and poverty indicators are there to show it. There have never been so many poor people in democracy in Portugal. Child poverty has gone a long way in the years of your government, increased unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, we had an emigration rate like there had not since the 1960s, especially at the level of the most qualified - which is a new phenomenon - the fiscal attack on the middle class was brutal, as was brutal what happened at the level of the IRS and its overtaxes, as are the chaotic moments that have existed in fundamental systems such as education, health, social security and justice. You have said nothing about the social crisis, because you have accepted that it exists and that it is very serious. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Portuguese economy, it should be noted that its results are indeed mediocre. In 2014, there was anemic growth—deceleration in the last quarter—and which was mainly due to domestic demand and especially to consumption and not to liquid exports, which were negative. This meant that it was precisely against government policy and the decisions of the Government's largest political opponent in the institutional and constitutional area, which was the Constitutional Court, that you were able to have this anemic growth in 2014. With regard to exports, there is no doubt that exports of services have improved significantly thanks to tourism. But the person responsible for tourism has the humility and the political seriousness to mention when it is not exactly the result of his work, or of this government, but it is the result of a work for the promotion of Portugal that comes from behind, of companies, fundamental authorities, such as Lisbon and Porto, which have managed to bring so many tourists to our country's benefit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as investment is concerned, Mrs. Government members, the anemia was proven and above all proved this weakness and this failure of the pseudo-expansionist austerity model. We could have a growth of 0, 9 % in 2014, but we should have results in the investment that showed that there was confidence, that there was willingness to invest, that there were strong investments in the exporting sector, that there was a strong foreign investment. But it was exactly the opposite that happened. Investment anemia, the investment crisis was never as big as the one reported by the entrepreneurs themselves in the survey that was done by INE — and not by INEM — in the last quarter of 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Government members have also been shown here that there must be growth, growth must be investment and investment funding is important, but it is a necessary condition that is not enough. It is sufficient to see that in terms of credit to companies, the results also of December 2014 show a fall in the credit granted to companies by the Portuguese banking system of 13 %, 4 % compared to that verified one year ago. Therefore, in spite of all the liquidity measures that the European Union has taken through the European Central Bank, of the hypotheses coming from the Juncker plan, of the operational programmes that still, many of them, are not even completed, when the previous Community framework has not yet been implemented, and despite the promises of the promotion bank, what is really necessary is that this funding capacity should be transposed into the real economy. We have put forward clear proposals, realistic proposals. You accuse us of having no proposals, but when we present them they do not discuss them, try to minimize them or try to go after the IRC, which is where the government broke the commitment, it was the PSD and it was the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like not to exceed as much of my time as was exceeded in the previous intervention, but I just want to tell you that, indeed, there is a need for confidence. Trust is the word of order and we think it is essential. Trust is needed in the future of Portugal as well as in new policies in Europe. Trust is needed in the existence of a new government. Unfortunately, we're gonna have to wait another eight months until that time comes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u142	Mrs. Members, the urgent debate required by the PS on anemia of investment, stagnation of the economy and social crisis is concluded. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government who have been present and those who are now taking a seat to intervene in the next debate. We will continue with the next item on the agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of Bill No. 278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector approved by Article 228. the Act No. 83 - C / 2013 of 31 December and Bill No. 779 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the Scheme establishing the Extraordinary Contribution to the Energy Sector ( CFP ). To present the bill, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law, which we are discussing today, of amendment to the Extraordinary Contribution on the Energy Sector, extends to the gas sector the cut in excessive incomes, already realized in the area of electricity. It is recalled that in 2013 and 2014 we approved two excessive income reduction packages of EUR 3400 million, which prevented the increase of tariffs by 12 % to 14 % and limited the annual increase by 1, 5 % to 2 % and thus ensured the reduction of tariff debt by EUR 6000 million by 2020 to a value of EUR 600 to EUR 1000 million. In addition, in 2014 and 2015, we applied an extraordinary contribution on the energy sector, focusing on electricity, gas and liquid fuels assets, charging EUR 150 million per year to energy companies without the possibility of impact on consumers. Two thirds of the revenue is for the 2014 and 2015 State Budget, calling on companies to make a more equitable budgetary adjustment effort and one third of the revenue allocated to the reduction of tariff debt in electricity. But, as we have always said, energy is not electricity and therefore in May 2014, in a post-trogic temporal and conceptual context, we have presented a third package of reforms and cuts in the area of energy, extended to the whole energy sector and not only electricity, and allocating the benefits of cuts not so much to the speedier elimination of tariff debt but rather to the reduction of prices to consumers. This third package has been implemented in a speedy and efficient manner, such as the previous two, despite the technical and legal complexity and the evident and predictable challenge of the affected. Firstly, the extension of the social tariff from 60 000 to 500 000 families, which see their tariff reduced by 34 % and not by 20 %, as it was. Secondly, since November 2014 the publication of reference prices for liquid fuels and for butane gas and bottle propane. Thirdly, the introduction of low cost fuels, as from April this year, is the result of a diploma presented by the Government and improved and unanimously approved by this Parliament. And finally, with the diploma we are discussing today, the extension of the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector to long-term natural gas supply contracts concluded between 1994 and 2002 with Nigeria and Algeria under the Take-or-pay regime. With this change to the extraordinary contribution we are in practice facing one of the most relevant imbalances in the National Natural Gas System and thus benefiting domestic and industrial consumers, especially when these imbalances have contributed to the higher value of gas consumers in Portugal than the European average. These imbalances are primarily due to the fact that consumers pay not only energy costs but also high-pressure infrastructures, pipelines, terminals and caves. For this reason, we have been limiting the company's unwarranted enlargement of the gas infrastructure and fighting for the strengthening of European interconnections so that in Portugal the gas transit for other European countries can make the infrastructure already built profitable. Secondly, the imbalances in the gas system result from the circumstance of the 2006 regulatory architecture to provide that the possible costs and losses of long-term supply contracts under take-or-pay regime would be shared with consumers but—as far as possible! — that any benefits resulting from the international sale of this product were fully captured by the contract operator in this case by Galp Gas Natural, previously Transgas, and not shared with consumers. The seriousness of this imbalance has been accentuated by the conditions of the domestic and international markets of natural gas. It is estimated that between 2008 and 2014 Galp and its international suppliers received benefits in the range of 600 to 800 million euros, resulting from the gas resale of the said take-or-pay supply contracts of the Portuguese system and that they were not shared with the National Natural Gas System and therefore with Portuguese consumers. The proposed extension of the extraordinary contribution to the take-or-pay contracts obviously does not affect the preterit gains associated with these contracts, it affects the equivalent economic value of these contracts taken-or-pay, which are treated as taxable assets, such as other liquid electricity, gas and fuel assets that have already incorporated the scope of the extraordinary contribution since 2014. The proposal we bring here will generate a revenue of around EUR 150 million, to be charged in three phases, and which will be set out in full, through the Energy Sector System Sustainability Fund, to reduce the overall rate of use of the natural gas system rather than the State budget. This option will allow a reduction of 3 % to 5 % of natural gas prices to domestic and industrial consumers, depending on the level of pressure contracted. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Governance is reforming and reforms are working. This has been increasingly recognized internationally. Portugal rose, in just one year, eight positions on energy policy ranking in the World Economic Forum, released a few weeks ago, reaching the top-ten of a total of 125 countries evaluated. The same has happened with other international organizations that have highlighted the Green Tax Reform, the Green Growth Commitment, energy reforms and climate change policies. In the government, this recognition does not generate any triumphalist spirit. On the contrary, we maintain intact non-conformity in diagnosis and reformism in solutions. We always want to go further in the reforms, as today, once again, is evidenced by this diploma. But let us leave sophisms and prejudices. Nothing moves us against Galp, it is a relevant company, which creates value and employment and with great international assertion, but everything moves us in favour of Portuguese consumers, and there is no room for hesitation. I hope that on a subject of this political relevance, despite the natural partisan differences, everyone will be sidelined with the Portuguese Government and consumers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u144	The Bureau shall record two entries for requests for clarification to the Minister, who shall report on how he wishes to respond. The requests for clarification are from Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro, PS, and Mrs Vera Rodrigues, CDS-PP. Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, bring us today the extension of the extraordinary contribution through a bill. From that point on, we tell him that, as far as the idea he has underlying, he will have the support of the Socialist Party. If this idea is, as we understand, to extend the sacrifices to those who are not the usual ones, it seems to us to be a good idea. We wanted to take advantage of this debate to ask you a few questions about how you want to implement this idea. And the questions I wanted to leave you have exactly to do with the operationality you want to print on the capture of this contribution. The first question has to do with the so-called collectable matter. The project, which seems to us, in some cases, not consistent, not transparent and even legally questionable, is part of a notion of collectable matter in which we have an expectable volume multiplied by a price of the past, an average of the price of the past, and weighted by a factor that Mr Minister will then define by port. All this seems to us to be totally opaque in relation to the solution found and we would like the Minister to explain these options to us between a future volume, a past price and an unknown weighting. The second question has to do with a possible dispute, already announced, which may arise and Mr Minister has not fled to this, saying that the main marketer, Galp, has pointed out some divergences in relation to the solution found. We do not want to go into this point, but to safeguard consumers, we wanted to be told, in the event of a gain of this litigation by Galp, by whom such demining or interest would be borne. by consumers or by the State budget? That's the question I'm asking you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u146	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u147	As regards the transfer of funds, I would like to ask whether it has already been implemented and how. And even in this case, in the future, how will this reversal of this contribution be done? Will it be done through the State Budget or will it be made directly at the rates? It is that this issue is not yet resolved, or at least I do not know how this reversal has been done so far. I ask you this question, Minister, because this lack of knowledge leads us to think about another question: could this be a state aid? And to that end, I ask you whether the European Union has been heard about this solution, since this reversal may possibly be envisaged in a broader context than a State aid which may perhaps be given.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u148	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u149	We would therefore like to know whether the European Union has indeed been heard on this issue. These are the doubts, we repeat, before a good idea but with an implementation that we find unclear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u150	Mr. Minister will respond in the end. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Mr Minister, we heard today the opposition leader say that this majority and that this government were exhausted from the troika, that they had stopped working and that they had nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u152	The PS leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u153	Mr Minister, we, the majority and the Government, could even be exhausted, because removing the country from the pre-banking has done a lot of work, following all the programmes and reforms that have been done, at the level of the Memorandum of Understanding, particularly in the area of energy, has actually done a lot of work. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This debate, Minister, is a good opportunity for us to make a balance sheet and a collection of measures taken by this government. I had the opportunity to make this assessment and that summary. About 50 measures have been implemented by this Government since 2011 to make the energy sector more efficient and thus to help improve the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, also in the defence of taxpayers and in the defence of consumers, private or business. With regard to the reduction of the tariff deficit, Mr Minister, a measure of the most relevant that was followed by this government, he was asked to make a balance sheet and a point of view on how the reduction of that tariff deficit ultimately resulted in a benefit for taxpayers and users. And I also asked you to make the point of the impact situation that the extraordinary assessment on the energy sector has already produced in 2014. The logic of this government, Minister, has been to pay attention, contrary to what the opposition always tells us, to those who are weaker and more unprotected. With regard to the measure of the social electricity tariff, which covers a potential of 500 000 families, in particular those which are more socially weakened, such as beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the beneficiaries of the CSR, the beneficiaries of the supplement on unemployment benefit, disability pensions, etc. which are in fact the most unprotected and need special attention, I ask you, Minister, if you remember that in recent years there has been a similar measure. I went to do a research, an evaluation—from the internal records of the Assembly of the Republic, to consultations on Google—I was looking for a comparable measure by the Socialist Party and I did not find it. So I ask you whether there is a huge difference between the rhetoric of the opposition and what this government is doing. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u154	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note, of course, that the Socialist Party has given its support to the idea underlying this contribution and I hope that in the details of the measure there is no argument to end by not voting favourably on the proposal which has been pondered for a long time. Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro, if there is any matter which has been the subject of legal, technical and conceptual weighting by this Government was this measure. We did not want, after we announced in May, to present a solution in a hasty manner and that it was not robust enough to be effective in reducing consumer tariffs. The solution we have presented to this Parliament has the advantage of being prepared and discussed with the troika. Therefore, the doubts about possible State aid are not due, since this matter was still discussed in the last assessment with the troika. But in practice, what matters is whether or not the Socialist Party is available to support this measure, which is an important measure because, as Mrs Vera Rodrigues said, it is a measure that eventually translates a vision that transcends the short term and the Memorandum of Understanding. When opposition often accuses us of going beyond the troika, in some matters that is true. We're going beyond the troika in the area of energy. By the troika, we would have stayed with cuts in energy incomes, in electricity. We have gone beyond the troika with the social tariff, extending from 60 000 to 500 000 consumers, we have gone beyond the troika at low cost, we have gone beyond the troika at reference prices and now we have gone beyond the troika at taxing the take-or-pays to lower from 3 % to 5 % the rates to consumers. So this is a matter that is going on in an absolutely normal way. The reversal of the Energy Sector Sustainability Fund takes place within the deadlines until the end of this year, with a difference: in the case of this extraordinary contribution, all revenue will be devoted to the financing of the tariff and, therefore, the reduction of tariffs to consumers is a matter which the industrial sector and the domestic sector appreciate, since it is absolutely not going for State expenditure. As Mrs Vera Rodrigues says, with cuts in excessive revenues in the area of electricity, we have been able to demonstrate that there should be no manicure between sustainability and competitiveness here, that we can bet on renewable energies and at the same time reduce costs on the energy sector, but also that the benefits of these cuts can be allocated simultaneously to the sustainability of the sector, eliminating tariff debt and reducing costs to consumers, extending to 500 000 consumers the reduction of tariffs by 34 %. I therefore believe that we were able, in a very demanding context, to demonstrate that we had talent, energy, boldness and courage to transcend the short term and conveniences, despite the doubts that are always raised. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u156	We will now proceed to the presentation of the PCP bill. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP presents the bill that amends the Special Contribution Scheme on the Energy Sector and, as we refer to in the bill itself, the option of segmentation, privatization and liberalisation of the energy sector, strategy followed by successive governments, as well as the guarantee of profitability to a shared sector and generator of inefficiencies and that integrates a strong natural monopoly, are at the origin of the accumulation over the years of the so-called energy tariff deficit. The CFP has always opposed the penalisation of both consumers and taxpayers by a situation resulting from the right-wing policy options in the energy sector. Moreover, even with the increase in tariff debt, since the privatisation and segmentation of the sector, the economic groups have accumulated billions of euros in profits. The CFP considers that this contribution on the energy sector should be the means of cancelling the tariff debt, accounting for those who make the most of the current structure and policy options for the sector, not by any means reflecting the resolution of the tariff debt on consumers and taxpayers. We point out the need to distinguish the contribution and the high profits of the economic groups of the energy sector on tariff debt in relation to the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. on our part, we express complete willingness to find the best solutions in the specialized legislative plan, either in relation to the objective, not solely or exclusively but primarily, of the elimination of the designated tariff debt in the application of this revenue, or in relation to the purpose of not excluding or exempting large companies and economic groups that are today outside this scheme, particularly in the distribution or retail. Two last references which cannot but be underlined regarding fiscal policy and strategic sectors and which are fundamental issues in this discussion. On the one hand, in Portugal, there are no more abstract taxes, as we have come to repeat and reaffirm. What is an unbearable and increasing tax burden on the incomes of workers, pensioners, micro and small entrepreneurs and, at the same time, a scandalous disgrace in the taxation of large economic groups. While we are talking about this contribution, we are also already having the tax burden relieved at the IRC rate on large economic groups. We, PCP, proposed the creation of a rate of 12, 5 %, a lower rate for profits of less than €15 000 and proposed the elimination of the special payment on behalf of micro and small enterprises. But we also proposed, within IRC, the replacement of the normal rate of 25 % and the creation of a new, more aggravated rate for profits over EUR 3 million. It's a matter of fiscal justice, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u159	We have proposed in this sector the reduction of VAT on electricity and natural gas to 6 %, a measure that should have already been followed and which continues to be postponed by this majority and by this government. Finally, with the privatisations, in particular, this energy sector has reduced the financing of the State budget and limited its capacity to solve the problems of the country. One of the main causes of today's public accounts deficit is the diversion of many billions of euros of highly profitable corporate tax profits that were privatized yesterday. It is urgent to break with the power of monopolies and open the way to recovery to the hands of the Portuguese people from strategic sectors such as this, with a strong and dynamic State business sector, at the service of democracy and development, an essential factor in responding to the problems of the country, keeping in national hands decisive economic levers and promoting a policy of employment and raising living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u160	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Carlos São Martinho, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome the Government and, in particular, the regular team present here for all the reformist work that has been printed in its action. In areas where much was talked about and nothing was changed, this government unleashed a Gordian knot that seemed impossible to solve, since no government so far dared to play in the energy sector. Thus, in two or three sentences — excuse the slightness of the expression — the Government has already taken measures and adopted solutions to, inter alia, eliminate tariff debt by 2020 ; eliminate the tariff deficit from 2015 ; limit the actual annual increase of tariffs to 1, 5 % or 2 % by 2020, and not to two digits, as has happened; contribute to the improvement of the State budget; influence the reduction of consumer price; extend the social tariff from 60 000 to 500 000 families; rebalance the public gas service contract and introduce, at national level, the marketing of low cost fuels. In the path of this reformist vein, the Government brings us today to the discussion of Bill No. 278 / XII ( 4. ( a ) that no longer intends to improve and deepen the competition of the energy sector, specifically in natural gas, for better service and a better price for end-users, whether domestic or industrial. The PCP also presents Bill No. 779 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which aims to amend the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector. the analysis of the said bill shows that the concerns and suggestions of the CFP are already accepted in the amendments proposed by the Government to be introduced in the EESC ( extraordinary contribution on the energy sector ), through Bill No. 278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). In addition to extending the base of incidence to other activities of the National Natural Gas System, it ensures that the whole revenue generated is entirely affected by the benefit of its consumers through direct reduction of tariffs. The EESC has also taken account of the contribution capacity of potential recipients of this extraordinary contribution in creating this scheme, safeguarding small operators from jeopardising their economic and financial sustainability and not restricting competition and access to the energy market. This exception covers mini-waters, small production, cogeneration with electrical power installed less than 20 MW and production of electricity without power injection on the network. Small bound distributors, retail sales activities and, in general, taxable persons whose total balance sheet value is less than EUR 1, 5 million are also excluded. Given the above, the Government's proposal goes far beyond the contents of Bill No 779 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and by interpreting Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to believe that the CFP will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, in the interests of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and consumers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u162	Mr. Carlos São Martinho confirms that he signed up for clarification? [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I'm not ironing. It is that I had the indication that this was indeed a request for clarification, but of its intervention it was not clear and it might appear that it was making an intervention because it also referred to the initiative of the Government. Don't take it bad that I ask for confirmation, because there is no other Member on record at the moment either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u163	I confirm, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u164	So it was a request for clarification. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u165	Mr President, Mr Carlos São Martinho, I would like to say from now on that Mr President's doubt was also my own, because we essentially verified a position taken by the PSD, that we have recorded and heard with attention, but the question was indeed lacking. When referring to the way in which the CFP is expected, it also records Mr Carlos São Martinho's optimism and confidence, but what is essential in this context is that there is a sense and a path in which the CFP, once again, can not fail to point out and mark a concrete contribution from the point of view of clarification and also the application of the most just form of a contribution which is late and insufficient. This is the question that moves us, essentially. We say, many years ago, that so-called tariff debt cannot and should not be a penalty on taxpayers and consumers, but what is happening, particularly with pseudo-green taxation, is that there is a penalty for consumers, either with the imposition of carbon charges — in particular natural gas, which has no blame for this — or with the costs of production in a special regime, which has been increasing, paying taxpayers, and raising concerns on our part. When he says that the operators of the National Natural Gas System are now included, we say that, even from the point of view of the electric sector, and not only in the distribution of energy, the flap has to be looked at here differently by the state. That is why, Mr President, we say that our proposal makes a contribution that is of course indispensable for debate and the appropriate legislative solution. That is why this debate also depends on the position that we all have taken. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no more entries, I shall finish the debate, and the vote will take place at the next voting session.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u167	Mr President, I call for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the Members. Members sign up early. According to the rules of procedure, I should have closed the debate. You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate is basically an extension of the existing law. And I must say that, on the part of the Left Block, nothing moves us to defend Galp's abusive profits and a legislative construction which, in fact, defended these abusive profits over many years. So if the result of the application of this law is to bring more justice, of course no one can say it is against. But here is a story that we should keep in mind, because it is the story that summarizes, on the one hand, how we have companies in the energy sector that have so much money and so much profit year after year and, on the other hand, how we then have this money to be subtracted from both the economy and families. This story involves a very simple term, which is called segmentation: it is the segmentation of the electricity sector, it is the segmentation of the natural gas sector, it is segmentation — that is, from what existed to then be able to sell more easily and to say that there were efficiency gains. Now, we haven't seen any efficiency gains, what we've seen was the gains of private companies growing year after year and the turnover of families and the economy growing more and more, year after year. This is the result of the legislative amendment and these political wills. And Mr Minister, particularly in this area, has had a sort of « escape forward », because he tells us that the problem will never be a national problem, that we will solve national issues with a European change and, almost in a « magic pass », he says that the exit here will be that of interconnections, both electricity and natural gas, to the rest of Europe. Mr Minister, once again, this is a theoretical discourse, macro of this problem and there is no criticism of this macro theory. Then there is always criticism of the practical application. Applying in concrete, we continue to see that the tariff deficit has grown due to legislative changes and has been created with these legislative amendments, but those who have paid are always people and that is why they pay much more than they should pay, either electricity or natural gas. Then there is always the answer that the problem, being solved abroad, is dependent on European choices and not on national choices. And when one asks how much it costs, for example, to have connections to France, whether from electricity or natural gas, the answers, for the beginning of any conversation, are that we are talking about tens of billions of euros — that is, just for the beginning of conversation, because we are not even talking about this project, then we are not taking this project to the limit. So we are going to hit again on a fundamental point: will the ciphers, in this case the euro symbols, be again an invoice to pass on to people? Will we be paying for this dream of internationalization of the Portuguese energy sector? Are we again going to be more expensive, with more tariff debt, these choices at European level? I think these are the questions to be asked. Mr Minister will say: "But that is much more than what we are discussing today! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is true that it is much more than we are discussing today, but neither can we look at the tree and say that there is no forest that involves this tree. It is almost as if, coming back to the beginning of my speech, we will be discussing only this legislative amendment that will cost Galp, hiding that Galp has had abusive profits, years after years, resulting from political choices and from parasiticizing the lives of families and the economy. This is the background story, which we think should never be forgotten and which is not resolved by these legislative amendments that the government has taken forward, because in practice the government never really wanted to change this story. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u170	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u171	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, Mr.as and Mrs. Members: I believe that this is a matter in which, I see it, there is broad consensus, but it is good to clarify what separates us, in particular, from the intervention now made by Mr and my dear friend Pedro Filipe Soares. We like that Portuguese companies have a profit, and we do not think that, simply because they have a profit, the government must take advantage of the merit of companies and their workers. Another thing is that the government is paying attention to what is happening in the energy sector and, when there is an unwarranted gain, don't leave anyone out and make the sacrifice that is asked of all Portuguese people in a specific sector as well. And this has nothing to do with this specific company, which deserves our full consideration, but with the model of the take-or-pay contracts and with the need to make the national electricity sector as sustainable as possible. We live in times when, with a good perspective, which was to make our dependence more sustainable, achieve energy efficiency gains, and achieve even change behaviors, without being taxed, what we achieved was an increase in the tariff deficit that almost led us to "the last that erases the light", which was unsustainable and leads us to total closure—and perhaps the PS should be more careful—and a set of excessive incomes and even dubious legality. And I will not refer to the ICEGs who have increased exponentially during the Eng.o José Socrates government, but essentially to some excessive incomes that we have now been forced to reduce. And the government has done something about it, but it has gone there. I therefore believe that consensus on these matters is important, because the more effective and more efficient these measures are the stronger the government is given. But a government that has already introduced the low costs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u172	Did you enter the low cost? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u173	... which has changed the status and has given more instruments to the Competition Authority, the same Competition Authority which, as you can see, acts and effectively, and which has introduced the reference prices for the consumer to have better information today—I am obviously speaking on behalf of those who believe in the liberal market, in strong regulators and informed consumers, because perhaps others will not have that opinion — today has a set of weapons to be able to introduce more competition in the market as well. I have carefully read and understood the kindness of the diploma that the Portuguese Communist Party brings today to the debate in the House, although the essential of what the CFP wants is poured out, and with more balance, in the proposal of the Government. It is that we cannot affect competition in this sector and that is why I say that, for those who believe in the market and in competition, leave out small productions and allow this market to have all the competition and that the State interferes as little as possible, not reinforcing the presence or interference of the State in any pricing mechanism, I think it is reasonable. Therefore, I would say that we have clear gains in the social tariff, clear gains in combat, which must be done, in the tariff deficit — it is true that we need to improve the mechanism for reducing the tariff deficit, because the reduction of the tariff deficit benefits everyone — and we have an improvement in trying to reduce both prices for industry and for trade and for domestic consumers, in terms of a significant reduction in the tariff deficit — and it is good to remember, if we do consultations, that in the factors and costs of production, energy appears to be the most serious and difficult one, so all that can be done in this regard seems reasonable to me. And, of course, the great innovation that the Government's initiative brings is not just to stay for energy and also to cover gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u174	That's not what I meant, but you got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u175	Good for you, sir! We have had a number of debates here, we all asked that this regime be extended to gas as well. Therefore, as regards the extraordinary contribution, it seems to us that the essential part of this matter is an appeal to the opposition parties to support the government in order to have a broad consensus here on this matter. It is that this consensus and this support to the Government does not have to do with political issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u176	Not that you don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u177	...but, yes, with efficiency issues and with combat issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u178	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u179	I will finish, Mr. President. In short, what is intended is to achieve a fair and balanced distribution of sacrifices and, of course, gains for consumers, whether they are domestic or those of the Portuguese industry. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u180	Mr Paulo Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u181	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister brings us another solution based on a fiscal solution today. In fact, Mr Minister, in recent times, he has specialized in this area — I would say that more than the Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy Planning, you are now another minister of finance with concerns on the tax issue. Indeed, we have the taxes, which we all pay today, for plastic bags, when we go to the supermarket, we have the taxes when we are going to put gasoline in the car, resulting from actions of your Ministry, and we have a set of taxes associated with green taxation, to which this contribution is now added. To my colleague Fernando Serrasqueiro's question whether the problems surrounding this contribution will have any effect on consumers. But we are already used to having your Ministry's measures have that impact. And we are already accustomed to these being the measures used by the governments of the 20th century and not by the governments of the 21st century. In fact, Mr Minister does not face the main problems of the country which affect the protected areas themselves. For example, about the anemic investment that we have been talking about all afternoon today, we are today, at the country level, with investments in this area that returned to 1986. What is the contribution of these areas, which have great capacity to invest, to increase investment in our country? For example, with regard to energy self-sustainability, what is the contribution of your policies to making Portugal more self-sustainable today? It is that today we are more self-sustaining energetically, but, if we are, it is thanks to previous policies and no policy of this government. When we think about environmental issues, for example, fire related issues are those that most seriously affect the environment in Portugal. But on this point, Mr President, there is no solution, when it is possible to associate these matters, in particular, with the energy issue. And we're also talking about the territory. And there, Mr Minister does not present any solution to the abandoned territory either. Today, there are 3 million acres of forests in our country, which are abandoned and which, if they were taken advantage of, would also be a great contribution, from the energy point of view and from the environmental point of view. From that point of view, what I want to say to you right now is that your Government and your Ministry have no ambition, no strategy and no vision. This, unlike other 21st-century governments in other countries that have taken up the battle of energy self-sustainability, such as South Africa, transforming coal into biofuel, such as the United States of America, transforming shale into oil, like Canada, transforming shale sands also into oil. This energy revolution, which is happening thanks to research and innovation, is completely abandoned by the policies of your Ministry, because the Minister and his government focus on policies of the 20th century, i.e. taxation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u183	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members were alert to other debates that took place on the subject of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, and it should be recalled that the Greens have always expressed their support for this initiative. But with two essential criticisms: firstly, the title « extraordinary », because it is a pity that we do not begin to think of the permanent character of such a contribution ; secondly (critique that we have always done ), the inadequacy of the scope of sectors and companies in relation to the payment of this extraordinary contribution. I believe that today the Government has come to recognize that the Greens are right about this criticism, precisely promoting an extension of this scope. But we also want to note that the PCP bill goes further on this matter, promoting greater coverage of companies to pay this extraordinary contribution. I see that the Government, through this proposal, recognizes some of the criticisms that have been made to this extraordinary contribution. There is one thing I would like to mention, which is the following: one hand and one hand is something always strange and relatively unjust, whether from what point of view it is. As far as these companies are concerned, the government makes them pay an extraordinary contribution, but the large economic groups have a blessing on the government already in practice, which has to do with the double reduction of the IRC rate. We could also talk about other blessings and even throw them out a little bit, such as the maintenance of certain projects where certain companies — the Minister knows perfectly well who I am talking about — violate contracts and environmental impact declarations, but the government says nothing and continues to rule all that it wants in beautiful valleys with heinous dams. Therefore, they are blessings behind blessings, to which we should be careful, because they are favours that are being promoted to some of the major economic groups also in the energy sector and that they end up, then, by making up for other contributions that are requested. Mr Minister, there is a sentence I have held and I will use and abuse it, not only in this debate, but from here on forward. The phrase to which I am going to take great care is the following: « Everything moves us in favour of Portuguese consumers ». I would like to know, then, why this theimosia, which is still wrong above, to increase or maintain the increase in VAT in electricity and natural gas, which is particularly damaging to consumers. Why, Minister? If it is consumers who move it, why is this damage to Portuguese families resulting from an option that the Government stubbornly maintains and that is linked to this taxation of electricity and natural gas?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u184	Mr Nuno Filipe Matias spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, we have just heard the Socialist Party accuse him of having only tax solutions, but do not worry, because before having tax solutions than having debt problems, something in which the PS was user, worker and, unfortunately, worker in relation to the inheritance he left for Portugal to pay and for the Portuguese to bear. Unfortunately, we have heard too many times the opposition attack without having the clarity to say what the starting point, the context, the decisions and those responsible, who, at some point, have conditioned our options and who demanded that at this time there be courage and competence to give answers. When we talk about the reformist solutions and when we discuss the urgency and why, we should first of all be aware that Portugal did not start in June 2011 and that our pre-insolvency situation should be better known by the Portuguese, to, on the one hand, realize the seriousness of the problems, the irresponsibility and incompetence of those who managed them, but on the other hand, have a sense of why the urgency of acting and reforming. The history of this time did not begin in 2011, so understanding what led us to the restoration is the fundamental sign that we do not want to forget what happened, that we learn the lesson and that we want to correct the mistakes and no longer repeat them. In June 2011 the invoices of successive parties originated debts that showed that growth was leveraged with indebtedness. It is only thus explained that between 2000 and 2011 gross public debt increased by EUR 131 billion. There was therefore spending on more and less utility. There were debts to pay, and there were many, and the financial crisis, which was used as justification, was not the cause. The financial crisis was also not the cause in the road sector, where the liability was EUR 20 billion; it was not the cause of debt in the transport sector, where the liability was more than EUR 17 billion; it was not the cause of accumulated debt in health, where it was more than EUR 4 billion; nor was it the cause in energy, where there was an incompetent party that protected interests and cost too much money. The truth is that in 2011 we had an accumulated tariff debt of about EUR 3 billion. The truth is that the opposition, when it speaks of austerity, should condescend that reality demonstrates the need for an adjustment that, made with courage, social consciousness and without looking at interests, would be fundamental and would appeal to a collective effort. If in all areas there have been cuts, savings, seeking to make the role of the State sustainable, in energy this is the paradigmatic and central example of how one can return sustainability by cutting in the so-called "excessive incomes". This was the first government to cut 3400 million costs in the system, which avoided tariff increases from 11 % to 13 % between 2013 and 2014, which strengthened the social tariff, which was strong with the strongest, protecting the most accurate, but never losing the notion that it is essential to have a sustainable energy system. This proposal, which aims to extend the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector, once again calls upon those who can most benefit all: consumers, businesses and the real economy. Despite being a measure applicable to all subsectors, it seeks to respond to imbalances that still existed from the point of view of take-or-pay clauses at natural gas level. The price of natural gas is today the most expensive in Europe, which does not find reasons for operation or rationality. Therefore, with this proposal, there is another answer to benefit consumers and the competitiveness of our companies, because this expansion of the scope of the extraordinary contribution will allow the price of natural gas to fall to consumers, which is good for the economy and our families. In the energy sector, it is also clear that this proposal shows that we have been strong with the strong, not losing the reformist momentum and creating mechanisms that restore sustainability to a system. Therefore, at this stage, it is important that the opposition recognises that this was the first government to have such concern, making these cuts and this adjustment. In addition, it is time to acknowledge that there were unsustenability that had to be resolved once and for all. The clear question is: is this not the time when the opposition should be placed alongside consumers, businesses, families and national interests? We welcome the positive signal the Socialist Party has given in this debate, showing that it seems to recognize it as a good idea, but it is important not to lose sight of the concern it has added to the alleged legal problems it may contain. So it is important that the Socialist Party responds to the following: these legal problems which it concerns prevent it from being on the side of consumers, businesses and national interests or do they choose to be on the side of a set of system costs that we want to solve once and for all? Portugal agreed in 2011 with a nightmare and we want it to continue to manifest hope, growth and trust in 2015. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still parties that have time. Mr Bruno Dias has just mentioned to the Bureau that he wants to surprise us with a brief intervention in his second speech. You have the floor, then, for a brief speech, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you will allow me, I shall clarify very briefly on issues that have been raised to the PCP bill. The CFP proposal does not intend to put small producers or retailers to pay this contribution; on the contrary, they are exempt. What we propose is that the exemption, which is now in force, be abolished for the economic groups that have companies operating in retail and production in various schemes. This is a fair proposal for us and for the honourable Members. Members who tell us whether or not they agree with this, for the benefit of consumers and for the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u188	For an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor, given time by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I note in this debate that those who support do - in a very vigorous way, but those who say to support then in practice end up talking about everything and something else and do not do the important thing, which was to express a very strong support for a measure that is demanding and that obviously has opponents outside this House. Therefore, it would be important to realize who is, in a clear way, next to this matter. I was concerned about Mr. Paulo Campos' readings. I invite you to read what the OECD, the World Bank, the European Commission, says, because the various international organizations say that Portugal is an example. Why? Because we inherited your tariff debt, a « backpack», and instead of challenging the wagering on renewables, we went further, making the cut on excessive incomes compatible — EUR 3400 million — in addition to going further on the wagering on renewables. Of course, we welcome the fact that there is widespread support to the extent and I hope that this deepening can be achieved in this particular area. I believe that this debate should make it clear that, despite many doubts about GALP and others from a legal point of view, the Portuguese Parliament has no doubt about the need to, in an area where the benefit is for consumers, dare, risk and legislate so that excessive income cuts are for the benefit of consumers. There is no shortage of lawyers who raise doubts about legislative matters — that is our daily bread. The important thing is whether there is political courage to cut into excessive incomes, to pay off inherited tariff debt and to lower tariffs to consumers. I confess that I did not leave this debate with the feeling that I expected to leave in relation to those who, in a timid way, have finally found pretexts and arguments not to say what we all wanted to know: who is next to this measure, who is next to the government in the defence of taxpayers and consumers, who is raising doubts of a legal nature to find, once again, a pretext not to do what must be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u190	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u191	Mr President, I was hoping that the Socialist Party would take this opportunity to explain why it was that in 2006 it legislated the way it did. We are solving a problem in 2006 and today they lost the opportunity to explain why taxpayers and consumers did not benefit from Nigeria's gas resale and had to be this government once again solving the problem. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u192	For a second intervention, Mr Paulo Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we see from the speeches of the Minister of the Environment and of the Member of the Social Democratic Party, Nuno Filipe Matias, the majority continues to oppose the opposition. It is in a natural stage, probably the stage necessary for, within a few months, to be opposed and make this speech with the true title of being opposition. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u194	Who decides this is the people, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u195	Mr Minister, we are with the Portuguese, we are with the consumers, we are with whoever wants to solve problems, we are with whoever wants to realize and not delay, we are with whoever wants to invest in Portugal, we are with whoever wants to develop our country, we are with whoever wants to have an energy policy that transforms our country into self-sufficiency, we are with whoever wants to make policies to develop the territory, we are with those who want to develop policies to solve the problem of fires. [[PSD protests.]] We are not on the side of those who are held by arms in the government, those who are held by arms crossed in the ministry, those who do not support research and innovation, those who do not enter the energy revolution that is currently under way, transforming Portugal into a self-sustainable country, taking advantage of 3 million hectares of mattes for the production of gas oil, fuels, biofuels and bioproducts. [[PSD protests.]] I know this truth hurts, Minister, and that is why you feel this movement in the benches. The truth hurts and the truth is, at this moment, the truth is what I said in my first speech: is that the Minister is a minister of a 20th-century government, with policies of the 20th century, with backward policies, and not with the necessary policies, particularly from the point of view of economic development, especially the energy policy that is necessary for our country. That is why, Mr Minister, it will certainly soon, in very few months, be able to implement what, during these four years, this government has not been able to implement: an energy policy that seeks self-sufficiency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-18.u196	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we conclude this debate. The legislative initiatives will be voted on next Friday. Tomorrow, our plenary session will take place at 3 p.m. with a long agenda, which I shall state: in the first point, we will generally appreciate Bill No 775 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; the second point will be completed with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 426 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a special regime for alleged death in the event of shipwreck of fishing vessels ( CFP ), 778 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) and 781 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of ship shipwreck or disappearance ( BE); the third point consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 763/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Functional reorganization of the emergency service network ( BE) and 780 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April, which sets out the criteria for categorising the services and establishments of the National Health Service ( SNS ) according to the nature of their responsibilities and the framework of the valences exercised and their positioning of the hospital network and proceeds to their classification ( PS ), together with draft resolution No 1262 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent resolution of the problems facing the emergency services ( CFP ) ; in the fourth point we shall have a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On prevention of HCV and making treatment more suitable for patients with hepatitis C ( The Greens) and 1264 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a programme for the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C and the adoption of measures guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of the Portuguese State in the area of medicine ( PCP ) ; finally the fifth and final point will be the general discussion of the proposal for law No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the Legal Regime of Local Authorities, approving the Statute of the Inter-municipal Entities, establishes the legal regime for the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approves the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ). For today, our work has been completed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 14 minutes.]]
