ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 790 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Maternity and Paternity Support Act for the Right to Be Born ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 832 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1284 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government concerted action between authorities, regional government of the Azores and Parliament in negotiations with the US Government on the Lajes Base ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1296 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of an emergency plan that minimizes the effects of the reduction of civilian personnel at the service of the U.S. military forces at the Lajes Base ( BE ), 1294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures that minimize the social and economic impact of reducing the American presence at the Lajes Base ( PS ) and 1372 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Support for populations and the economy of the Third Island, affected by the decision of the US personnel reduction authorities of the Lajes Base ( PCP ). The draft resolutions of the respective parliamentary groups are registered. Deputies Carlos Costa Neves, Mariana Aiveca, Carlos Enes and Antonio Filipe. It is also registered to intervene on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila. To present draft resolution No 1284 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on January 8, the U.S. Department of Defense announced the decision to significantly reduce the US military presence in the Lajes. The decision has strong social, economic and geo-strategic consequences, which have to be, as they have been, seriously equated. The problems and challenges arising from the decision of the United States of America are multiple and diverse and are already identified. Since the problems are multiple and diverse, solutions also have to be and require the involvement of all those who, for such solutions, must contribute. Obviously by negotiation, workers' rights and interests must be safeguarded, social, environmental and economic balances are restored, and at the same time ensure the re-use of such important structures as are existing in Portugal's statement, in the current geopolitical and geo-strategic context of Europe, transatlantic and global. The clear choice of the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups is justified, as expressed in the draft resolution we have tabled, by concerted action in the face of the challenges we are facing. The search for quick and effective solutions to all calls us. from there the relevance of the option through negotiation with the United States of America,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u6	... always better than any form of confrontation when what you want are effective solutions, as well as the creation of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group, with the participation of members of the Portuguese Government and the Regional Government of the Azores and the involvement of national and regional parliaments, local authorities and social partners. It is exemplary the clear confluence of concerns, commitment and interest of the political forces represented in the Assembly of the Republic, as is the case in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. We must all cultivate the conjugation of efforts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u8	It is within our reach, at the distance of a very small step, that we take a common position on this matter. It will have profound political significance. That's what we want. After all, this is a matter of greater national relevance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u9	To present draft resolution No 1296 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know the situation motivated by the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from the Lajes Base, we all know the impact this decision has on the Third Island, more specifically in the City Hall of Victoria Beach. This is not a problem that caught us by surprise on 8 January, since this withdrawal process has already started a few years ago. We do not forget and criticise what the Portuguese Government's position on this situation was: total disillusionment, not monitoring as it should and therefore has its responsibilities. We have mentioned them here, but I believe that today is the moment of a more discussion for the future and of solving the problems that are on the ground and that affect the populations of that island, at the most various levels — workers of direct jobs, workers who have already been fired because they were indirect jobs, circumstances that occurred when the United States of America banned the monitoring of civilians by the military and the height at which the first large bulk of redundancies of workers, these redundancies are given, let it be said, without any rights. So what matters today is to look at this as an emergency situation and a situation in which the Government of the Republic has to assume responsibilities not only through diplomatic channels but also here in our concrete space. I mean this because the draft resolution of the Left Block, which is exactly the same as the draft resolution that was approved by all parliamentary groups in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, defends the need for an emergency plan to run the emergency of the population of Praia da Vitória. We all know the levels of unemployment, the impact this situation has on the island's gross domestic product, but an emergency plan is needed. In parallel with this emergency plan, of course, negotiations are needed, but negotiations where States remain equally and not in a subjugation position. The United States of America has committed itself to dealing with the environmental retraining plan, particularly in the aquifers area. We have heard not only from the President of the Regional Azores Government but also from the Members. Presidents of their municipal chambers involved, and everyone has told us that there is a commitment from the United States of America to this environmental requalification, which is immense. So we must not yield here and demand exactly this commitment from the United States of America. for our part, there is all openness to consensus. But consensus cannot also be a consensus without principles and it cannot be a consensus in which the State is in a minority position vis-à-vis those who, for 60 years, had at the base of the Lajes a strong exploitation of their own attempts. That is why we will see what is possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u11	To present draft resolution No 1294 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the PS has the floor Mr Carlos Enes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution submitted by the Socialist Party aims to recommend to the Government of the Republic the immediate application of measures that minimize the impact of the reduction of civilian and military effects on Air Base No 4 in the Lajes, which has already been processing since at least August 2013, to which the deactivation of a significant set of infrastructures is combined. All initiatives that can emerge with this aim are positive, but the PS argues that it is time to respond to immediate needs that are already felt on the day-to-day of the third island population. Time is for action and implementation of concrete measures, which can introduce economic dynamisation and lead to job creation. Both the Regional Government and the Chambers and the municipal assemblies of the Third Island have already presented — through the Economic Revitalisation Plan for the Third Island — a set of concrete measures which, we believe, can help to consolidate these objectives in the shortest possible time, and the Regional Government has already initiated a set of measures which are in its sphere of competence. The PS considers that the Government of the Republic, in the name of national solidarity, in view of the seriousness of the matter and bearing in mind the contribution that the Lajes Base has made over six decades to the country's international assertion, should make its contribution by actuating mechanisms that respond to immediate needs. This priority option does not invalidate the continuation of studies for other medium- and long-term solutions, since the problems will unfortunately prolong over time, nor should it even correspond to the reduction of diplomatic efforts with the United States of America, stressing the consequences of its actions, particularly in the environmental component. The fundamental issue at the moment is that the Government of the Republic recognises the state of economic and social emergency of the Third Island, in order to adopt the necessary and just measures with legal framework, the competence of which belongs only to the Government of the Republic. It was in this sense that we proposed a set of measures expressed in our draft resolution. But in addition to these measures, we reiterate that the Government of the Republic must strengthen its full commitment to the American Government, to defend the rights of Portugal and to defend the workers of the Lajes Base so that they are not disturbed by their rights. The understanding between the political forces represented in this Parliament will be a fundamental step towards achieving this wish. We are open to dialogue, open to consensus platforms aimed at the application of solutions that can, within a short period of time, respond effectively and rapidly to the needs that arise. The understanding that may arise in this Parliament will also be a key element of integrating into conversations that still remain with the United States of America, strengthening the position of Portugal and encouraging all those in the United States who have sought a just solution to the problem of the Lajes Base. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it has been clear, this is not merely a regional issue, but a national issue which must combine efforts to ensure that solutions are as serious as possible. So we expect it and, in this sense, they can count on the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u13	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that has been created for the workers of the Lajes Base, their families and the economy of the Third Island, and particularly at the city hall of the Praia da Vitoria, is a cause of concern. For several decades now, the American presence at the Lajes Base has been creating objectively a situation of great dependence on the population and the economy of the Third Island regarding its presence, insofar as the Base is the largest employer on that island. in a bilateral relationship that has been very marked by unilateralism, in which unilateral decisions made unilaterally by the US administration have prevailed, a situation is created, in fact, of great vulnerability to decisions such as that with which we are now confronted, which requires, on the part of the Portuguese State, a lot of attention to this situation and a lot of attention to the social consequences arising from it. It has already been said that the moment is not confrontational, and indeed it is not. It would be absurd for someone to come here or defend, at any level, an attitude of confrontation with the US authorities. This is not the case, but it is the question of taking on negotiating and the Portuguese state to confront the American authorities with the responsibilities they must also assume with regard to the consequences that their decisions, which we do not question, because they are sovereign and legitimate, have in relation to those involved. Therefore, it is necessary to require responsibility for workers who are being dispensed and for their families. It is also necessary to compromise with the creation of economic and social alternatives for the population of the Third Island. The draft resolution proposed by the CFP here is, of course, due to the need for the development of a firm, diplomatic action in negotiations that need to be carried out with the US authorities. It also goes through a combination of efforts at all levels: at national level, because it is indeed a national problem; at regional level, given that we are talking about an autonomous region, which has its own governing bodies; and also at local level, with the authorities involved. This means that everyone, with their level of responsibility, commits to creating viable economic alternatives to the Third Island economy, but also commits to adopting social support measures that are indispensable to the population and to the workers affected by this decision. We also believe that measures are required to monitor this situation so that neither the local power, nor the regional power, nor the sovereign bodies of the Republic are given only to themselves in the management of this problem, but that there is a common follow-up so that there can be an exchange of suggestions, an exchange of experiences and fruitful cooperation between the various levels of power. To this end, our proposal is that it be created, at the initiative of the Government of the Republic, in conjunction with the Regional Government and local authorities, a committee to monitor and monitor the measures to be implemented with a view to reducing the consequences of the situation it is creating. We believe that it was also justified at the level of the Assembly of the Republic, in conjunction with the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, that there could be some mechanism to monitor this situation, given that there are shared responsibilities at regional and national level here. We understand that, in this respect, we should seek the highest consensus between all parliamentary seats and we believe that a great effort should be made to bring out a common text which everyone could subscribe to from this House. This would be important, either in bilateral negotiations that are necessary, or in the assumption of the commitment that is necessary for the populations of the Third Island and the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u15	The Bureau records a CDS-PP registration for the co-presentation of the joint resolution project with the PSD. You therefore speak for an intervention, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming all parliamentary groups for the presentation of a draft resolution on the Lajes Base. In fact, this is a subject that deserves debate, it deserves discussion and, above all, it deserves to be examined in particular in its content, in the contents of the draft resolutions that have been presented. I'm starting to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the relevance of these projects, but we cannot follow their content and purpose, especially in some of the recitals which have been included by different parliamentary groups. Like the ladies. Members know, the CDS-PP has already had an opportunity, more than once, to express its disappointment at how the decision to reduce the American military presence was taken. Neither the operational strategic context nor the financial and budgetary context arrive to prevent the Portuguese Government from showing its concern, dissatisfaction and to enable it to act institutionally within its own framework. And to act institutionally means, as has already been reaffirmed here by the honourable Members. Ministers for Defence and Foreign Affairs, within the Commission, maintain a firm position to safeguard due compensation for the economic, social and environmental impact of the reduction at the Lajes Base. Mrs. Members, it is natural and expectable that a reduction in the investment made in the Lajes by the United States of America will result from Portugal an adjustment of the facilities granted and the compensation required. That is what protects the relationship between States, and that is what it is in a State that values its dignity. We know that this is a complex negotiation, but that, in a spirit of dialogue and not of confrontation, with the solid relations of friendship and cooperation and not with ultimatums, will surely arrive at a good port. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known that the bilateral committee will meet in Washington in a few months. Until this meeting, parties must continue in the process of analysing the mitigation of the economic and social impact on the Third Island, in close cooperation with the Regional Government, with local authorities, and seeking to promote contacts with American representatives in the Congress and Senate that maintain a special friendship with Portugal. All this so that a consistent, concerted and inclusive position can be reached, a position that has a useful effect and that can serve the interests of the Azorians, the Azores and Portugal. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the projects of the Socialist Party and the Left Block, wanted to take account of our opposition with regard to two concrete aspects. First, we challenge the reading made by the Left Block on diplomatic inoperance and the lack of efforts to find alternative solutions. We must remember, say again and reaffirm how many times it is necessary for the government to have expressed its dissatisfaction and concern with the announcement of US intent. There have been numerous efforts at both political and diplomatic levels, both in terms of reduction, but also in terms of the need of the United States of America to help mitigate the impact of reduction. Secondly, we consider the Socialist Party's proposal to establish a maritime safety centre for the Gulf of Guinea in the Praia da Vitoria to be unwise. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should not be used as a counterpart for the negative impact of the US quota reduction. This proposal must occur, yes, but at the right time and in its own proper place, which is not this. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying this: it does not make sense that, in matters like this one, it is not possible to reach an understanding, it is not possible to arrive at a common text which is one of all parliamentary groups. It is this effort that all of us, together, need to know how to do it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u17	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we have to discuss a number of proposals on the need to take action in the face of the decision by the US authorities to fire 500 workers in a 900 universe, i.e. more than half of the workers at the Lajes Base. According to the City Hall of Victoria Beach, with this unilateral decision of the U.S. authorities, 25% of the city's active population will be unemployed, in addition to causing a fall in GDP of 30 %. As we all know, and despite the environmental consequences, the United States of America has over time been benefiting from many facilities granted by the Portuguese authorities regarding the use of the Lajes Base. What is true is that, despite the bilateral agreements between the two States, which in some way lay down the rules for the use of the Lajes Base, the US authorities have been unilaterally defining the rules for the game of this use, so many times outside these bilateral agreements. In view of what is happening, particularly with the decision by the US authorities to fire hundreds of Portuguese workers — what is worse if we take account of the fact that we are talking about the largest employer on the Third Island — it is first of all necessary for the Portuguese Government to take a firm and solid position, requiring the US authorities to compensate the people and the region for the profoundly negative effects that the decision to dismiss these workers will bring. But it is also necessary to require the United States of America to re-qualify the environment, whose commitment has already been made by the authorities of that country. In addition, it is still necessary for the Government of the Republic, in line with the Regional Government and the active involvement of the authorities and populations, to develop a set of compensation measures that can guarantee the creation of jobs on the Third Island. That is to say, for us, the diplomatic route is very important and in this context it is very important, but it is not enough. We therefore believe that the majority parties' project only responds to part of the problem. It is not quite clear what is intended with paragraph 2 of the majority party proposal. It said the PSD and the CDS-PP in paragraph 2 of the draft resolution: « To recommend to the Government the implementation of a concerted proposal with the Regional Government and the authorities involved ». How is this proposal made? We do not know and, since Mr Costa Neves still has time, we would like him to explain to us what the meaning is if he could. We do not know whether it is a proposal to revitalize the economy of the Third Island, whether it is a proposal to declare the Third Island as a social and economic emergency zone, or whether it is only a proposal to strengthen the position of the Portuguese Government. As we do not know, we were grateful that Mr Carlos Costa Neves could explain to us the meaning of the proposal provided for in paragraph 2 of the draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u19	I now give the floor to Mr António Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Rarely in this plenary, on a matter of national interest, there was such a broad consensus, so clear on a matter which obviously concerns all of us. I believe that from the interventions of all banks, without exception, there is a desire: there is a single position of the Portuguese State—and the Portuguese State necessarily includes the Government of the Republic, the will announced by the Regional Government, the concerns of local authorities—to negotiate with the Government of the United States. We are all aware that the United States Government was not well in this decision. He made a unilateral decision, made a decision in an impossibly way, made a decision that left us all not only surprised, but above all concerned with the social situation, with the economic consequences and also with the environmental results of its withdrawal. And above all, we agree. There is a need for consensus on an action and there is a need for clear intervention by all authorities on this matter. In fact, let me tell you: it does not matter whether it is an emergency, a state of emergency, or whether there is, in fact, a special consideration on a municipality, an island and the consequences for the region. It was also clear that last weekend it was no longer the first time that the Government agreed to it and the Regional Government accepted it, that there was a special concern for the specific treatment of that region and it was said that there could be a tax, contribution, economic solution specific to the Third Island and also to the Autonomous Region of the Azores. So no one is at all different from this problem, the government is attentive and concerned. Today, the important thing — and the draft resolution that we are presenting itself — was that we could all have a common front for what is necessary and it is important now: to negotiate with the United States, to have a return, to have the obligation and to make the United States assume a clear position to sacrifice the Azores in all areas, taking into account what the unilateral consequences of their decision are. On this point, I have seen the same will in all parliamentary groups. With this will, too, we will say that we are clearly available to withdraw our draft resolution as it is and to try to find a common platform in which all parties, not only the parties, but also all the entities involved, so that we will walk according to a single result, which is to have a firm negotiating position and that the resolution on the position of the Portuguese State in relation to the United States is good. They count on us for that, because we'll be available. We do not want to subscribe to a victory, we want to subscribe to the positive outcome for the country, for the Autonomous Region and, necessarily, for all those involved. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u21	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1029 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel — Entre-os-Rios ) ( BE ), 1031 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN326 between Arouca and access to IP1 / A1 in Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ), 1032 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( BE ), 1011 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of supplementary route No 35 ( IC35 ), launch Penafiel — Entre-os-Rios, and variant Arouca — Santa Maria da Feira ( PS ), 1369 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ), 1370 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Conclusion of the variant to EN222 ( PCP ), 1376 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government advance with the construction of the IC35 between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios ( CDS-PP ), 1378 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the completion of the construction of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ), 1380 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Valuation of the industrial zone located on the road axis constituted by the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca through their connection to the A32 and A1 ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1381 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the industrial area of the lavagueiras, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, through its connection to A32 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolutions of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are going to start now is about the word, the word of those who, in the election campaign, go to the streets, ask for the confidence of people and their vote and then what they do with that confidence and with their vote. at the end of the legislature, all initiatives that in particular motivated draft resolutions of all banks were already promised by this government, the previous government and even other previous governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u24	In fact, what we have to debate today is the lack of a word from those who soon forgot what they promised the people. In particular, there are three road axes that are under discussion, and they are all justifiable. The connection between Entre-Rios and Penafiel, the variant to the IC35, is very fair. There is no doubt that it has been deserved for decades. It is a solution to create jobs, to solve problems of weakness, the economic motivation of which is justified by covering four municipalities in one penitentiary alone. The variant to EN222, which links Pedorido to A32 is also in itself very fair and a development factor of the municipality of Castelo de Paiva. The conclusion of this variant was a well-deserved promise made by the Government of Cavaco Silva when it was intended to close the Pejão mines. It's been over 20 years! The connection of Feira to Arouca, which once again covers several councils with its interest, is very fair, unequivocal. Again, it responds to the isolation that, either the municipality of Arouca, or the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, have from the point of view of mobility. And, with this, they also promote the development of municipalities such as S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira, Vale de Cambra and Oliveira de Azemés. They are therefore initiatives of meritorious public recognition and the people know, because they feel in the skin, that they are incontrovertible. So my question is, why haven't you left the paper yet? After so many promises, after so many governments were elected, saying that these were their priorities, why haven't they left the role yet? See the paradox: the variant to EN222 between Pedorido, in the industrial area of the Lavaguairas, and A32 is 6 km! And yet, for decades, it hasn't come out of paper. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block did what it had to do: it presented its ideas, it marked this debate and made the Assembly of the Republic discuss this issue with the sole purpose of not returning to the elections only with papers and without anything on the ground. That would be unforgivable. The challenge was launched, all the benches gave their opinions and brought them the debate. I believe that the next step is that a unanimous vote is coming out here so that the government will not reach the end of its mandate without fulfilling the promises. People, I believe, would not forgive this government and each and every one of us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u25	To present the PS draft resolutions, Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolutions Nos 1011 / XII ( 3. ( a ) and 1378 / XII ( 4. a ), presented by the Socialist Party, being approved, symbolizes the collapse of road barriers that atrophy the development of the municipalities of Castelo de Paiva, Arouca and the parish of Lumba, in the municipality of Gondomar. I'm talking about small street segments of less than 10 km, whose crossing torture is forced to pass. when built in a fast-track profile, they guarantee easier, safer mobility, particularly for those who, in a medical emergency, need to be cared for at the hospital of Santa Maria da Feira. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to more and better security in the movement of people and goods, these two works are fundamental to valuing the industrial areas of Pedorido, the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, and Escariz and Mansores, of the municipality of Arouca, making them more attractive, more competitive and more job generators. With these gains, social and territorial cohesion can still be strengthened in these two councils which have recently suffered a worrying demographic fall. It is unacceptable that people from the municipality of Arouca, which is integrated in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, take more than one hour to travel by car from their residences to the city of Porto. This reality is incomprehensible, since works have been permitted for decades and continue to be stopped in the offices of the Land of Peace. The arouchans and the parivans don't make megalomanian demands. The arouchens are not asking for a metro line that reaches Arouca, they are asking, uniquely and simply, to build a small daily piece with less than 10 km. The same claim is made by the parivans. as a member elected by the district of Aveiro, natural and resident in one of the peripheral parishes to these two municipalities, I am witness and protagonist suffering from this intolerable situation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, considering that the Arouca-Feira variant is included as a priority investment in the Strategic Plan for Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020, the Assembly of the Republic should recommend to the Government that it determine, together with the Stradas of Portugal, the urgency character in its implementation and at the same time that it calls for the immediate preparation of the project of the execution of EN222 of Pedorido, in Castelo de Paiva, Canedo, in Santa Maria da Feira, and to include this investment as a priority in the Plan I mentioned above. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u27	To present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals presented by the CFP today respond to the needs felt by the populations of a set of municipalities in the districts of Porto and Aveiro that have been successively claimed by these populations and also by the autarchs of these municipalities. These claims are fair, especially since the construction and completion of these road axes are promised for several years by the PS, the PSD and the CDS. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the comprehensive construction of the IC35 is an ancient and fair aspiration of the populations of the Sousa and Lower Thame Valley, which is essential to meet mobility needs as well as to overcome structural delays and enhance the development of one of the poorest regions of the European Union. Despite the numerous electoral promises in this regard, both the PS and the PSD and the CDS, their integral construction has been, in an unacceptable way, successively postponed, and isolating even more a region of the country already of difficult access due to its location. For more than 30 years the need to build an alternative way to EN106 has been discussed, which has long ceased to be a real mobility solution. EN106 is a route with a high volume of traffic, incompatible with the conditions it offers for circulation, with high sinequality, with a sinuous route, without sealing and in it coexisting local motorized transit and of medium agricultural and pedestrian course, even being a martyrdom for these populations the circulation on that route. The Vale do Sousa and Basso Thamega region has an economic and social reality marked by unemployment and poverty that needs to be combated. Thus, the integral construction of the CI35 will have a significant impact, and it can be crucial for the development of the local economy by enabling an increase in accessibility, a greater ease of flow of products, thus helping existing productive activities and enhancing new ones. It is also important to mention, in order not to be forgotten, the commitment made on this subject by several political leaders during the tragedy of the fall of the Hintze Ribeiro bridge in Entre-Rios in March 2001, a tragedy that dramatically affected these populations. Almost 15 years after the Assembly of the Republic had approved a draft resolution which, among other measures, recommended the urgent construction of the IC35, the truth is that until today neither PS, nor PSD / CDS, have complied with it, relegating a fundamental necessity and a right of the populations of the Sousa Valley and the Low Themega. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is also urgent to reach the conclusion of the variant to EN222, between Pedorido and Canedo, a length of less than 10 km. This work has been stopped for several years, constantly postponed by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, which is of great importance to improve accessibility and to respond to the mobility needs of these populations, and it is also fundamental to the dynamisation of the local economy, especially in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva. The populations and the autarchs of the municipalities covered by this construction have already expressed their dissatisfaction with the successive postponements of this work, as well as with its uncertain future. And the limited extension of construction leaves no room for any economic justification to escape the fulfilment of the commitments made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These demands of the people, dissatisfied with the delays in these fundamental ways, are very fair and are translated into the proposals that the CFP brings here, by which it is required that what has been promised is fulfilled and that, without further delay, the full construction of the IC35 and the construction of the variant to EN222 is completed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u31	To present the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP and PSD, Mr José Ribeiro and Castro have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CDS Parliamentary Group, none of these investments in these works deserve less discussion as to their need. It is known that they are necessary and we fully support the feelings of the people who claim them. Therefore, we present a draft resolution itself, draft resolution No 1376 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), and, together with the PSD, draft resolutions 1380 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and 1381 / XII ( 4. ( a ), the first reference to IC35—is known that EN106, between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios, is completely exhausted—and the second concerning the benefits of the connections of the municipalities of Arouca and Castelo de Paiva, to the variants of EN326 and EN222. Quite simply, contrary to what the Left Block Member has said here, we believe that the problem is not speechless, it is lack of money, unless the Left Block Parliamentary Group is with the safes full! Open... [[BE's laughs.]] It is that there is no public work, there is no public improvement, there is no public investment that, for the Left Block, cannot be done now! There's plenty of money on the left block bench! Open... [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u33	I'll explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u34	Therefore, with the sense of responsibility that we have, the limitation we have in our resolution is that these interventions are made in order to safeguard that investment is carried out in a balanced way and corresponds to the financial possibilities of the country. And why is that? We believe that we must all have learned that the deficit is not a solution. Financing with deficit is not the solution, financing with deficit is the problem. In fact, it was the problem that was generated; and, therefore, we had some delays in improvements that should be made in schools, on the roads, in hospitals, you name it! Therefore, I cannot fail to comment on the Socialist Party's draft resolution, in particular on the improvement of Castelo de Paiva, with the conclusion of the variant to EN222. It says: « With almost a decade's delay, the variant to EN222 remains unacceptably to be built, compromising the development potential of the populations it should serve ». And I thought to myself: we are in March 2015 ; now, let me see here, a decade ago, in March 2005, which was the government that took possession? Oh, my God! The Socialist Party! Oh! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u35	Do the same self-criticism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u36	Mr President, if it were not the wrong options — highways without cars, TGVs, PPPs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u37	The PS has done a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u38	... and if they have applied small investments in small improvements of great benefits, such as this or the complementary itineraries that the Coastal Alentejo is still waiting, you can be sure that the country's financial situation would be better and the ability to communicate people would also be much better. Therefore, we agree and agree that these improvements should be made, but with financial realism, with planning capacity and good administrative decision. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u39	To present the draft resolutions that PSD is also author, Mr. Paulo Cavaleiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that today, the country is beginning to grow above the European average, we have better conditions to solve some problems and some of those we are discussing today. But they have to be solved with feasible solutions, because, as my colleague at the CDS-PP said, there must be money to do many of the things that have been promised over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u41	They've got the safes full!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u42	It is true that, in my district, unemployment has come down. Interestingly, the only municipality where this has not happened is in Castelo de Paiva. It is true that in my district we lead many sectors, such as cork, textile, molds, metal mechanics, footwear, etc. It is true that, with the growing exports, the increase in wealth and unemployment, we must ask ourselves: what can we do to accentuate and affirm, increasingly, this record? And what we know is that sometimes with small works, not megalomanian works, not works for which we had no money and at the cost of debt, we can make the difference and greatly improve those that are already the good conditions of the economy of this region. It is true that we must make the most of Portugal 2020, in the light of the rules laid down in the Partnership Agreement, for small works complementary to various public and private investments. This is what we have to bet on, and that is what we are discussing today, with two projects that we present that value the industrial area, on the one hand, on the axis between the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca and, on the other hand, with the connection of the industrial zone of Lavaguairas, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, to A32. But, after hearing here some accusations about lack of speech, especially on the part of the Socialist Party, I do not resist remembering that Eng. José Socrates, on 20 September, one week before the legislative elections and three weeks before the elections, visited Arouca. Leio - here is an excerpt from the news that went out in the press, which says the following: «In the meantime, the band arrived, which encouraged the socialist caravan and announced the arrival of the PS leader (...) accompanied by the president of the Artur Neves House. Arrived to the stage installed on the square and finished the Mass, it was the time(...) » by Artur Neves to use the word and thank José Socrates for his presence. And Socrates reported that he himself ordered the dispatch to the Estradas de Portugal to launch the contest of the Vouga award. What is true is that, after a few months, this concession was no longer to be executed and so far I have a note from the elected members in the municipality by the Socialist Party to demand from the PS Members who, at the time, accompanied the Prime Minister, that the work should be accomplished. This is to promise what cannot be accomplished, three weeks of autarchic elections and one week of legislative elections! What is true is that these works are very important for the development of the region. The link between Feira and Arouca is very relevant and that is what we ask the Government to consider in this proposal. But it is also true that the work already defined by the Estradas de Portugal — and the PS even presented a draft resolution, which is not scheduled for today — is very important for Castelo de Paiva. Finally, after the fall of the bridge and so many promises that everyone has made and that, until today, have not been fulfilled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u43	Including PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u44	...we now have the conditions to take advantage of to connect a very important industrial zone, which can increase the economy and the wealth of that municipality. It is very important for us to build this section of the variant to EN222 because, with this work, the economy will grow. We will bet on this growth and we will improve employment and the creation of wealth. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u45	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard the CDS intervention recently and it seems to me that the time has come to say once again to the CDS which assumes the failures, failures and incompetences of this government. You've been in the government for four years, and the IC35 hasn't come out of the paper! Take it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are six months away from the legislative elections and it would be to expect something else from the CDS and PSD, which, in the last campaign for the legislative elections, went to the Sousa Valley and the Low Thame promise that, with them in the government, the IC35 would come into work. The fact is that we are six months away from the next elections and the IC35 has not yet come out of the paper. So when Mr Ribeiro and Mr Castro hear what he said recently, we must confront him with the following: assume your failures, your incompetences and your failures! We will recall a debate here in this Parliament in July 2012. Mr Luís Vales said, and we are talking about two and a half years ago: « The delay in the work has an intolerable cost for the population ». After two and a half years, is this intolerable cost maintained, Member of Parliament? It is that two and a half years have passed and if this, at the time, had an intolerable cost, now, it has worsened even more, it has a double intolerable cost. Mr Luís Vales also said: "The people do not want late resolution projects, nor cheap demagogy, they want the work, and it is already in progress! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But what is the work in progress? The IC35? He's not out of paper! You've been promising him in the campaign, you've been promising him in these years! Your local leaders, PSD Members, here in the Assembly of the Republic, have been selling a work that has never taken off the paper! Mr. Virgílio Macedo also said in February 2014 : « The construction of this road infrastructure will be a priority reality in public investments to be made by the Government under the new Community support framework ». The Community funds, unfortunately, have not yet come out of the paper and, once again, the IC35 is not! the PSD 2, which is the national PSD, is who governs, it is who decides, Mr. Prime Minister went to Agrival ( Agricultural Fair of the Vale do Sousa ), last year in August 2014, and advanced that still that year would be launched the contest for the construction of the first piece of the IC35, between Penafiel and Rans. We're talking about only 5 km...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u47	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u48	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, we talked only 5 km, we didn't talk about the IC35, between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios. Now, the contest, contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister guaranteed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u49	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u50	...it has not started until the end of 2014 and has not yet been launched. Therefore, it is time for the PSD and the CDS to assume their responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u51	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u52	They assume they don't want to build the IC35! The PSD mask has fallen, the CDS has dropped the mask : with you in the government we will not have IC35!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u53	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u54	They cheated on the populations of the Sousa Valley and the Thamega Basso! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u55	Mrs. Members, Mr José Ribeiro and Mr Castro pointed out to the Bureau that he intended to use the floor but did not have time. Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr José Ribeiro and Castro?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u56	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u57	So you have the floor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u58	Madam President, I know the rules of Parliament and the plenary, but I would like to ask the President and the Bureau a question, at its high discretion and also of the various benches, which has to do with the following: I am aware that we have exceeded our time in 5 seconds and, because of that, I cannot now use the word, nor for 5 seconds, which was the time I needed to respond to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u59	We're sorry! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u60	But the Socialist Party exceeded the time it had in one minute and 55 seconds. Therefore, I do not consider it fair that, since you have exceeded time in 5 seconds, you cannot use 5 seconds more to answer who has exceeded one minute and 55 seconds. That is the point of my request, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u61	Mr President, we must not cut off a practice which has not had exceptions, but raises a question which is an eternal issue and which must be considered at the Conference of Leaders. The Bureau is not always able to control and often occurs because of some distraction, but even when there is no distraction, this problem also occurs. We shall proceed with the debate, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP for a new intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The responsibility for not concluding the variant to EN222 is this government and previous governments,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u63	... the responsibility of the non-construction of the IC35 is this government and other governments and it does not cease to be curious that PS, PSD and CDS come here to submit proposals to request that their electoral promises be fulfilled and those commitments they have made with the populations,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u64	... which actually lets you anticipate that these are projects that don't go through an illusion, because PS, PSD and CDS had the possibility to solve this problem while they were in government and didn't! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u65	Mrs. Members, 15 years ago, I repeat, 15 years ago, was assumed the need for the urgent construction of the IC35.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u66	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u67	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, since there has been talk of safes, indeed, announced by the Minister of Finance, then, instead of handing over the money to the bank, they put it to the service of the interests of the people... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u68	... with public investment and, where applicable, with the conclusion of the variant to EN222...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u69	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u70	... and the integral construction, integral repeat, of the IC35. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u71	Mr Mário Magalhães, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the IC35, the gap between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios, for time saving, I will not talk about the needs—in fact, this afternoon they have been well aware. About security, still last week, there was another death in EN106. On the economy, 100 000 inhabitants, 27 000 users, more than 10 000 vehicles, 1000 trucks/day. This issue has not been new since 2001. In fact, a draft resolution submitted by the PSD, The Greens and the CDS-PP, which recommended the immediate decision-making, with an absolute priority, of the launch of this work of the IC35, was approved by this House in 2001. It's been 14 years! How do some parties, with their responsibilities in this area, have the courage to come forward today with draft resolutions? Oh, my God! I think it's very strange. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u73	For years, they did not attend the city's city halls when they asked for a simple meeting! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] They didn't take 12 autocrats from the region!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u74	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u75	More: it is worth discussing in this House almost three years ago, indeed, it has done three years this month, a petition made in the region, with 10,000 signatures, and the Socialist Party has not even heard the petitioners yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u76	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u77	How is it possible for the Socialist Party to come to the plenary today to defend the IC35 if they didn't even have time to listen to the petitioners? Oh, my God! How is that possible? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that this work is currently in the PETI ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 2014 - 2020 ), the competition has already been launched, and closed, from the first 2 km in EN15 to the start of the IC35,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u78	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u79	... the RECAPE has already been delivered (Environmental Conformity Report of the Implementation Project) and, by summer, the work will be launched, surely.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u80	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u81	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to approve draft resolutions; we need machines on the ground. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect regiment times. If they think that this is not possible, they change. We have the power to do this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. But then we comply with the rules we have on the table. Let us turn to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to enter the « pass-book game ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u84	That you don't have guilt already we know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u85	We already realize that heavy consciousness here goes from PS to PSD and CDS! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is interesting to hear in this matter the CDS intervention using the terminology « full safes»... Well, whoever says there are full safes is Dr. Paulo Portas, it is Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque, it is the Prime Minister! ... after all, it's just propaganda. That's right! We had said well! However, in our draft resolution, we say not only where the money is going to be sought for these works—there is now the new Community package, which can be applied in these initiatives — but also that these works are strategic, they are necessary, they solve the problem of economic development, solve mobility problems, solve problems of road sinequality, solve problems of concepts that are considered by the coast but with characteristics of the interior, because they are isolated from the point of view of mobility. This should be a reason for attention and priority in the choices to put the Community money we are going to receive. That's what the Left Block proposes. We are in this debate throwing blame on each other, as did the majority and as did the PS, but no one, not the PSD or CDS bench, nor the PS bench, can say it's not guilty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u86	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u87	I conclude, Madam President. He said recently that this discussion has taken place since 2001. Since 2001, it has been the PSD with the CDS in the government, it has been the PS with an absolute majority and, again, the PSD and CDS with an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u88	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u89	...and they didn't do anything! That's enough, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's enough! Let's do something for people! Now! Today! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u90	Great concierge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u91	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, we will move to the third item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1094 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete measures to ensure the operationality of medical emergency means ( PCP ), 1307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ), 1375 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the immediate admission of professionals indispensable to the proper functioning of INEM ( PS ) and 1382 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ) and the recruitment of the necessary professionals ( BE ). To present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party begins this intervention by welcoming the representatives of the workers of INEM and the Union of Portuguese Nurses, who are in the galleries to attend the debate. Because the medical emergency has to have a national coverage, it has to be fast and present, always, and respond to the needs and demands of the citizens, the PCP Parliamentary Group brings to the discussion two draft resolutions that solve the problems of the medical emergency. This includes: the hiring of professionals who are missing in INEM — TOTAL (technical emergency telecommunications operator) and TAE (emergency ambulance technician) — in accordance with the Staff Map of the institution for 2015 ; the guarantee of working conditions to ensure the fulfilment of all rights of these health professionals; the strengthening of health professionals for emergency services, for VMER (emergency medical vehicle and resuscitation) and for immediate life support ambulances (SIV) ; the provision to health units of the amounts that enable them to ensure all costs associated with the functioning of VMER and immediate life support ambulances; the harmonization of amounts paid immediately, irrespective of the health units where they are integrated. These proposals, Mr President and Mr President. Members, resolve the problems of the shortage of professionals, pointed out by the representative structures of the workers, but not only of the board of directors of the hospitals – see the latest statements by the President of the Board of Directors of the Barcelos hospital, which points out exactly for these difficulties. These proposals actually allow medical emergency facilities to be operational every day of the year and at every hour. These proposals solve the problems of inoperability of VMERs and SIV ambulances. These proposals allow the calls made for INEM to be answered quickly and there are no calls that remain unattended. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of INEM and the medical emergency are not solved by the imposition of measures, as the Government submitted in April 2014. The order issued by the Government in April 2014 obliging all professionals with medical emergency training to provide medical emergency, regardless of the scale they are providing in hospitals, is a measure that does not solve the problem. The problem of INEM is solved by hiring professionals, valuing their careers, providing human resources and medical emergency materials. These are the proposals we have put forward. These are the commitments that the majority should make today before Parliament and before the country. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u93	To present the PS draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we have discussed several draft resolutions on the situation of the National Institute of Medical Emergency. The INEM, as it is commonly known, is undoubtedly one of the services that honours our National Health Service and that over the last few years has gained almost unanimous recognition of the Portuguese population as a service of excellence that acts in the limited situations, in which the effort of all means is most necessary. There is no doubt that one of the reasons why INEM obtained this status is related to the competence and performance of its professionals and, therefore, he also wanted here, in the representation of the Socialist Party, to greet all the professionals and representatives of the professionals' organizations present here. The best thing that can happen to INEM is that it's not a reason for news, it's that everything works normally and that all the situations that have to guard are resolved for you. It turns out that INEM has been news for some years and often a cover of newspapers. And unfortunately it went through the worst. First of all, because the operational rate of VMER called into question the operation of these cars, leading in some cases to the most dramatic situation—and this was already the subject of discussion—which made the Government once again adopt a measure of deresponsibility, passing responsibility for the training of VMER teams to the directors of hospitals. A mistake, but that's how it happened! In the meantime, after resolving this problem, a new president for INEM is chosen. And from here on, the scissors have changed significantly and always to worse. INEM has become even more and more newspaper cover and always for the worst reasons. We do not want to make the most of Mr INEM's reprehensible attitudes here, either in the case of the exchange of a car crew in Vila Nova de Gaia or in the case of transport of a patient, should have already provided clarification to the country. He did not do so and we are waiting for once again for the investigations. It will be a situation similar to that of the VIP lists, in which we are awaiting investigations after investigations until there is a discharge. That is what we are waiting for, because we have no doubt about the seriousness of the situation. But what is at stake at the moment is the situation of failure of the INEM because of lack of human resources, despite the efforts of professionals who are often in a situation of extreme fatigue and exhaustion, which is serious, not only because of its situation, but also because it calls into question the security of services. Despite this effort at the moment, the situation cannot be maintained, since 168 emergency ambulance technicians are missing and 111 emergency telecommunications operators. But the government has opened only 85 vacancies for emergency ambulance technicians to meet these needs. This opening of contests doesn't solve anything! The situation is so serious that on a visit made by the PS Members to INEM, it has given the courage to be the President of INEM himself to ask for help from PS Members to influence protection to solve the problem of human resources! Open... Now, what we are doing here is precisely to respond to this appeal, not because it is a concern of Mr. President of INEM, but because it is a concern of the country and the situations that INEM is dealing with, we cannot be less attentive. We therefore call on the banks to follow us to adopt these resolutions and to force the Government, at least on this route, to provide the INEM with the resources that are essential for its proper functioning, as we all wish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u95	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today is very important, it is a debate on the medical emergency. It is not every day, not every week, not every month that Parliament debates and pays attention to a key sector in the National Health Service as the medical emergency sector. INEM has a nerve and crucial function in everything about health. Therefore, I also want to take advantage to greet all INEM technicians here present, their representative organizations, for their daily work in helping populations in our country. As I said, INEM has a nerve and crucial function. We know that there is a relationship of trust between the Portuguese population and the INEM and we do not want this relationship of trust to be somehow affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u98	It is therefore our duty, as Members of Parliament in this House of the Republic, to draw the attention of the Government and to propose the necessary measures to ensure that confidence ties between the people and the INEM remain and are even strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u100	It happens that the situation in INEM today cannot continue, is a perfect irresponsibility. More than 200 technicians are missing from INEM services. As has already been said, 168 emergency ambulance technicians are missing — 168, it is good to repeat and repeat the numbers! In relation to CODU (Center of Guidance for Urgent Patients) there are 111 missing technicians. And the Government's proposal for an invitation to tender, as we all know, is far from meeting these human resource needs in INEM. What we have today — and I know - is a safe source — are tired technicians, subject to successive extra shifts, at extraordinary hours which are still not paid — it must be said — that, I repeat, are not paid to technicians who do so, so here we have the objective conditions so that there may be problems, I repeat, in a neurological and crucial sector for medical assistance in our country. This situation cannot continue, there can be no excuses, there can be no lack of financial and human resources to ensure that INEM fully performs its functions and maintains the relationship of trust with the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming all the professionals of INEM here who have always been shown professionalism and competence on behalf of the PSD. Today, we discuss four draft resolutions, two of the Communist Party, one of the Socialist Party and one of the Left Block, which recommend to the Government a strengthening of the human resources of the National Institute of Medical Emergency. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these initiatives are not just late. Its authors simply devalue what much has been done by this Government to strengthen the effectiveness of INEM, in particular in terms of human resources, technical and operational means. Otherwise, we see: still last February, it opened an external invitation to tender for the recruitment of 85 new medical emergency ambulance technicians under an indefinite contract of employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u103	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u104	It was also authorised last January to hire 70 new emergency telecommunications operators for the CODUs of Porto, Coimbra and Lisboa. In addition, 25 more emergency technicians will be recruited, who are the professionals of INEM working in the emergency, particularly in pre-hospital environments. Mrs. Members, the satisfaction of human needs is always an incomplete design, but to deny that the human resources of INEM have been strengthened is simply ignoring the reality and ignoring the effort of this government, which aims to fill needs that are not today and not the responsibility of this government. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we compare the evolution of the number of emergency media activations in recent years with that which occurred in the time of the socialist government, the difference is remarkable. Let us see: the number of emergency medical ambulances in 2010 rose from 120 000 in 2010 to more than 170 000 in 2014 an increase of almost 50 %; the number of emergency ambulances nearly doubled from 393 000 in 2010 to more than 618 000 in 2014. More: the drives of medical emergency motorcycles rose from 1500 in 2010 to more than 9000 in 2014 i.e. 6 times more, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Members of the opposition, know that the satisfaction of users with the service provided by INEM rose by 70 % in 2012 to more than 90 % in 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u105	So, all the problems are solved? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u106	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. Keep in mind that the operational rate of VMERs rose from 93, 1 % in 2011 to 97, 5 % in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u109	The responses given, the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing means and the measures already taken with a view to strengthening the INEM show the need for the measures to be taken in the proposed recommendations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u110	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 1981 INEM has saved thousands of lives in pre-hospital emergency care. Every day, without exception, their workers deal with extreme situations, with people who, in an instant, see their misfortune knock on them, watch the insensitivity and an ice forming themselves in a profile that hardens and is the INEM, with its competence, with its rapid and highly qualified performance, which does not prevent, more often, that the strictest line is drawn. It is up to us, Parliament, to ensure that the government gives INEM all the conditions it needs to ensure that its services are always delivered with all quality, safety and high success rates. And that's what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u113	It is true that INEM has been endowed with the human resources it needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u114	There's no doubt about it! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u115	at this time, competitions are open and there are candidates in the evaluation phase or waiting for publication in Diário da República. On the other hand, on the emergency means of INEM, which have various levels of differentiation, is being done through the Office No 5561 / 2014 of the Deputy Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, the integration of emergency means into the multi-purpose emergency services, medical-surgical emergency services and basic emergency services, always acting in a logic of complementarity and integrated management, which benefits the SNS and, above all, users.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u117	A proposal is also being worked out to standardize payments to doctors and nurses who are part of the medical emergency teams. And let us not forget that an increase of 2, 5 % of INEM's revenue from insurance contracts has been approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u119	... thus ensuring the objectives of the Mission Charter 2014 / 2018, in particular in the implementation of new medical emergency facilities, acquisition of equipment and hiring of personnel. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Honestly, it is not worth entering great demagogy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u120	Not even small!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u121	...because even more than the extreme left, the PS speaks in rupture, extreme tiredness, serious situation and security concerned, in fact, only helps in the newspapers. So try to get promotion in the heart of others’ distress! [[PS and PCP protests.]] When what is at issue is one of the state bodies which, par excellence, deal with daily dramas of people's lives, saying that INEM has no human means or ambulances to operate, which is false, it is not advisable to do so. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] The gentlemen. Members cause unnecessary alarmisms in people and do so with those who are most fragile and vulnerable and who cannot, in any way, be attracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u122	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u123	Besides, it is unfair, it is very unfair to the INEM workers, who do everything, with very high quality, to save lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I want to say that we trust INEM and we are sure that the Portuguese also trust INEM. It is thanks to INEM that thousands of cry of help are answered and that thousands of lives are not far from us. For this reason, to all its workers, to all of them, one by one, individually considered, that the CDS respects so much, we address our thanks very much. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD and the CDS : We have tried to make a serious debate here about a fundamental sector, which is that of medical emergency, and we do not want to deal with this problem either with small or large demagogy. What is at stake is the human resources of INEM and, against figures which have been expressed here, the Members. Members cannot say that INEM's technical framework is complete. In fact, Mrs Paula Gonçalves came here to speak in a competition for 85 technicians, but I remember that 168 are missing! It's just making the bill! [[PSD MP Paula Gonçalves protests.]] Who brings here demagogy saying there are 70 here and 20 more there are the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm so sorry! What is at stake here is neither alarmism nor anything; it is a very serious debate about the situation of medical emergency services. And there is only one possible answer: the tables must be complete, there can be no lack of 50, no 30, no 20, no 100, no 10! That is what we are dealing with, it is a position to recommend to the Government that once and for all fill the necessary frameworks for the proper functioning of INEM. It is a highly responsible discussion and it is not alarmist, because this discussion is to be held now, not later, when problems arise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u128	Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who flees and denies reality is PSD and CDS-PP. It is that 938 ambulance and emergency technicians ( TAE ) and 296 emergency telecommunications technicians ( TOTE ) are planned in the framework of INEM 2015 staff. However, only 770 TAE are at work, which means there are 168 TAE missing, and 111 TOTE are also missing. Therefore, who is denying reality are the PSD and CDS-PP, to once again take forward the narrative that the country is better. The country is no better, the medical emergency needs answers, and one answer is the appreciation and hiring of these professionals. Mr. PSD's deputy says the PCP is an alarmist. So, how does it classify the statements of the President of the Board of Directors of Barcelos Hospital, which says that it does not have the scales of the VMER (emergency and resuscitation medical vehicles) filled out because it does not have professionals, because it does not have doctors, does not have nurses? Oh, my God! Are you an alarmist?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u130	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u131	Who's an alarmist? It's not alarmism, it's reality! And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this reality is only solved by the measures proposed by the CFP herein: the hiring of professionals in need.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u133	The resolution of INEM's problems is, in fact, a breach of right-wing politics, defeat of this government and when, in fact, a patriotic and left-wing government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u134	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u135	... that values health, that values the response of the medical emergency in Portugal and health professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u136	With no further inscriptions, here ends the debate on the third item on the agenda, so we move on to the next point, which is the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 792 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September ( Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ), strengthening the democratic management of institutions ( PS ), 828 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ( CFP ) and 831 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS brings to the discussion today an amendment to the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions (RJIES) with a view to strengthening the democratic management of schools. Indeed, two days ago we celebrated the Student Day, a remarkable day in the association movement and in the history of the democratic management of higher education institutions, recalling, in particular, those who in 1962 demanded the celebration of this day, and, after five years of the entry into force of the RJIES, it is time to be able to consider what was possible to achieve with the existing regulatory framework, and in particular to drink the good results of many institutions that adopted to strengthen democratic participation in school management. It is true that we are waiting for wider RJIES review initiatives and the government has already announced them several times about other matters, but we think that there is no problem in moving ahead with a matter that can make progress, extending to all institutions in the country what is already being practiced in many universities and in many schools. In particular, I refer to the strengthening and ensuring the participation of non-teachers in the management bodies, the possibility of ensuring the associations of students representation, although through a presence without the right to vote, because they are also representative and relevant in the lives of each of the schools, but also ensuring the existence of a body that can assist the principals, the presidents of the institutions, the directors of schools and faculties in day-to-day management, being representative of all those who make up the lives of universities and politicians, i.e. teachers, employees, students and also representatives of civil society who must continue to be involved. Therefore, over five years on the approval of the RJIES, it can be found that it is perfectly possible to enshrine this in the law and go beyond what has been done for five years, reintroducing several mechanisms that value three fundamental axes of school management: internal democracy, the enhancement of the processes of participation and also the strengthening of pluralism in these same bodies, which have greatly benefited from the presence of elements external to the institutions, because they have been able to make a more efficient link with civil society and the recipients of that which is their work, and in this respect we see no reason not to continue to deepen it internally, through the intervention of the various bodies that make up each of the institutions. And, I repeat, it is something many institutions have already done over several years, so we see no reason not to extend it to the whole universe of higher education. Other projects are also under discussion, some of which we cannot fully follow, which also bring valuable ideas about strengthening the participation of men and women in schools and universities, and that is why these initiatives are also to welcome, but we will have the opportunity to talk about them during the debate. This is therefore another opportunity to qualify democracy in higher education institutions, giving more opportunities for participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u138	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of the imposition of the Law Regime of Higher Education Institutions by the PS Government in 2007, we stated that, far from responding to the needs of the public higher education system, the RJIES represented a profound attack on the autonomy and democracy of the institutions. After eight years, reality confirms the concerns and criticisms of the PCP. The RJIES opened the way for the privatization and mercantilization of the institutions, forcing their operation and management as if they were mere companies, diverting them from their fundamental objective of teaching, training, research and quality science, to serve the country's development needs. The RJIES introduced serious limitations to the autonomy of the institutions, removed students and staff from their management bodies, preventing the democratic and participatory management of the institutions, as enshrined in the Constitution, reduced the number of students in the bodies and created a student provider, which is no more than an attempt to replace student associations, yes, the legitimate representatives of the students. It was also the RJIES that established a foundational regime, corporating the intention of privatization of public institutions, either in the logic of managing student support services, or in the logic of deresponsibility of the State in public funding. And the ideological objective is evident in the facilities and flexibility guaranteed, in particular in financial, heritage and personnel management, which is inseparable from the direction of deresponsibility of the State in relation to higher education led by PS, PSD and CDS in the decades of political options for de-investment and under-financing of the institutions, thus hypotheting an important factor in the development of the country. This diploma has, and continues to deserve, the strong opposition of the CFP, because everything it foresees means the privilege of business, the mercantilization of knowledge and teaching and the perpetuation of inequality in access to a fundamental and constitutional right, the right to education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this bill, the CFP presents proposals that concern two essential issues: the repeal of the foundational regime and the defense of the organic autonomy and democratic management of the institutions. We propose the elimination of the foundational regime, by promoting the breakdown of institutions and the division of organizational units, and we propose the hiring of teaching and non-teaching staff taking into account the needs of institutions and not the budgeting that each institution must respect. with regard to democratic management, we propose: the guarantee of true autonomy to institutions in their organization and management, eliminating the limitation of hiring teaching and non-teaching staff; the guarantee of democratic participation and management required by the Constitution, involving teachers, students and employees and placing students and teachers on parity in government and management bodies, creating a new advisory body of management, the assembly of representatives; we repeal the figure of the director and propose as the executive body the governing board. We also propose the guarantee of participation of representatives of the community outside the institution and we propose a model of unitary higher education based on the appreciation of the university and the politician, in particular in the forecast of the possibility of the institutions of polytechnic education to be able to confer the degree of doctor, the elimination of tips and the strengthening of support at the level of school social action. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u140	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy is not just an idea, it is an objective, it is a assumption and it is a concrete practice. The objective of this bill is to strengthen democracy in higher education institutions in Portugal. Our bill is part of a balance sheet and progresses with concrete proposals. In the name of participation, we want the law to ensure the presence of non-teachers, employees, general councils and senates, which is not guaranteed by law today, and most of the elements of higher education institutions consider that this participation is of course valuable. On behalf of the representation, we want to strengthen the composition and participation of students. Without employees and without students, the organs will always be reduced in their representativeness. On behalf of the quality of the democratic government of higher education institutions, we want to ensure technical and legal support for the members of the General Council. In the name of the plurality and balance of this democratic government, we want to establish the mandatory existence of a Senate. In the name of equality and a dense democracy, we propose for the first time in this Parliament that gender equality be enshrined in the lists for the general council and for the Senate. Actually, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1986 women have been the majority of higher education students. More than 50 % of students are women, 60 % of graduates are women, most doctors are women. However, a national survey submitted in December last year revealed that at the level of general councils 70, 4 % of teachers' and researchers' representatives are men. This inequality is damaging to democracy. If we understand a practical practice by democracy and if the density of democracy is related to the quality of representation and the intensity of participation, then we must do something about this deficit of equality and representation. Without parity there is no full democracy, even though parity is obviously not enough to guarantee this democracy in its entirety. As is the case in the country, the principle of equality in universities, higher education institutions, seems to us a step in the right direction, an affirmative policy against inequality, and we have the sincere expectation that this proposal deserves support in all banks. Finally, against the unacceptable hierarchy between institutions introduced by the founding regime, which was — let us remember! — an instrument of blackmail in financing, we defend a public network, with rules of public law, with multi-annual funding, with financial autonomy, which is, in other words, a constitutional duty, thus eliminating the foundational regime which is now enshrined in the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u142	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The publication of the RJIES was an important part of a reform of higher education and we believe that this recognition should be the starting point for this debate. With its weaknesses and virtues, the RJIES helped the institutions to affirm themselves, regulating their constitution, the functioning and competence of their bodies and, very important, also regulating the role of public supervision of the State and the framework of the autonomy of educational institutions. After more than five years of its publication, it seems equally clear to us that the evaluation of what was the implementation of the RJIES must be done. This is what is provided for in the legislation and that is what the government has done, listening, since the end of 2012, to the institutions, various actors in the sector and personalities in the area of higher education. The result of this hearing was clear: a law of this kind, which assumes the status of a law of the basis of higher education, must have great stability in time. That is, the model of organization of higher education institutions cannot be subject to changes and adjustments from 5 to 5 years, with the risk of these being an instability factor. This is a position we agree with. We should evaluate the RJIES, diagnose its problems and reflect on its potential for improvement, but we should also be careful in the inclination to legislate successively and only proceed with changes when the diagnoses are consensual and the debate is extended enough for the steps to be taken to be firm. This position does not imply that we do not share the concern of the PS. We also think it is important to put on the agenda a dimension that is linked to strengthening the quality of democratic management. We do not devalue the relevance of this debate, quite the contrary, but we believe that the PS bill suffers from two fundamental shortcomings that harm its purpose. The first one we have already said is that legislation such as RJIES has to be a factor of stability and the commitment to assess its implementation should not be confused with the obligation to amend it. The evaluation of its implementation was made, leading to the decision at this stage not to make any changes that could, by correcting weaknesses, have, firstly, the negative effect of stabilising the internal organisation of the institutions. The second failure in the PS proposal is that the current draft of the RJIES does not hinder the strengthening of democratic management of institutions. In other words, higher education institutions have their own statutes that can provide for the existence of other advisory bodies. This is what happens to some institutions, which have created these advisory bodies within their autonomy, and it was not necessary to change the RJIES for these bodies to exist. In other words, the strengthening of democratic management of institutions has taken place on the initiative of the institutions themselves, through legally enshrined autonomy. That is why there is no way to escape the evidence that the PS proposal, being well-intentioned, falls into the trap of, wanting to make the institutions more democratic, being willing to make them less free and less autonomous, imposing on them a model of organization that may be against what they consider necessary to carry out their mission. Therefore, we affirm our readiness for the enlarged debate, recognizing the issue of democratic management, but we believe that the debate should never be done in accordance with the terms that the PS proposes, because its solutions represent, such as the solutions of the PCP and BE projects, first of all, an imposition and a regression in the autonomy of higher education institutions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, for respecting the time available, which is very interesting at our meetings. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is that this is a very important debate to be held in this House. The debate on RJIES is a debate that is relevant and useful and must be held with time and total serenity. in fact, the RJIES has not been in force for five years, it has been in force for eight years, but unfortunately, in many institutions it has only been implemented for three years. That is why we should respect the opinion of the CNE, which has already said that stability is needed in the system, it is now necessary, after several years of experience, to start studying what went well and what went wrong later to correct and change what was the proposal-bander of former Minister Mariano Gago, who had several defects but also had many virtues. That is why we say that the PS proposal sins because of a fragility that distances us from it: it reduces to a minimum of 5 % the representation of external personalities in institutions and that is to close the institutions of higher education. The proposals of the EB and the CFP bring down the raising of institutions to the government. It is to acquit its autonomy, it is the stumbling block to the autonomy of the institutions, even though, in the speech, they try to make it appear the opposite. It is also to kill the minimum representation in the institutions of external personalities, is to close the institutions to civil society, businesses, individualities, to whom we all owe a tribute for the dedication that, in recent years, they had towards the general councils of the institutions,... [[PCP protests.]] ... taking up their time without losing the notion of their responsibility and fulfilling with complete devotion the role they have been asked of them by the institutions throughout the country. That is why we owe this tribute to these personalities. The PCP proposal ends with the student provider. This doesn't make any sense. Experience is precisely the opposite. The student provider was the conciliatory element between students and institutions, which has done much to improve the quality of relations in institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u146	Do you know who the Student Provider was in Coimbra? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u147	Finally, the CFP proposal aims, for example, to end the consortia, to prevent the merger of institutions or partnerships between them. Nothing more disconnected from reality! In this way, it is not intended to change the higher education network in any way and the higher education network must be adjusted to reality by the institution's own choice, through consortia, aggregations or mergers, in fact, what in each region is the most symbolic, the most effective and, above all, what best responds to the needs of the higher education network, which improves the efficiency and quality of the institutions and their relationship with the environment around them and with the answers that are needed. That is why we do not follow these proposals, defending, yes, a planned, mature reform, not six months from next school year, in a hurry, as these seem to want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u148	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u149	I'm done now, Mr. President. Higher education and the system need stability, they need no further disturbances, they need, above all, to discuss among all — politicians, universities, government and political parties — the reform that needs to be done, but with maturity and stability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u150	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this discussion, we have a disagreement with the right-wing benches and we have also had it with the Socialist Party in the past. We understand that universities, in order to fulfil public service, must be managed by public law and by the logic of the public good and there are those who understand that universities must be foundations to function by market logic. It's a difference that's inundable. We also have a difference of sensitivity. You think this debate destabilizes higher education institutions and we understand that it is precariousness, cuts in scholarships, school dropouts that are destabilizing higher education institutions. But there's a diagnosis. The law is 2007, a few years have passed, there is a diagnosis that is made and I have not heard a single word about a specific data of this diagnosis: most students in higher education are women and more than 80% of the organs are made up of men. Doesn't that make them want to do anything? Oh, my God! Are we gonna stand still? Are we going to be insensitive to this democratic deficit? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was time for us, around concrete things, to take steps in this House to move forward for democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u152	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u153	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, to withdraw or deny autonomy is to prevent the hiring of teachers and non-teachers in higher education institutions, to deny funding to these institutions and to push them into privatization. The proposals presented here contravene the degradation of teaching function, the lowering of the role of academic bodies vis-à-vis external entities, the subjugation of commercial interests, transforming education into a business and deresponsibility of the State to guarantee a pillar for the development of the country and a constitutional right. We reaffirm here the defence of State responsibility for public funding for higher education. The government pays debt interest seven times as much as it transfers to public higher education, and so the priorities of the PSD/CDS government are very well defined.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u154	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u155	in general, our proposals aim to provide a legislative response to what is envisaged in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the basic law of the education system, taking into account the role that both university higher education and polytechnic higher education have in the system but also defending a unitary view of the higher education system that aims, yes, to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese people, the economic growth of the country and its social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u156	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is at least one point which is consensual, which is the importance of this debate. But in the light of the importance of this debate, Mr President. Mr Duarte Marques and Mr Inês Teotónio Pereira, I do not resist stressing one thing: we waited four years patiently for the government to do its homework and trigger the RJIES review process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u158	At all the meetings where the Minister was present here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we asked when the revision of the RJIES and we waited as long as possible until we started with this debate. Let us not now accuse ourselves of, at the end of the parliamentary term, presenting a measure for which we have always called for the Government to step out! But I would say more: it is not a matter of abating autonomy here. We do not want to eliminate autonomy, but being autonomous in order to be less democratic is something that we do not think is most appropriate. We want to strengthen internal democracy and that means to mark and allow all institutions to extend what many have already done, and this is precisely the result of the balance sheet we have made on how these years of application of the RJIES have taken place. Mrs Diana Ferreira, the student's provider was positive in many institutions. It may not be ideal at all, but it represents an advance for students and we should not throw it out. The question of foundations does not represent the end of the world or the privatization of higher education. The problems are not there, as Mr Soeiro correctly pointed out recently. Also closing the institutions completely to civil society, as they propose in your project, does not seem appropriate, because there was also a greater value in the construction of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u159	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u160	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, if it is true that we cannot follow the project of the Block on the Foundation, because we have different views, it is true that our agreement—it would emphasise why it is important— either on the issue of gender parity, which is fundamental to what numbers reveal to us about the disparity of representation of men and women in higher education management institutions, or about legal support for members of the Management Board, which, in fact, have to be tied up and must have the means to make a good scrutiny. Therefore, if this is possible, in the specialty, your proposals will have our support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-26.u161	We have concluded here the last item on our agenda for today. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: in point 1 the general discussion of the proposal for a law No 289 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of State institutional advertising campaigns as well as the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies; in point 2 is the joint discussion, in general, of the proposed legislation No 306 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the process of recognising the situation of the rustic and mixed building without known owner that it is not being used for agricultural, forestry or silvopastoric purposes and the registration of the building which is recognised as such in accordance with Article 9 ( 2 ). the Law No 62 / 2012 of 10 December, 307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the land structure and 304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 86 / 95 of 1 September adopting the basic law for agrarian development; point 3 contains motions for resolutions No 99 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Mexican States in the field of Research and Combating Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, signed in Mexico City on 16 October 2013 and 106 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Equatorial Guinea signed in Lisbon on 15 May 2014. Finally, at the end of the debate, there will still be the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 10 minutes.]]
