ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted, Bill No. 307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the land structure, which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda is the general assessment of Bill No 290 / XII ( 4 ). (a ) — lays down the basis for the legal regime for the disclosure and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area. To present the bill, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than a country with geological resources parks, Portugal has been a country that does not sufficiently explore its geological potential. The exploitation of industrial mineral resources generates around EUR 900 million annually and is responsible for around 9300 direct jobs in more than 500 companies. This is a relevant value, but our potential clearly transcends it. in the context in which we find ourselves, translated by a high potential and insufficient exploitation, special attention should be given to the theme of metallic minerals. For many years, only three mining concessions have been operating, with an economic weight of 0, 3 % of GDP, ensuring 5000 jobs. however, not only is a national potential for metallic mineral resources that can reach 1 % of GDP and 25,000 jobs, such as this one is especially relevant in critical minerals and important minerals, such as tungsten, antimony, tantalum, iron, manganese, copper and quartz. On the other hand, there is significant dynamism in the sector, with more than 130 exploration and research contracts being awarded in recent years and mining, hydrocarbon and hydromineral resources are being granted. Recently, the fact that it had not occurred for more than 30 years has been signed the concession of a new mining area, the Parsana, adjacent to Neves Corvo. Mining promotion, provided that properly linked to the preservation of environmental and heritage values, represents an opportunity for growth, employment and territorial cohesion, contributing to the fight against the depopulation of the interior. But this potential can only be explored if structural reforms are implemented which have been beyond obstacles with us for decades. For this reason, the proposal we are discussing today, based on the law of the discovery and exploitation of geological resources, together with the approval in 2012 of the National Strategy for Geological Resources, assumes a relevant role for the promotion of a dynamic mining sector, which captures and realizes investment and promotes sustainable growth, in the economic, social, environmental and territorial levels, ensuring return and employment to the communities where it is inserted. The review of the legal framework of the sector is essential so that we can achieve these objectives. The current legal framework dates from 1990. The evolution of technical conditions, the necessary economic, social and environmental sustainability of exploration and exploitation activities and the increasing importance of these natural resources, as national heritage to be valued, make it essential to review existing legislation. Therefore, the bill we are discussing today makes changes both conceptually and operationally. in the conceptual plan, the bill adopts an integrated view of geological resources, focusing not only on exploitable resources, but also on other natural goods with geological and mining interest, with a view to their preservation and conservation, and which are not covered by other protection regimes. It is recalled that the 1990 legislation saw resources only in view of their economic exploitation. The proposal also enshrines a new model for the implementation of public policy for geological resources, which is expressed through sectoral programmes, integrating geology into the discipline of spatial planning. in the operational plan, we highlight the strengthening of communication with entities with competences in related regimes, the creation of a new type of rights on the geological resources of the public domain — designated by previous evaluation — and the linkage with the regime of maritime spatial planning. The 25 years of application of the 1990 legal framework demonstrate the need for articulation between the various entities that pronounce themselves on the viability of a project. Let us remember the cases in which environmental, heritage or land planning constraints were detected in very late stages of the procedure, when the promoters had already made high investments and an expectation that the project would move forward. Therefore, the bill establishes, at an early stage of the procedure, a mandatory consultation to municipalities and other entities, including the Portuguese Environment Agency, the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests and the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage. in this consultation, which is advertised online, the entities pronounce on the constraints that may affect the viability of the project. This gives greater predictability and transparency to the procedure: the investor obtains all information about the required area at an early stage of the procedure, while at the same time taking responsibility for the consulted entities. We know that this is an intensive capital activity, so the minimization of the risks of the procedure is important for investment capture. There is also a provision for a new right on geological resources, designated by prior assessment. This right gives its holder the ability to develop studies that allow a better understanding of the geological potential of the desired area, in particular by analyzing the available information and samples. It is intended to give junior companies the opportunity, and therefore smaller, to obtain data and update knowledge without having to carry out very high investments immediately. It also seeks to deepen and update the geological knowledge of the national territory. Finally, the linkage with the maritime planning regime is highlighted, since the proposed law also regulates the development and use of resources located in the maritime area, a reality that was not properly framed. in the coming months, legal regimes will be approved which define the discovery and use of mineral deposits, natural mineral waters, mining and industrial waters and geothermal resources. These diplomas will implement and develop the solutions now proposed. But, Madam President and Mrs. Members, the adoption of this basic law is part of a broader framework of measures adopted by the Government of sustainable exploitation of geological resources. I would like to stress, firstly, the adoption of a more fair method of allocating the revenue of companies, given their impact on the territory and the use of the resources of each region, including geological and mineral resources. On the other hand, in the framework of the Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources (PO SEUR), support for mapping, knowledge and research activities on mineral resources is promoted. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the review of the legal framework of the sector, it completes an important stage of the implementation of the National Strategy for Geological Resources and becomes clearer the role of all: the private sector has to develop viable and environmentally sustainable projects and the State has to play the essential role of regulator and promoter of geological knowledge of the territory. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u5	Mr Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy Management, several Mrs have signed up. Members to put questions to the Minister, in particular the honourable Members. Members Maria José Castelo Branco, Luís Fazenda, Vera Rodrigues, Miguel Tiago and Rui Paulo Figueiredo. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Maria José Castelo Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u6	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Regional Planning and Energy, lives in Portugal, a period of great demand in the ability to select and promote priority areas of action capable of boosting economic growth generating employment. in the Great Plan Options 2012 - 2015, in the National Strategy for Geological Resources — Mineral Resources, of 2012, and already in 2013, in the Great Plan Options for 2014, this relevance leads to the definition of the National Strategy for Geological Resources, recognizing the potentials that this sector represents for the future of the country in the supply of raw material, always seeking to reconcile, sustainably, the economic, social, environmental and territorial aspects, in view of the importance that this sector can / should represent in the national economy, in particular for the export sector. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for captivating investment in the geological resources sector, encouraging and supporting all its capacity to generate employment, which is fundamental to Portugal today! The regulatory legal framework for the now-designated « activities for the discovery and use of geological resources » dates back to 1990, thus requiring a modernisation of the existing dictatorships, taking into account technological developments, new concepts in terms of sustainability, Community directives and successively the highest importance of geological resources in the national and international economies. Mr Minister, I would ask you to clarify a few points which I would like to mention. in this document, in which the role of the State, as manager and regulator of the use of geological resources, is reinforced, what regulatory instruments of this function are pending and for when? How, in the management of geological resources, the interests of extractive character( ornamental, metallic and non-metallic minerals, hydrothermal, water, etc.) will be reconciled And those of a conservationist character? The so-called Geological Resources Fund, who, how and how will it be guaranteed and to whom? This document has undergone a natural improvement and has already included contributions received in the hearings to different entities linked to the sector. Now, in the Assembly of the Republic, in general discussion, is there still an opening for further suggestions to be integrated? This proposal for a law, an element of the National Strategy for Geological Resources, ensures the essential deepening of the geological knowledge of the Portuguese territory, in particular the essential and still incomprehensible geological mapping at a scale of 1 : 200 000 and 1 : 50 000, as well as airlifts (magnetics, electromagnetics, etc. ) Is that what you're talking about? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a serious distraction from the Bureau regarding the time that the honourable Member has used, for which I apologize. It is not the Bureau's intention to create discrimination, but I ask that this does not turn into a precedent, because I could not control time. So I ask you to ask questions to last, on average, 2 minutes. Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u8	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, Land and Energy, has a very peculiar political-legislative technique, which is that of making basic laws and complementary legislation coming after ; that of some has not yet come, this one is announced, and in this case in particular, but also in others, the assessment of supplementary legislation is essential to realize what real and concrete changes the legal regime will suffer. The questions of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities are the following: is consultation mandatory a binding opinion? Is the Government prepared to decentralise this competence in the creation of these administrative contracts with private entities wishing to exploit geological resources? With regard to the opinions of the regional legislative assemblies, both feel that the powers of the governing bodies of the autonomous regions, in particular the shared management of competences with regard to the performance of administrative contracts, and also in what is to be the regionalised administrative services responsible for the administrative implementation of contracts, are not safeguarded. One last question I would like to ask you is the following legislation: will you have a specific sanction scheme? There are very varied problems, which are lateral to these types of contracts, which are hardly understood to have a specific sanction scheme in addition to control elements directed and focused on these processes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u9	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u10	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy, a little in an allusion to the speech of Mr. Bloc de Left, I would like to say that of course the house starts on the basis, on the foundations, and not on the roof. We are therefore faced with a diploma, a legal regime which is the beginning and which will lay the fundamental foundation for a series of diplomas which will complement all the legal framework that this diploma intends to regulate. I ask you, Minister, whether what is available in this legal framework represents a whole difference as to what we had in the Socialist Party. With this diploma, what is intended to be done is to create a clear, appropriate, up-to-date regime that allows investment in new areas, using endogenous resources, natural resources, and not stimulating an investment that, being public, has spent, as we have seen in recent years, the money we did not have. What I ask you is whether or not this framework facilitates and creates or does not create conditions for private investment, whether national or foreign investors, in relation to investment in new sectors of activity. I would also like to ask you, given the resources on which you are helping, or not, to guarantee the principle of balance also at the level of territorial cohesion. It is that, according to what we have read, there is a concern that we cannot fail to highlight, that is this balance between the interest and the economic impact that these types of investments can bring, but also how this new framework helps and enables investments in areas of the territory that are traditionally less attractive or may seem less interesting to investors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u11	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u12	I'm done now, Madam President. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether, from the evaluation you have made so far, there is some estimate of economic impact and job creation, taking into account this legal regime. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u13	The next request for clarification will be made by the CFP. To that end, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u14	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy,'resource parks'? Oh, my God! ... Is it not true that there is a study, conducted by the competent State laboratory, which points to the existence of one to two GDP in the basement and the ground, in the form of mineral resources in Portugal? That doesn't seem very competitive with the idea that they're resource parks, don't play with that idea. Mr Minister, in his speech, tried to show that this is a whole new regime. What you have pointed out as new, in fact, is already either in other regimes or in the regime itself which it now repeals: State obligations from the heritage, scientific, cultural and didactic point of view already fall under the law of heritage; the integration of geology into the planning of the territory is already, for decades, in all the laws governing the planning of the territory. It may be being more or less well realized, it is true, but it is contained in the law. But there are two issues that the Minister did not mention. One of them is that of the repeal of Decree-Law No 90/90 and the consequent repeal of all the diplomas authorized by that law, which leaves us in a void, without knowing what will follow for the rules for the extraction of inerts, of stone, of mines, such as the granting regime, such as the duties of the private. There is another dimension of this bill that Mr Minister has not mentioned either, which is the allocation of a new role to the State, i.e. the state becomes the launching point of economic groups and private groups, i.e. goes forward to explore, to research, to identify where the ore is and characterize the reserves, spend the prospection money and then deliver the concession to the private. The state pays, the private earns! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u15	The next request for clarification will be made by the PS. To that end, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u16	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy, one of the positive points of this proposal is that we lay the groundwork for the legal regime for the revelation and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area, with the economic weight we all know, and that the Minister mentioned, and well in his speech, but also with the problems of all known, associated with concessions, and which it is important, from our point of view, to safeguard. Hydrocarbons are not treated in this diploma and, in our view, this is a gap, because the government had an opportunity here to reconcile hydrocarbons with various regimes, geothermals, minerals, springs. It has also been forgotten another of the most current themes, which has to do with shale gases. This raises the question of when and how the Government will legislate on this matter. Mr Minister, in his speech, said he was going to legislate in the next few months, but we liked — and it is the question I am leaving — that could make a little more density in the sense of saying when and how. We also believe that concerns about the environment are somewhat minimized and we have doubts about the exact compliance and respect for the principles of the Environmental Base Law in some specific areas that we would like to address in the field of expertise. in the same way, we consider that the proposal does not address the geological resources of the private sector of the State. With regard to the sea, Mr Minister, we have some doubts that it is important to dissipate in terms of possible interference in regional autonomy and therefore I would like to ask you a question: does the Minister feel that regional autonomy is fully safeguarded? And what assurances are there of this autonomy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u17	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u18	We also consider, Mr Minister, that in respect of the fees due by acts practiced by municipalities we may have some interference with municipal competences here and therefore we believe that it is necessary to improve and revise the regime. Mr Minister, to conclude — and this question has already been asked by other banks, but the Socialist Party would also like to leave — I would like to ask you if you are available to improve this regime as a specialist. For this work of the specialty it would be useful to send us the seven opinions drawn up by independent entities and which are referred to in the explanatory statement, although optionally, because we were not sent and would be useful in this joint work for which the Socialist Party is available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u19	To answer that, I have the floor of the Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, like to thank all the comments and contributions. I believe that, essentially, we are not faced with major differences and I would like to reaffirm the Government's willingness to have this diploma improved in the field of expertise and power, of course, to densify some of the guidelines that are set out here. I understand that this is a good legislative technique, insofar as it is not possible to point to more action-oriented options if we do not have an appropriate framework before that. That is what we have done within the framework of the planning of the territory and we have already completed the reform of the planning of the territory, in practice, with all the supplementary diplomas. The great novelty which, I believe, presides over this change is a good link between the area of geology and the area of the environment, and this option is relevant to those who want to invest, but also to those who want to protect the territory. We all know cases of projects that have been advancing, with studies and a series of initiatives, and only in the end has there been incompatibility with environmental issues. It is therefore preferable, from the outset, to request opinions from all entities so that there is a predictable framework for such investments. Therefore, we are faced with a much more investment-friendly regime, because there is no worse framework for investment than unforeseeableness and, on the other hand, the Public Administration should not be put under pressure on whether or not a particular project should be approved only because the project has already advanced with much investment. I therefore believe that we are all winning with this spatial planning framework. Secondly, the previous evaluation allows that, even before the exploration and research phase, more preliminary steps can be made with studies that do not involve large investment. And that's more important for our industry. Thirdly, I said, in fact, that more than a country with geological resources parks, Portugal is a country that does not yet sufficiently exploit these resources. Therefore, we agree, Mr. Miguel Tiago. I do not know if you have my speech, but what I said was that, more than a country with resources, Portugal has been a country that does not sufficiently explore its geological potential. So it is not worth being here finding a difference in what is easily understandable. Regarding the questions about the role of the State and the municipalities, the generality of the comments made by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was incorporated in this final version and is not here at issue, under this diploma, a change in municipal or regional competences. on the contrary, the obligations of private individuals with regard to environmental protection are strengthened, and therefore in addition to the regime already provided for in the concession, security and guarantee contracts, that an appeal which is of all not exploited in an environmentally unsustainable manner, the conditions of supervision by the State are reinforced here. In short, it seems to me that we are faced with a diploma that, being able to coordinate, in a more appropriate way, environment, spatial planning and geology, promotes investment attraction and promotes a more sustainable regulatory framework, which places the State in the context of promoting knowledge / mapping. Mr President, we are creating conditions so that the State, having better knowledge of its resources, may have more economic advantage when it is granting these resources, and not the other way around. But in any case, we are available, I repeat, to improve the diploma in a matter which is so relevant. I would like to recall that 30 years ago it was not progressing towards a new exploration and it was this government that managed, within the framework of the Parmana, adjacent to the Neves Corvo, to have a new mining operation. For 30 years we have not moved forward for a new mining operation, so the importance that this government attaches to this sector is well stressed. We hope that, even during this legislature, you can move forward with other projects that are relevant to the territory and, in particular, to the interior. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u21	We have moved on to the period for intervention and have already been registered to the effect of several Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia spoke to the first speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u22	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy Management, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have not asked you any questions, Minister, because I would perhaps like to leave you some comments that the Greens have to make on this diploma. We agree with what the Minister mentioned in his initial speech that this country does not have sufficient exploitation of its geological potential. We agree, of course, with the importance of integrating geology in the planning of the territory, but also here there is no great novelty about what is the legal framework that already exists in this area and we also recognize the importance of integrating in the planning of the maritime space. In fact, what we felt at the time of reading this proposal that the Government brings to the House of the Republic is that there is no support for information which will then have an impact on the necessary regulation that we do not know. That is, it is open here, perhaps, a blank space that is, for us, still nebula, since what remains behind is revoked. The Member of the CDS-PP, in her request for clarification, said that we are talking about the basis of a legal regime and that everything starts from the beginning and will then be building on the basis. The problem is that everything that comes after the base can disturb the base if it does not coadune or distort some of the principles that are established in it. That is why we would like to say that it was necessary, perhaps, to know more of the intentions of the government — perhaps in our specialty we can do this debate — with regard to the content of the rules that are laid down in this legal regime. On the other hand, Mr Minister, there is something that cannot be separated from this discussion and which relates to post-exploration and post-exploration recovery, including necessary acts of depollution, guarantee of security of populations, guarantee of recovery of ecosystems and also of what, for us, has to start to be an essential value in this country and that has to do with landscape recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u23	Reading the bill helps. That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u24	Landscapes have an environmental, social and economic value that needs to be valued. What we know, Minister, is that this I am talking about is nothing new about what is already established in the law and that, of course, it must also continue to be established in the law. The problem is that we know that this is often not achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u25	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u26	I will finish, Madam President. Often more than establishing the law, it is necessary to create mechanisms to ensure that things happen and the lack of human resources for the purposes of supervision and others is something that leaves us with great concerns. I conclude, Madam President, by telling the Minister that it is necessary to heed the negative opinion that the National Association of Municipalities has given and that the autonomous regions have given. in the specialty, we should also focus on these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u27	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, I begin by saying, Minister, that this is a matter that is important and quite consensual, as you have seen. We hope that, in our specialty, we can all approach wills too, because I think there are some absolute truths. First, there has been a lot of change in the perspective of our resources, both national and international. Having such an old legislation does not take advantage of the public interests of defending the heritage of the environment, nor is it so little, as the Minister said, and well, that Portugal has enormous potential in terms of resources. Portugal is one of the main producers of ornamental rocks and has, in geographical terms, resources scattered throughout the territory, which means that it is not something that is concentrated in a part of the territory. I remember the volfrámio mines in Penedono, where we are, at the same time, between the economic interest very relevant to that community or municipality and the need to protect the environment, which is, in itself, an important brand. The Minister has made it clear here that there is concern about compatibility of economic interest, public interest and the environment, since it is necessary to preserve, recover and, of course, to lay down rules that are certain and legal stability so that both the State and the private investor can know what they are going to do. That seems relevant to me. This reform that the government is coming to make is another sign that sometimes there are great differences in the details. I would like to congratulate the Minister for looking into this sector, through a basic law, as it must be, for having very clearly defined what are the tasks of public and private rights on this subject, for having had previous studies...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u29	That's not in the law! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u30	I'm not saying it's not in the law. I am saying that we are improving, updating, modernizing a perspective on the geological resources of the relevant state. Even in terms of thermalism, Portugal has a huge potential, either in the health aspect or in the classic aspect. It's almost all done here, too, but we can go further. We can take more advantage of this resource. And if we go to marine resources, even more! Portugal is far from other countries which, with less exclusive economic zone, with less cost, with less sea take more economic advantage of the sea. We have a long way to go. It would not be to be careful, not to defend the public interest if we did not look carefully at our resources. At the same time, however, we must reconcile this whole national strategy with the interests of the municipalities, involving the state bodies, who have to decide on this matter and have the planning of the territory as the basis and principal premise of this matter. At the same time, we must allow each region to use its resources with public benefit, with environmental and economic sustainability. I believe that is what is being proposed to us today. We would also like to safeguard, in the field of expertise, what could be the misuse of these practices, that the Minister has set a clear example here. Many times, until today, we have been forced to authorize projects that already had relevant investments, because the State has not done its work in a timely manner, but what we are trying to do now — and it seems right to me — is, before the damage happens, to lay down rules on the part of the State and its various bodies and to tell the private what they can use and how they can do so. I believe that this balance and this sustainable way of looking at this matter is quite relevant and, therefore, Minister, we finish our speech by saying that we expect, as a specialist, to make contributions, to receive contributions and to find a balance of sustainability and use of our resources. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u31	They come to present a law with paternalisms, Mr. Deputies! [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u32	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Fazenda for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members: Mr Minister, with regard to what has generally been called the extractive industry in Portugal in recent years, what we have had is the defeat of previous mining holdings—it has already been mentioned here today. We have the example of Neves Corvo, who, with several multinationals, is the realization of a greedy farm, a continuing crime. There was greedy farming for years and years in Neves Corvo, compromising, including the mining potential. We wonder today whether this legal regime brings something new to prevent such circumstances. And, in fact, it doesn't. Bring some directions, it is a kind of commandment: there will be no greedy farming. I ask you about a specific sanction scheme. I ask you for a specific supervision, because for years that did not exist. What existed was tacit complicity with a circumstance that was obviously a continuing crime against natural resources. That is why supplementary legislation is always important so that we can aquilate if the basic law then has consequences and where they exist. It's not worth sticking your shoulders, Minister. These are the realities of our daily life. The question of the National Association of Municipalities has a cabbage. Are the opinions of the municipalities binding or not binding? Are they binding on the conditioners? Are they, eventually, binding on the veto in the rejection of a given project? The government has spoken a great deal about the decentralization of competences. For here is the decentralization of important competence, which is to decide in your own territory what may or may not happen. With regard to the maritime area, with the government bodies owning the autonomous regions, the Minister did not clarify. We do not know where they begin and where they end the competences of the municipalities and where they begin and where they end the competences of the government bodies proper to the autonomous regions. I therefore believe that this debate, which is of enormous importance, will be done in the specialty. Mr Minister, in relation to the exploitation of this set of resources, it is necessary to select these investments in advance. We realize that, in certain circumstances, the burden of capital, technology, etc. , some types of administrative contracts of this kind are necessary to safeguard projects, but an assessment of what is the public interest in many such projects must be made, and not only an economic exploitation at the expense of what is the interests of common goods in general. These aspects are not yet in this basic law, but they are those that can consolidate a perspective. And about this the Left Block really defends the public interest against the mere exploitation of multinationals in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u34	Mr Nuno Filipe Matias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government's mission was clear: while implementing a fundamental adjustment, it sought to develop a reformist path in order to establish a new legal framework that would create new reasons for confidence for economic operators. Wealth, reproductive investment and job creation are not decreed, but the State must be able not to complicate, not create entropies, not strangle the will to innovate and invest. In 2011 we knew that our economy, more than a decade ago, did not grow as it should because the profile of value creation was not the correct one.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u36	And now you've grown up?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u37	Portugal knew and the entrepreneurs recognized that we had gone too long to complicate their lives, exercise and access to their activities, the set of licensing processes that were slow and painful. Therefore, the Government's mission was clear: to create conditions of departure for having a climate of confidence in investors, in the business fabric, which would allow us to create and exploit our potentials, take advantage of our wealth, generate a multiplier effect that would allow more investment, better investment, greater economic growth. Since the beginning of this mandate, the Government has assumed the need to have a new view on the development, use and exploitation of geological resources. This became clear in the Great Plan Options 2012 - 2015, where a new national strategy for geological resources was planned to receive a new vision of funding for the dynamisation of the exploration and attraction of foreign investment for exploitation and to promote sustained growth of the sector, regional development, increased exports and job creation. This was made clear at the time of the approval of the National Strategy for Geological Resources and Mineral Resources, which sought to make the sector more competitive and ensure the supply of raw materials, which would realize sustainability throughout the country, in the necessary balance between the economic, social, environmental and territorial aspects. from there the need to have a new legal framework on this sector that has existed for more than two decades but has not accompanied the evolution of the times in order to ensure full and effective regulation of its activities. Today, we have the wealth and natural resources in the land and the sea, and technological developments, the need to give sustainability, the commitment to the growing importance of these resources, but also the preservation and enhancement of this heritage is a way to bet on maximizing the creation of wealth, sustainability in job creation, but also on improving our exports in the use of these resources. It therefore seems to us that this bill seeks to give the right signs and indications, seeks to benefit the sector, to make it grow and enhance the growth of our economy. We would like to highlight at the moment aspects which are extremely important to us. This diploma adopts an integrated and comprehensive view, focusing on sources of prospecting and exploitation within the framework of the so-called « extractive industry », in response to the interpretation of the Community directives, especially with regard to the valuation measure, in the extractive view, of a heritage we also want to value and preserve. But it also introduces a new type of rights on geological resources — the so-called prior assessment rights — which, as far as the applicant is concerned, enables the possibility of developing studies that allow us to better know and use our geological potential. We also stressed — and even responding to some concern expressed by the opposition in the course of this debate — the strengthening of the articulation between entities, as well as the participation of authorities, and we also value the creation of the fund of geological resources, which allows not only to prevent possible constraints, but also to add predictability in a set of parameters of this sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u38	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u39	I should like to conclude by saying that we want more employment to be improved and that the creation of wealth, especially with the logic that the State, within the legal framework of the defence of the public interest, has a fundamental role: to create conditions for less bureaucracy, less laxity and that, with greater transparency and predictability, we can ensure that we can add investment, value and wealth. I think it's a shared goal by everyone. We want to mobilize Portuguese to add wealth in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill, aimed at updating the terms and conditions under which geological resources are exploited in Portugal, deserves therefore a greeting. However, to make faith in the words of Mr Nuno Filipe Matias, if the current situation was so penalizing it is not understood why it took so long, then, and only at the end of the legislature is that it progresses. We understood that it was not so harmful to the economy, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u42	The PS was also in the government for a few years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u43	But this proposal, by its technical and regulatory density, would justify further consideration prior to today's parliamentary debate. Furthermore, Mr Minister, the in-depth reception that was required was not possible entirely because of the government's fault, which, by violating the rules and respect for democracy, presented this complex law less than 48 hours before this debate. Despite this, we do not want to fail to point out a set of weaknesses. Our first concern is, of course, from the point of view of obvious disarticulation with other legislative pieces, with an impact on the national territory, especially in the national maritime area. And it would almost not be necessary to refer to the law on the basis of maritime planning and management, it is sufficient to mention the development of this same law of bases which, after two months waiting for promulgation, was published only on 12 March, one year after the publication of that law of bases, and that the PS now requests Parliamentary assessment. It should also be noted that the content of the rules of the same basic law and the diplomas complementary to its development is unknown. Then, Mr Minister, there is the enormous fragility of this proposal by referring to the occurrence of hydrocarbons for its own diploma: oil, natural gas, shale gas, almost as if this reality had been driven by the Blessed and it would not be possible that this kind of occurrence could be found in the immense Portuguese sea. I would even say that we have lost the opportunity to give consistency to the legal regime of regulation and the use of existing geological resources in the national territory, reducing this regime only to mineral resources. There are also major environmental concerns. in this area, I believe it is not possible to go back. in the intense and fruitful work that we have developed in parliament about the law that I have already mentioned, the proposed law of bases of the planning and management of the national maritime space, we were together able to strengthen the proposal of the initial law and make a law that gives priority to sustainable, rational and efficient economic exploitation, ensuring the compatibility and sustainability of the various uses and activities involved, in the particular case of the national maritime space. However, the proposed law in question makes us quite concerned about this dimension, especially because it does not even care about inter- and intra-generational responsibility in exploiting geological resources. We don't have to go any further. As regards the environment, it appears vaguely expressed as the fifth of the general principles to which the management of geological resources must obey the preservation of the environment, that is what is and what is referred to in the law. On the other hand, there are great concerns about the involvement of the populations, which I do not look at, especially because we know well the impacts on them that imped on them in this type of activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u45	There is still one aspect which, for many, is central to the period of the concession of the holding with a maximum of 90 years, which, of course, lacks thorough thought and reasoning and which has not been done so far. Of course, there is also the autonomous dimension, which is a dimension that passes through local authorities, and it is important to pay due attention to the position already transmitted by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. But it is also very clearly due to respect for the autonomy and competences of the autonomous regions. Of course I am not going to extend this seat, we will do so - then, in the specialty, quoting passages of opinions issued by government bodies of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and I will not mention, of course, the interventions made by Members elected by the PSD and the CDS-PP. There are also doubts about the fulfilment of the political-administrative status of both autonomous regions, in particular about possible interference in the field of own competences in the fulfilment of joint management and shared management with the regions in marine areas under sovereignty or national jurisdiction adjacent to both archipelagos or even in licensing processes. There are also doubts about the possible unconstitutionality of the diploma, which is, of course, at the heart of our concerns. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my colleague Rui Paulo Figueiredo and I have already been very clear about our position and I believe that the vote of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will have been perceptible. Our doubts are based on our abstention, but it is an abstention that is a sign of openness to an in-depth work in the field of expertise. From VV. Ex.as will depend on our sense of final vote. at this time, as at other times, we are available to work in the specialty to improve in weeks what the government, by the way, did not know or was not able to do in four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u46	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The studies point to the existence of a wealth equivalent to the value of two gross domestic products in metallic and non-metallic mineral resources, deposited in national territory. With the extension of the continental shelf this value can have very significant growths. This means that, with the proper planning and exploitation of these resources, only on the basis of extraction could the country increase its GDP at a rate of about 1 % to 2 % per year over the next few decades. If this planning were to be added the planning and creation of the economic, physical and legislative infrastructure so that the economic row of subsequent mining and industrial transformation would be constituted in Portugal, the wealth produced, the jobs created, the economic and social development, provided that environmental balance is ensured, would be exponentially greater. The current regime for the exploitation of mineral resources in Portugal — Decree-Law No 90 / 90 — essentially considers the same aspects on which the Government's proposal now affects, even though it is presented as a very innovative legislative instrument. Since the beginning of the government announced this priority. After three years, he presented a bill which is, in practice, a copy of what already existed, with some differences, of which we stand out that of the State assumes the role of drummer of economic groups. from the PCP, we have long been alerting for the need of the state to realize a geological mapping of the national territory appropriate to the needs. The end of the IGM, Geological and Mining Institute, by the hands of a PSD government / CDS, Durão Barroso / Doors, represented a rough blow to the country's potential miner and a serious backward development of geology in Portugal. Further, the inability of the LNEG (National Laboratory for Energy and Geology ) to carry out, due to lack of means, this mapping work, with the Governments PS and Socrates, has aggravated the delay to which Portugal was already subject in respect of the realization of a geological mapping appropriate to the exploitation of mineral resources. But the role of the State, for the CFP, cannot be left to the investor for private businesses, as the government now proposes with the allocation of the State's own capacity to lead the exploration campaigns. In other words, the government is responsible to the State for revealing deposits and masses, but does not ensure the return of this effort. It should be noted that the exploration and research activity is the most risky and expensive of all mining or related activities. For us, PCP, evil is not, however, in public investment, but in the absence of the counterparts that this government does not demand. Nor does the government say how it will solve the supervisory problems and we all know that the authorities are not equipped with the means to enforce the law. And we also know the repeated tendency that numerous farms have to circumvent their obligations to maximize their profits. at the same time, the Government does not introduce any imposition of a minimum operating flow, which makes it possible for dealers to exploit the use as far as market price fluctuations are concerned, as far as international markets are concerned, prejudiced to workers and the national economy. Moreover, the Government has no word to say about the constitution of the economic line which could result from the extraction of resources, especially metal. With this regime, what the Government creates, or rather, deepens, because, practically, it does not change the existing law, is a context in which the State invests to deliver to private, mainly foreign, the resources of the country. This is not a new regime, it is the same regime for the delivery of public resources without counterpart, but with less expenditure on the private sector and with new obligations on the State. It is the State at the service of economic groups, the pretext of dynamising employment and exports which will certainly result in scarce or non-existent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u49	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the CFP believes that, within the framework of a policy of valorising national production, one of the fundamental axes of the alternative policy proposed by the CFP to the Portuguese is that it is absolutely necessary to dynamize the extraction and transformation of the country's mineral resources, one of its main riches, which places us, as a country, in an enviable place in front of others. This exploitation has to be done with the aim of raising the quality of life of the Portuguese, of workers, of dynamizing the economy, of generating wealth in Portugal and not, as the Government now proposes, with the aim of unlocking the mineral reserves, one of our greatest riches, to the plunder of foreign economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u50	In order to intervene, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has now spoken on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u51	Mr President, I would like, of course, to inform Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino that, according to the information given to me, the diploma entered the Assembly of the Republic not 48 hours ago, but on 13 March. Regarding the various comments that have been made, I would also like to clarify the Socialist Party's bench, welcoming, obviously, with satisfaction, its sense of vote, but hoping that it will evolve into a favourable sense of vote after the specialty. As I said, I would like to make it clear that the matter of hydrocarbons is dealt with in its own legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u52	Also the thermalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u53	with regard to shale gas, there is no diploma, there is no project, at this time in Portugal, of shale gas and, if it existed, the existing environmental impact assessment legislation would have to be verified. But I must say that we are considering further strengthening legislation on environmental impact assessment so that at a more early stage any project in this area, which currently does not exist in Portugal, can be an assessment target. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt as to the ability and political will of this Government to reconcile the exploitation of resources in a sustainable way. I believe that this is the great novelty of this diploma, which actually improves the 1980 diploma. With regard to the municipalities, there is a strengthening of the power of the municipalities which, Mr. Luís Fazenda, were unable to appear in the initial phase. How many municipal assemblies, how many municipal executives have been delivered to projects on which they were not able to give an opinion, since legislation did not provide for mandatory opinions? I believe that, in this area, municipalities have the right to participate from the outset, and this is a great novelty of this diploma, such as that of the various bodies of the Public Administration, who have the right to issue mandatory opinions, since the initial phase. Secondly, on the question of knowledge, Mr Miguel Tiago, we have here some communication problem about the role of the State because, in practice, there is no consequence that goes in line with what you announced. on the contrary, when the state knows more, it can map more and develop more research, it is able to demand higher royalties in prospecting and share them with local communities and taxpayers. That is why it is important to bet on knowledge, because this increases the capacity of demand in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u54	Of course, but you have to have counterbalances!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u55	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, because it might be the idea that we would be waiting for this diploma to overcome some problems that today have not been fully solved in some cases—and they are! — I would say, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, that environmental liabilities exist by legislation prior to 1990 and today the current legislation already imposes obligations which do not allow such environmental liabilities. For example, the penalty system for penalties in concession contracts is in the framework of guarantees, either in the framework of penalties it offers all the guarantees we need at the environmental level. Now, we are going further to the level of planning, the strengthening of the power of municipalities and the strengthening of knowledge. I believe that we are still in a position to improve the diploma and I sincerely hope that all banks will be able to make contributions so that it will be approved by a large majority in such a strategic sector as this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u57	Mrs Ana Paula Vitorina asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u58	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u59	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u60	Mr President, we have just made a consultation on the website of the Assembly of the Republic, where it is expressed that the admission and announcement of this bill was made on 18 / 3 / 2015, i.e. less than 48 hours from this debate, and I would like to bring the document to Mr. Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u61	But, before, he says that the entrance to the diploma was on the 13th!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u62	The Bureau will, of course, have this document distributed, but I must say that it was not quite an appeal to the Bureau, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u63	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u64	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u65	Mr President, with your permission, I would like the document to be distributed, also removed from Parliament's website, which states that the date of entry of the diploma is March 13. That would not be possible, because, as the honourable Member must well know, if the diploma had entered Parliament 48 hours ago, it could never be discussed today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u66	Mr State Secretary, the Bureau will naturally seek to do this post work, to send their documents either from the PS bench or from the government bank. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion on point 1 of our agenda is completed and we turn to point 2, which addresses the issue of the recovery and treatment of solid waste. We will appreciate, together with petition No 394 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — from the initiative of the STAL ( National Union of Workers of Local and Regional Administration, Public Enterprises, Dealers and Affins ) — In defence of public waste services, the following Decrees-Laws: No 96 / 2014, of 25 June, establishing the legal regime for the granting of public service exploitation and management of multi-municipal treatment and selective collection of urban waste, allocated to entities of exclusive or majority private capital[ Parliamentary assessment No 91 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ; No 98 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 2001 of 10 December, which establishes the multi-municipal sorting system, selective collection, valuation and treatment of solid urban wastes of the Cova da Beira, and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2008 of 21 July, which constitutes the company RESIESTRELA — Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. , as well as the amendment of the statutes of this company [ Parliamentary assessments n. 92 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 108 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No. 99 / 2014 of 2 July 2014 which amends the first Decree-Law No. 89 / 96 of 3 July establishing the multi-municipal system for sorting, selective collection, recovery and treatment of urban solid waste in the south of the Douro and amending the statutes of the SULDOURO society — Valorization and Treatment of Urban Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments Nos 93 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No. 100 / 2014, of 2 July, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No. 116 / 96 of 6 August, which creates the multi-municipal system of screening, selective collection, recovery and treatment of urban solid waste from High Extreme and the modification of the statutes of the society VALORLIS— Valorisation and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments 94 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 111 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 101 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 114 / 96 of 5 August, which creates the multi-municipal system of screening, selective collection, recovery and treatment of solid urban wastes of the Lima and Lower Cávado Valley and the modification of the statutes of society RESULMA - Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments 95 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 106 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 102 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 166 / 96 of 5 September, which establishes the multi-municipal system of screening, selective collection, valuation and treatment of solid urban wastes of the Coastal Centre and the amendment of the statutes of the company ERSUC—Solid wastes of the Centre, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments n. 96 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 107 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 103 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 96 of 5 August, which creates the multi-municipal system of screening, selective collection, recovery and treatment of solid urban wastes of the Mining Valley and the amendment of the statutes of the society VALORMINHO— Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments 97 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 109 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 104 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 53 / 97 of 4 March, which establishes the multi-municipal system for the recovery and treatment of urban solid waste from the south bank of the Tejo and the modification of the statutes of AMARSUL society — Valuation and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments 98 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 116 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 105 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2001 of 23 January 2001 establishing the multi-municipal system for sorting, collecting, valuing and treating urban solid wastes in North Alentejan and amending the statutes of society VALNOR— Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments n. 99 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 115 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 106 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 235 / 2009 of 15 September 2009 establishing the multi-municipal system for sorting, collecting, valuing and treating urban solid waste in the North Central and amending the statutes of the company RESINORTE — Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments n. 100 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 105 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 107 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 109 / 95 of 20 May, which establishes the multi-municipal system for the recovery and treatment of municipal solid waste and the modification of the statutes of the company ALGAR — Valuation and Treatment of Solid Wastes, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments No 101 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 112 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; No 108 / 2014 of 2 July 2014, which is the first amendment to Decree-Law No 68 / 2010 of 15 June, which establishes the multi-municipal system of screening, selective collection, recovery and treatment of solid urban waste in the regions of Lisbon and the West, and changes to the statutes of the society VALORSUL — Valorization and Treatment of Solid Wastes of the Regions of Lisbon and the West, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments n. 102 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 114 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mr Pedro Farmhouse has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 12 are the pieces of the great puzzle of the privatisation of the General Development Company that we bring to Parliament today. I recall that the General Development Company provides an essential public service to the quality of life of the people, for the protection of the environment and public health, and that this process of privatization of the General Development Company comes in the logic of this government's privatization fury, that everything wants to privatize and that it is urgent to privatize. I also recall what has already been said in this House : that the privatization of the General Enterprise of Development, which has participations in 11 multi-municipal systems, forgets partnerships with municipalities and their dual role as shareholder and client, reducing its shareholder position, removing it from the power to participate in the management of larger multi-municipal themes, thus unequivocally emphasizing the democratic desponibilization by the provision of public services of excellence and neglecting the role that municipalities have always had in pursuing and guaranteeing essential and universal services, which have only reached high levels of care and efficiency thanks to existing partnerships and are now at risk. This is also at issue today in this debate in plenary. With parliamentary assessments of the legal regime for the exploitation and management of multi-municipal systems for the treatment and selective collection of urban waste and the legal decrees of the 11 management companies, the Socialist Party wanted to involve the Assembly of the Republic in the decision-making process of privatization, better than the non- privatization of the General Development Company. It is because Parliament today has the opportunity to save this company and to maintain it in the public sphere, approving the 12 draft resolutions for the cessation of the validity of those decrees, which the PS will present. That's why we challenge the whole House! That is why we call all the Members of the Nation! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was on 25 June that, on the basis of other diplomas, the Government published the decree-law, now under consideration, which allows the alienation of the General Development Company, the sub-holding of the Water Group of Portugal for the waste sector. With this initiative, the Government has complied with the express wish to liquidate one of the most important assets that the country is still holding, with the consequences that will come to Portugal and the Portuguese, consequences which are, moreover, being the target of an in-depth investigation by the Competition Authority. Time came to give us reason. It is that the Government, with prejudice to everything that is public, has decided to sell at balance price an asset that is not only a revenue generator as a guarantee of economic and financial sustainability of the Waters of Portugal Group itself. The government dares to undo this asset by EUR 150 million, less than the debts of the authorities to the Waters Group of Portugal have increased. in these conditions, what response does the government offer us? Disclaim your responsibility, sell to the waste, and the problem is solved. That's easy! Governing with these magic passes is very easy! First, with this Decree-Law No 96 / 2014 ; then, with the surgical amendments to the 11 managing entities of the 11 multi-municipal waste treatment systems — the 11 concessionary companies, the 11 public monopolies, constituted in partnership with the municipalities for the collection and treatment of waste throughout the value chain — which miraculously cease to be public undertakings and are held mostly by a single private company. Which municipalities? Oh, my God! There are 174 municipalities involved in the 11 multi-municipal management systems. Which consumers? Oh, my God! What state? Oh, my God! It's all about selling! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this process can be blocked by Parliament today. Come well in time! Let's go a lot in time! Parliament can now put an end to a process without any meaning, especially for consumers, as a result of the escalation of tariffs and not even safeguard the continuity of the quality of public service for the collection and treatment of urban waste. Parliament today can say: "Stop! » a process that neglected the determining role of municipalities throughout the urban waste management cycle. Today Parliament may end a privatisation operation which has not had the smallest involvement of the regulator, wrapped up in statutory amendments and appointment of a new board of directors, with the weaknesses that the CRESAP itself ( Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration ) identified. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the votes of the opposition will not be sufficient to stop the government's liquidated fury. I therefore appeal to the majority to have a trace of consciousness, especially to the social democrats, and to prevent the liquidation of the General Development Company. Now that the safes are full, as the Minister of State and Finance informed us yesterday, and exceeded that it is the amount of EUR 9, EUR 3 billion with the sale of public shares and companies, almost twice as much, which was EUR 5, 5 million with the privatisations provided for in the Memorandum, there is no justification for this option going ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u68	So we see the success of the government's privatisations!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u69	Only ideological prejudice is that it leads to this option. at noon, the Socialist Party confers on the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS have the opportunity to defend the interests of Portugal and Portuguese. Let's wait for the outcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u70	There is no doubt that we will vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u71	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We begin our intervention by welcoming the dynamizers of the petition against the privatization of EGF, dynamized by the STAL, and who are accompanying this debate. We welcome all the subscribers of the petition that we are debating today and we also welcome the struggle of workers, populations, authorities, against the privatization of EGF and in defence of public services of urban solid waste. It is unacceptable for a democratic government to change the statutes of the multi-municipal urban solid waste systems unilaterally, disregarding the views of the other shareholder, the authorities. It is an authoritarian attitude that reveals a deep disrespect for the government by the authorities and its constitutionally enshrined autonomy framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u73	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u74	There has been a long time since this government has not looked at the means to achieve the goals it intends to achieve, above all, in a position of the « I want, I can and I command ». The government changed the statutes of multi-municipal urban solid waste systems unilaterally, because it knew that it would not have the agreement of the authorities and also knew that it did not have the support of workers and populations. Worse: the Government has not only taken a decision ignoring fully the opinion of the authorities, as it has assumed the competences of the exclusive responsibility of the authorities, against their opinion, to hand them over to the private. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u75	This legislative amendment is another component in the construction of the legal regime to allow the privatisation of EGF and therefore of public services for solid urban waste. All references to the mandatory nature of public administration were removed, where they existed, because they constituted an obstacle to the privatisation process. We also recall here the process in which these multi-municipal systems were created, in a clear blackmail and pressure on the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u77	... for the establishment of these systems and, if not, they would not have the possibility of having access to Community funds for the investments that were necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u78	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u79	In fact, this pressure and blackmail is not naturally off the one who would be the long-term target and which this government is now implementing. The privatisation process currently under way has not been completed and the Competition Authority has announced that it would undertake an in-depth investigation of the EGF process because it considers that « in the light of the elements collected in the first stage of the procedure, doubts remain that the operation may result in significant obstacles to effective competition in the provision of services to support the management of urban waste of municipal responsibility ». There is nothing to justify the privatisation of the EGF. It is a profitable company, which ensures the treatment and recovery of waste to more than 60 % of the population, which has more than 2000 workers and in which over the years numerous investments have been made. Then why privatize? Only by a political and ideological option, as Mr President has taken. This Government is pursuing a strategy for the destruction of public services to deliver "the tray" to the private, without risk and maximizing the profits of these same private entities, against the will of the authorities, workers and populations. In the event of the privatisation of EGF, the public service will degrade-CL, will have lower quality and efficiency, will not respect the rights of workers and the costs will be higher for users, in order to satisfy the profit of the private. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is why the CFP today defends the maintenance in the public sphere of EGF and public services of urban solid waste. It is that only the public management of urban solid waste ensures the provision of a public service of quality, with efficiency and affordable costs for users, and the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents today a set of draft resolutions, proposing the cessation of the legal decrees under consideration, to stop the privatisation process and to ensure the maintenance of the EGF in the public sphere. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u82	I now give the floor to Mr Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u83	The Minister for the Environment, Land and Energy — Mr President, Mr President. Members: I think we all understand that what is at stake today is a desperate attempt to keep the theme lively and active until the next elections. Therefore, there is no reason for a privatization that was decided in September, after a restructuring of the waste sector that lasted more than one year, to remain, in a logic almost of PREC, trying to maintain this active theme, with a movement led by the Communist Party and then, in a very diligent way, by the Socialist Party. We have seen, in recent days, Mr. President of the House of Loures, Bernardino Soares, leading and the authorships of the Socialist Party following, in a very diligent manner, the options of the Portuguese Communist Party. And today, in this debate, this option is again being addressed. [[PCP protests.]] And I am very sorry to see the Socialist Party in a situation like this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I cannot fail to note that if there is consistency on the part of the Portuguese Communist Party in anachronism, on the part of the Socialist Party there is inconsistencies not only with its thinking as with its practice while it was government and did not cease to privatize Aquapor in particular. But there are differences, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. This privatisation was first initiated after a restructuring work in the waste sector that guarantees the strengthening of the public service, because what is involved is the strengthening of the public service in the concession bases; secondly, after the strengthening of environmental objectives, with more ambitious targets for recycling, for reuse, for diversion of landfill, for selective collection; and thirdly, after ensuring a tariff change—and that is why there is so much dispute between some camera presidents—which cuts in excessive income. For many years, Portuguese consumers paid some ‘fats’ in waste tariffs — swimming pools, transport, cultural services — but this is not part of waste services. And with the change we made... [[Protests from PCP MP David Costa.]] Sir, may I speak? However, with the amendment we made, we were able to move from a cost-plus scheme, where all costs were added to the tariff, to a income-cap scheme, where only a few costs are eligible. Mr President, do you know how much tariffs are going to fall in relation to what was planned? They will fall by 20 %. You know why? Not because of privatization, but because the restructuring of the waste sector involved a new tariff regulation... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... and, finally, because this was a process with great demand and transparency and very competitive. I know you are. Ladies and gentlemen are doing everything to keep the subject as lively as possible, but today it is found that all attempts to fight or discredit have been made. First, with the precautionary provisions — no precautionary provision was successful. Secondly, they tried to devalue the value of the company—they failed and the company was sold, in the privatisation decision, with a clearly higher value of 50 % than the evaluations that were made, with seven candidates from six different countries and three different continents. Then they are trying to instrumentalize the decision of the Competition Authority, which is absolutely normal. The in-depth investigation decision is absolutely normal in a State that favours independent regulation. Today we have an in-depth investigation within the EGF, such as the Atlantic Pavilion or the Galp-related privatizations. And that is why, out of respect for regulation, we wanted to put it up against the final decision in this privatisation. Privatization, the final decision will be deliberate after the final opinion of the Competition Authority and not on the contrary, because this did not happen, as you know, in the past. And on the other hand, we have made sure that the competitor who won will have to respect the remedies that the Competition Authority is issuing. Finally, it was a privatization that did not alter the role of relationship with the municipalities. Don't insist, ladies. Members, in a fallacy which is not true: there is no change in parasocials, there is no change in counterpart, there is no change in the relationship between the EGF and the municipalities. The only thing that changed was the ownership of the EGF, which continues to operate under concession and continues to operate under public service. So, here you come, what does this challenge justify? I believe that, first of all, ideological prejudice on the part of some, who think that the State should do everything, should be regulator, grantor, supervisor and manager. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] I am very curious that those who object, in particular at the Socialist Party's bench, that the State can transfer to the private sector this operation of management of urban solid waste do not challenge the circumstances of the private manage dangerous resources. There is a certain inconsistencies here: can the private manage hazardous waste resources in the CIRVER (integrated centres for recovery, recovery and disposal) and cannot manage banal waste when the private already collects banal waste? Oh, my God! Or when, from outside Europe, in countries led and in legislation made by left-wing parties, most of the solid urban waste is managed by private people? [[Protests from PCP MP David Costa.]] So there's ideological prejudice here. Secondly, there is electoralism. It is clear that an attempt is being made to ensure that a debate which has been closed since September can continue to be animated until September. I understand, you can go on there, but I think it's going to be a lot of effort. Thirdly, there is a legitimate municipal interest. I admit, the ladies. Camera presidents want to safeguard their interests for the council, but what was at stake was the national interest. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] If we did what you guys did. The presidents of the chamber of VALORSUL wanted, that it was privatization to be made system the system rather than in block, we would be favouring coastal systems, harming systems of the interior and we cannot be, day by day, no, defending the fight against the depopulation of the interior and then in practical decisions, such as the privatization of the EGF and the restructuring of the water sector, thinking that it is preferable to make a process of support to some coastal municipalities. Finally, because some municipalities benefited from excessive income, they benefited from transfers that were paid by all of us in the waste rates resulting from support in sports, cultural, social areas, and so on. I therefore believe that there is no justification for this litigation, there is no justification for this political-party complaint, especially because, in this case, we have done everything to ensure that the environmental targets are strengthened, that the public service is strengthened and that the tariffs fall in relation to what was planned. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u84	Mr Pedro Pismão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If there is a merit that, of course, these parliamentary assessments of the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party have to allow us to point out, once again, in this House, that which has been the reformist spirit of this government in the area of the environment, in particular in the concrete case of the restructuring of the urban waste sector. From the outset, I would like to point out those who are the main objectives of this restructuring: to increase the efficiency of waste management systems, with the reduction of associated costs; to ensure access and improvement of the quality of services provided to the populations; to harmonise the disparity of tariffs; and, as Mr Minister pointed out, to promote territorial cohesion as well. But if the objectives are important, the strategy is no less important. PERSU 2020 is in force, which defines what is the urban waste strategy, a process that has been extensively involved, which has ambitious targets for selective collection and recycling and which will enable the fulfilment of the international targets to which the country is bound. from then that the next years will be very demanding for both the EGF and its participating companies, providing for accumulated investments over EUR 300 million by 2020, which must of course be reconciled with the new Community funding framework 2014 - 2020. That is why, in the context of the containment of the budget deficit, with the necessary reduction of public expenditure, it is necessary to clarify three fundamental questions in this House. From the outset, the first question is this: Mr Minister, will the State have the financial capacity to ensure that the necessary investments are made to meet the goals set out in the PERSU 2020? It's important to know that. How do you pay for these investments? On the other hand, given what are the objectives of strengthening public service, to be included in the basic diploma of this concession, are the principles of universal access, continuity and quality of service, efficiency and price equity, as well as ensuring that these same goals are met? Finally, the question that concerns citizens, taxpayers, the question that needs to be raised at the moment is whether, with the harmonisation envisaged in this privatisation process, we can have the guarantee, or not, of the non-accmentation of the tariff to be charged by the provision of essential service or whether, even with this process, tariffs will be reduced. These are the questions I leave to Mr. Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u86	The Minister has informed the Bureau that he will respond at the end of the requests for clarification. To ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Farmhouse now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u87	Mr President, Mr Minister, very quickly, the minimum I can call this privatisation process is a big mess, it's a cheating process. In May last year, the Minister said: "The legislative process is all over. This process was always done with the greatest weight, with great dialogue, with the ability to have the housework done in advance, giving a regulatory response that gives confidence to the municipalities, municipalities and competitors." The question I put to you, Minister, is what is the confidence that municipalities have in this process of privatization. On the other hand, with regard to the status of the regulatory entity in this sector, which entered into force on 1 April last year and which approved, between the period of promulgation and publication, the tariff regime for waste, but only now is it preparing the procedure for the indication of the new board of directors of the regulatory entity, I ask you, Minister, how do you think this is a transparent process, when the regulatory entity is not yet 100 %, when the regulatory entity does not yet have all the means necessary to perform its function and, above all, when it is in a phase of great conflict with the municipalities. And we're talking about selling one of the crown jewels, one of the main assets that the country still owns. That is what the Minister wants to do quickly, quickly, but unfortunately, there is already a year and the process is still going in the middle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u88	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u89	Mr President, Minister, in his speech, which I have heard carefully, sought to find a set of arguments to justify this privatisation, but the truth is that, of the arguments he has raised, some do not correspond to the truth and others are not plausible. Mr Minister, then, if the objective was to make a tariff regulation, what prevents public management from doing so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u91	What prevents you? Oh, my God! What can public management not make private entities do? Oh, my God! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u92	Where do private entities provide better public service than public services themselves when managed in the public sphere? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u93	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u94	The Minister has not yet been able to clarify this. You know why? Because what this government is doing — and Mr Minister has responsibilities, like all of his government — is taking on a number of companies providing business public services to meet the interests of the large economic and financial groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u95	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u96	This is the main objective, as it has been in other companies and how it will be, in future, with others that this government is preparing to privatize, as is the case with the Waters of Portugal. As rhetorical as this government is now using, this is the main objective of this government. I can also talk about the great interest around the EGF. The EGF has an estimated worth of around EUR 1000 million when a set of investments has been made and has highly qualified staff. There is no doubt that there are great private interests around this issue. The truth is, Mr Minister, that nowhere has a privatisation process ensured better public services and more accessible to populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u97	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u98	The Minister did not make a single reference to the authorities and this Government did not comply with the said word because, when multi-municipal systems were created, many of them were expected to be managed only by public authorities. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u99	That is why this government is in a hurry, and in a unilateral way, to change the statutes precisely because they constituted an impediment to the privatisation process. But, Minister, this process is contested by everyone: by workers, by populations, by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and by the autoarchs not only communist but also by the PS and its party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u102	That is why, Minister, this is a process that goes against everything and against everyone and does not meet respect for the rights and the provision of public services for Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u103	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u104	Mr President, Minister, since the process of alienation of the EGF began, the Government has done everything to ensure the involvement and active participation of the authorities. Do so in the definition of public service objectives by including and respecting the concerns expressed by municipalities within the sphere of EGF, as well as by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, and which are poured into the diploma of the basis of the concession, with a view to ensuring the principles of universal access, continuity and quality of service, price efficiency and equity and the fulfilment of environmental goals. But the government also involved the authorities in the diplomas that guided the entire legislative process, welcoming the decision-making of the various stakeholders, as happened in the formulation of the new statutes of ERSAR (Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ) or in the law of the detailed invoice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u105	We must not forget that the active participation of the municipalities has motivated, including, the postponement, deliberate by the Minister, of almost a year in the privatisation process in order to ensure the ideal information, through various meetings that took place throughout the country, organized by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, in conjunction with the Ministry of the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy, with the Secretary of State of the Environment, with ERSAR, with the Waters of Portugal, with the EGF and with the municipalities of the universe of the EGF. In addition, Mrs. Members, meetings were held at the Ministry of the Environment by various chamber presidents, municipal assemblies, inter-municipal communities, where all clarifications and doubts were provided. Mr President, the privatisation process resulted in an open and clear international public competition. It was given the possibility of the authorities to maintain their participations, but also to acquire the shares of other municipalities covered by the same multi-municipal system, having 12 of them chosen to exercise their right of sale. Thus, it was a process conducted with the municipalities and not against the municipalities. Still, inexplicably, some of the municipalities decided to bring precautionary measures against the privatisation process of the EGF. Taking advantage of the presence of Mr. Minister, we would like to know how many precautionary measures have been raised and how far the situation of these same precautionary measures have been covered by the Supreme Administrative Court. Finally, I ask the Minister if, after all the efforts that Mr Minister has made to involve the authorities in this process, he feels disappointed at the positions that have been taken by some presidents of the EGF system chamber, as is the case with VALORSUL, using the argument of the privatisation process of EGF, in particular in systems where the municipalities themselves are not able to ensure their share in waste management, including the collection and referral of urban waste. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u106	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u107	Mr President, Minister, he began his speech by saying that there would be a desperate attempt on the part of the opposition to keep the topic active and on the political agenda. That is the case, but it is not desperate, Minister. Desperation identifies it more in the government. A despair for total privatization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u109	...a despair of privatizing everything, even in the last months of your term. But there is a prospect of keeping the issue of privatization active on the political agenda, in particular the issue of the privatization of the EGF, to ensure that the Minister is absolutely certain that it exists. If I may, the problem has now begun, because what Mr Minister is going to do is privatize a waste collection, treatment and recovery system covering 6, 4 million Portuguese, I repeat 6, 4 million Portuguese. So, Mr Minister, when this system is delivered, by hand, to the private, there are many problems, and serious, and there is a lot of challenge. But you will not be the Minister to settle them, because the government will no longer be here! The privatisation of the EGF is an issue which cannot in any way leave the political agenda, even because, Minister, we are talking about an ultra-sensitive sector. The Minister knows so well or better than I that the waste sector is fundamental to public health, the environment and even social cohesion. Mr Minister, this system has been built over time and therefore I ask: what about all the public investment that has been made to achieve a system like what we have today? Oh, my God! It is an advanced system, with technology, with skilled workers who have also given their best in the construction of this system. So what about that public investment? Everything is ready and now it is delivered to the private. It's completely unacceptable! And, Mr Minister, of course, you cannot leave here today without answering the question of municipalities. Have the municipalities been heard about everything? Did the municipalities participate in equal circumstances? Mr Minister, frankly, I do not believe that this is any longer convincing the municipalities, whether they are party, nor does it convince this House or any of the Portuguese and Portuguese. The problem is that the Minister has faced a process of privatization, which has not been very clear because he has had many incidents in the course, but, above all, it is an attack on public service in our country. The Government has the opportunity to withdraw and this House can force the Government to withdraw. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u110	To answer that, I have the floor of the Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin with the process of dialogue with the municipalities. I believe that there is no doubt about the fact that we have made numerous meetings with municipalities, even when there were differences. It was not because of the lack of dialogue that it was not possible to verify these differences and even advance to some convergences. I would like to record that it was the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities that, at the request of the Government, and in hearing with the municipalities, made a proposal to strengthen the public service objectives, as requested by the Government. In other words, the Government asked the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to submit proposals to strengthen public service objectives. These proposals were made, were welcomed and were integrated into the grant bases. Secondly, the long tag, the right of preference, was an option that benefited the municipalities, namely five municipalities of the Socialist Party, who exercised this option to sell their shares. Therefore, once again this good articulation with the municipalities is emphasized. But it is clear that not all municipalities agree with this privatisation or, better than privatization, it is about the restructuring process, because they basically see some expectations of continuing to benefit from funding in matters that are not related to waste and that are paid by all of us in the final tariff. I wanted to reject all the references made in the sense that it was a failed process. The gentlemen. Members confuse the consequences of interventions that exist from those who are losing with a process that on the part of the government has always been well structured and that has been done in the amount of privatization and not later. For example, today it has been said that at the end of the government's term of office we are changing the statutes. Well, we are not running, changing the statutes or the basis of concession. This was done in June. What are you guys talking about? Members made it today in March to bring diplomas that were approved in June, giving the idea that at this end of the government we are making these changes. But these changes were made before privatisation. Therefore, it is clear that there is an intention and maintain a level of dispute that, I confess, already goes beyond the decision-making process that has already been taken. With regard to heritage, some statements were made again that did not correspond to reality. The EGF heritage will fully revert to the municipalities at the end of the concession period. The investment that was made, the entire heritage returns to the municipalities in the final phase of the concession. Therefore, the infrastructures are not the grouping that has won. The infrastructures that have been built and those that will be built revert to the municipalities at the end of the concession, within 20 years. Finally, the Government was careful not only to promote privatization with regard to the size of the price, but mainly the strategic project, particularly in relation to employment. I know you're discussing a STAL petition. However, I would like to stress that in the privatisation process and in the specification of charges, human resources have been valued strategically and that once again, with PERSU 2020, it is expected that, with the new environmental targets, there will be an increase in employment by 22 % in the sector and a strengthening of VAB(gross value added) by 34 %. I therefore believe that there is no reason to continue to challenge this process but that we will not be six months away from the legislative elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u112	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessments that are being discussed today have an eminently political and conceptual nature of how the State should position itself in the various sectors and which it is important to clarify. We are those who give priority to the quality of the service provided, regardless of the provider. We are those we want and we want to introduce the necessary changes with a single objective: to improve the services provided to the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u114	He can only be kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u115	It will also be worth recalling that the privatization of EGF is part of the Government Programme, which states: « Promote the sustainability of the waste management and management system, effectively implementing the 3R hierarchy (reduction, reuse and recycling); empower the waste sub-sector within the Portuguese Waters Group and implement the necessary measures to open it to the private sector; ». Privatisation does not provide for any particular negotiation. The process of privatization of the EGF, as provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding, is a financial operation which, in a very transparent way, allows the debt of the Water Group of Portugal to be amortized. This process did not change the status of the infrastructures affected by the concession, which continue to fulfil the objectives for which they were built during the concession period and return to the heritage of the municipalities at the end of the concession period. Parliamentary assessments and the petition under consideration have a common theme: precisely the legal regime for the granting of exploitation and management, under public service, of multi-municipal treatment and selective collection of urban waste. The provision of a public service for the treatment and recovery of urban waste must ensure good environmental practices, taking into account the applicable national and Community regulations. It is our understanding that it does not necessarily have to be the State providing this service. The State shall ensure its provision under previously established environmental conditions. the State shall regulate, assess and monitor the quality of the service provided in order to ensure full compliance with the legislation, as well as the commitments made in the tendering phase. These commitments, combined with an increase in system management efficiency, will allow for a harmonisation of tariff disparities and cost reduction. The changes in the social capital of the EGF do not call into question the quality of services; rather, the efficiency and innovation lent by the private initiative will enable environmental targets to be improved by valuing all recyclables. The private initiative will certainly continue to contribute to the reduction of landfill, as we know that it represents a cost, contrary to recycling, which may represent a profit, resulting in an improvement of the environmental quality of the process. The private initiative is in a better position to ensure regular, continuous and efficient treatment of urban waste. Finally, with the firm and determined conviction that the withdrawal of the State from the provision of the service will enable it to strengthen its regulatory and supervisory role, thus contributing to greater environmental efficiency and improving the quality of life of our populations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u116	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for the Greens to welcome not only the petitioners of this petition, entitled In defence of public waste services', but also the STAL. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens follow the purposes of the petitioners and the STAL and share their concerns. That is why the Greens are presenting, in this discussion, 11 legislative initiatives that aim to stop the effects of the 11 diplomas through which the Government intends to materialize the intention to privatize the EGF. We do so because the privatization of EGF is a monumental mistake and it is a mistake at all titles and at all levels. It is a mistake because we are talking about a waste collection and treatment sector that is strategic for the country, especially at the level of the environment, but also at the level of spatial planning, particularly with regard to combating regional asymmetries. It is a mistake because we are talking about a company that has majority participation in 11 multi-municipal systems, representing about 60% of the Portuguese population. It is a mistake because we are talking about a sector that is practically a natural monopoly with all guarantees of profit control for the private and the absence of any risk. It's a mistake because EGF is a profit-making company, it's a profit-making company. Finally, it is a mistake because huge investments have been made that will now benefit private companies, because the government, on a penalty and tray, offers these investments to the private. It is no wonder, therefore, that the government is completely isolated from this privatisation. I don't know if the Minister of the Environment has already noticed, but he has everyone against you. It has the municipalities against it, including autocratics of its party, has the organizations of the environment against it, has the workers against it. Finally, he has everyone against him and against the government in this intention, but still the government alone intends to continue to deliver this strategic sector to the private sector. Mr Minister, we have known for a long time that the government is dealing very badly with everything that is public. The government cannot get rid of this ideological burden that carries back and transforms everything that is public in business for the private. To fatten the market to the private is the great concern of this PSD/CDS government, because the public service to be provided to the citizens is of no importance to this government. The public interest does not risk anything, and we have been aware of this for a long time. This business is just another confirmation of it, because no one has any doubt that it is absolutely ruinous for the public interest, but very interesting for the private sector, until the management of this waste, being a natural monopoly, who holds it has enormous power in this strategic sector with reflections not only on the quality of life of the populations, but also in the promotion of good environmental standards. We have also long realized that this government has no respect for local authorities, nor for the autonomy of local authority, and the examples are not lacking. I could give many examples, Minister. in this case, considering that the municipalities joined multi-municipal systems and that they did so with the conviction that the EGF remained in the public sphere and never with the perspective of its privatization, what the government is doing with local authorities is a stab in the back, it is a true betrayal. That is what this is about, Minister. What is at stake is not keeping the conversation open, what is at stake is a huge knife in local authorities, it is a betrayal to municipalities and, above all, it is a way to fatten the market to the private. Everything else is bullshit, Minister! Everything else is bullshit talk! They say that the public service is insured and that the rates are lower is bullshit talk. In fact, as were the other privatisations in relation to public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u119	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the STAL — some of whom are present in the galleries — who have stimulated the petition that is being debated today, as well as all the petitioners and petitioners, more than 7000 who have decided to address their concerns on the issues under discussion to the Assembly of the Republic. We follow the concerns expressed and also those related to the situation of workers and their jobs — the more than 2000 workers who praise in this sector. Mr Environment Minister, at the end of the debate, we want to say that the privatisation of the EGF only solves one problem: the profit of the private sector. It's the only problem that solves. The waste system is highly desirable: it is developed, installed, has adapted technology and has progressed greatly in recent years. So, Minister, who takes care of him will only be profiting! Just work! Mr Minister, do not tell me that the equipment and facilities will then remain for the municipalities at the end of the concession. Podera, Minister! So who would they stay for? For the private as well? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister, frankly, it's not worth getting that far! I think! There is no single argument of economic rationality, or even common sense, for privatization, no longer to mention the arguments of public service defence which Mr and his Government put under the carpet. Throughout this process, the way the municipalities were treated was completely unacceptable. Local power was treated in a way that it should not and that implies having a word to say. It's not listening, nor is it gathering! It is the effective power of the municipalities, their role in the multi-municipal systems. They were shareholders and were not even treated as shareholders, as we know. Mr Minister, this privatization is so serious, so serious, that it cannot even leave the political agenda, nor the local political agenda, because it will be there, nor the national political agenda. As far as this is concerned, you can be sure that, as much as it bothers you and as much as it bothers you that this issue is always coming back, it will continue until one day it is possible to reverse the whole situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u120	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u121	I shall end with a sentence: a fundamental sector, I repeat, fundamental, such as that of waste must be where it should be, which is in the public sector, directed and controlled by the State and subject to democratic scrutiny by the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u122	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries as well as petitioners. Today, we discuss a set of decrees called to this plenary by the Socialist Party and the Communist Party in the form of parliamentary assessments, related to the process of reprivatization of the EGF. however, we cannot fail to mention the lack of political opportunity taking into account the extemporaneous time of the agenda for this discussion, since, as is known to all, the process of alienation of sub-holding of the Waters of Portugal Group, the General Development Company, has already been realized. Despite this, this majority did not steal from the debate. It is important to be clear in this debate. The main concerns are the maintenance and improvement of the public service and in this process the government has managed to ensure continuity, universality and quality in the provision of these public services. It is also important not to ignore that efforts have still been made to safeguard the application of the tariff regulation of the urban waste management service issued by the sector regulator. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we should not ignore some of the reasons behind this government decision in order to dismantle the narrative and demagogy present in these initiatives, particularly the case of the Socialist Party. It is good to remember that this is one of the many measures arising from the request for external aid negotiated and signed by the Government of the Socialist Party. in the Memorandum of Understanding, the privatisation measure of the General Development Company was envisaged, within the framework of the measures to be taken with a view to promoting macroeconomic adjustment. In other words, this measure resulted from the negotiation of the Socialist Party's Government with the troika. If we already know the Communist Party's position on the waste sector, whether in the statization of services, as they have always claimed, whether their eternal prejudice to private investment, the Socialist Party is a pure act of political dishonesty. But, as an example, let us remember only a few cases that were mentioned in the Memorandum negotiated and signed by the Socialist Party, in which Portugal was bound before the international bodies, for which the Socialist Party gave the floor. I remember only three examples. The Socialist Party included in the Memorandum the reduction in the number of local authorities. It's in the Memorandum, but the PS voted against. They also entered the Local Finance Act, but the PS voted against. They also included what was discussed here in the House, more recently, on the process of decentralization. It's in the Memorandum, but the PS voted against. That is, the Socialist Party, one day, says and signs something and the next day votes against what it defended and signed on the eve. It is clearly remarkable the ability of the Socialist Party to defend one thing and its opposite. The only possible explanation that we can find to justify this Socialist Party's position on EGF is the fact that the Socialist Party has already begun the electoral campaign. But as regards the election campaign, there is a reflection that the Portuguese should make: what confidence can the Portuguese have in a party that signs international commitments and, after a few months, ignores them? Oh, my God! What confidence can the Portuguese have in a party that is already promising the replacement of everything and something else, which is more than promising debt on debt, debt on debt? Oh, my God! This is an exhausted recipe, well known from all Portuguese. For the Socialist Party it should be clear that families and businesses do not want to return to bankruptcy or to a new riot. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the issue of waste. Indeed, the economic and financial context of the waste sector required a more responsible attitude, in order to protect the public interest of these services and citizens, rather than the instrumentalization of the subject for ideological and political purposes. The government has had a position of dialogue and transparency throughout this process... [[Rice from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ... and, in this demanding context, it is good not to forget that you have advanced with a significant set of major reforms for the waste sector. But it is also good to remember that there are national and international targets in the environmental area, to which the Socialist Party cannot be indifferent, with a zigzag speech that undermines these commitments. And here, again, it is fair to acknowledge that this Government has managed to reconcile these commitments with the provision of a service of excellence, ultimately ensuring the desired economic and financial sustainability of the systems. Thus, in order to conclude, contrary to what the left has so many times claimed, wrongly conditioning public opinion, the process of privatization of the EGF has been developed in a transparent manner, in conjunction with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and involving the authorities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u124	I'm asking the ladies. Members who wish to speak in favour of signing up, because so far there are no more entries. [[Pause.]] The Members are registered. Deputies Pedro Farmhouse, Carlos Santos Silva and Miguel Tiago. Mr Pedro Farmhouse has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u125	Madam President, I thought that Parliament would continue to hold its parliamentary stand that in the end the parties with proposals would still use the floor. That's how I signed up, but I can use the word right now. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems to me too serious what has been said here by the PSD and the Minister. First point: No privatisation of the EGF is included in the first Memorandum of the Troika. It was in the fifth review that you introduced the privatisation of the EGF. That's what's there, and it wasn't the first one! Secondly, I think it is important to clarify: the Minister said here that this process was transparent, it was clear and, when it started, everything was ready. Curious! ... It does not cease to be curious, Mr Minister, as the process of privatization began, according to the Diário da República, on 20 March 2014 and on 29 April, Quercus writes to Mr. Minister asking several questions, in particular how urban waste would be managed without the involvement of the authorities, on which studies based the Government on the strategic option for the privatization of EGF, as was possible the invitation to tender for privatization to advance, at that time, without the PERSU 2020, what were the guarantees that private entities would be given for environmental goals and finally the issue of the waste management fee. It is no less curious, Mr Minister, that the waste management rate should come in its environmental package in the so-called green taxation, which was stabilized only in November/December. It is that Mr. Minister opened the competition in March 2014, it wasn't in October 2014, it wasn't in November, it wasn't in December! The Minister opened the contest without having all the means, without all the pieces, without having everything that was essential for a transparent, clear and reliable process. Therefore, I can only point out, Mr Minister, that what you are saying here, that from now on the environmental goals will be achieved, that from now on the company will become balanced, more does not mean anything than myrific promises. But I ask, Minister: is the company no longer balanced? Oh, my God! Or are we here just in the face of ideological prejudice, according to which what is public is bad and what is private is good? Oh, my God! This, of course, is your opinion, but we believe that in the government, led by this Prime Minister, the privatization fury, of course, would also come to waste. I'm glad you're not going to stay in the government to privatize still the waters of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u126	Mr. Pedro Farmhouse was right: as a proposer he should help to conclude the debate. It happens that the change in the presidency of the Bureau and the fact that all Members are present. Members joined at the same time led to this small mistake. You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr Carlos Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to stress the relevance of this debate, but at the same time the demagogy that is around it. The relevance because we must say, once and for all, that it is precisely because of this process of privatization that the waters in Portugal will remain in the public sphere. It will be through this privatisation process that you will be able to amortise the tariff deficit and the debts of the Water Group of Portugal. And with regard to what you said yesterday, in the sense that we would privatize the water, today the mask falls, because this is exactly for keeping the water in the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u128	We're talking about waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u129	Demagogy why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Demagogy, because the mirror of this debate is exactly what happens in Valusul, and it is from Valusul that I come here to talk about. in Valorsul, there is currently an old-fashioned "RGA" system : Mr. Camera presidents, instrumentalizing the public space,... [[PCP and BE protests.]] ...through a political-party campaign, they decided to set aside, to clean up — the term is to clean up! — the majority shareholder, preventing him from voting in a general assembly. It's unbelievable! The gentlemen. Presidents of the Chamber, who for years valued their heritage — cars, machines, services — on behalf of Valorsul, and did not put a tosson there, Mr. Camera presidents, who had the opportunity to buy the shares of Parque Expo and EDP when they left, but found it very good that they were delivered to the EGF, come today to say that the EGF is no longer useful. It's unbelievable! It's exactly this demagogy I'm talking to you! Mr. Pedro Farmhouse said that the PS, miraculously, came to resolve this issue. Comparing this process with the particular negotiating processes that you have made with Aquapor and the RESI Group is unbelievable. This process is a transparent, open process, is an international public contest where there was dialogue,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... where the municipalities had the opportunity to participate. Do you compare this to private business that you have done in this field? Oh, my God! I ask you even more: what do you think of the words of Minister Dulce Pássaro when you put the possibility of privatizing this sector? Oh, my God! I also ask you what you have to say about the five municipalities of the Socialist Party, namely Águeda, Fafe, Guimarães, Santo Tirso and Vizela, who made available to sell their shares in the multi-municipal systems of which they were part? Oh, my God! I would like to hear the Socialist Party on this matter, but there is no time left. Finally, Madam President, I would like to leave only three or four notes on the question of privatization in what concerns the Left Block. once and for all, they end with the language that we want to privatize, because it is precisely because of the courage of this minister, who put on the table a set of mechanisms, tools, that we will protect those who are the public interests, creating safeguard clauses that can even recover this concession to the public system, if the tariff system and a set of European and international environmental standards are not met. These were the issues I wanted to put, to the assurance that it is important that, once and for all, the deep demagogy around this debate should end. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u130	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor also to speak in order to speak in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the midst of the delirious discourse of the PSD and the CDS, there was only one thing they did right, which was to remember that the PS privatized Aquapor and wanted to privatize the Waters of Portugal. It's true! And see the result of the privatisation of Aquapor! It was also to improve, it was also to lower rates... Look, go to the municipalities where Aquapor has concessions to see what's down and what's improved! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u133	Mr Minister, another strategy to benefit the interior. It's like rising water rates, it's all to benefit the inside! He did not remember reopening the schools that closed, reopening the health centres that closed, opening or improving roads, betting on railways, betting on public transport, dynamising the economic fabric. Don't! The best thing that happened to him was privatizing the trash. This is a spectacular thing to dynamize the interior, Minister! In Naples it gave a tremendous result! Open... [[Oh, oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u134	It was a dynamization of garbage all over the city, with the public health concerned, for the profits of the private people continued to grow, having the State to intervene, including to put an end to the dismantling of a real mafia that was formed around the waste management.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u135	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u136	Mrs. Members, Minister : Reasons for defending the maintenance of EGF in the public sphere are too much: workers' rights are not guarded, there is no line on workers' rights, on the volume of jobs, on the maintenance of acquired rights; the role of authorities in management; the role of the State in planning; the quality of service; the obligation of this service is subordinated to environmental principles and public interest. For privatization, in fact, Mr Minister, there is no reason. The reasons here are zero, and it is understandable, because the only argument that Mr Minister has is that whoever defends the maintenance of the EGF in the public sphere does so because of ideological prejudice—see yourself well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u137	Poor argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u138	Defending the Constitution of the Republic, which says that there must be a balance between the private sector and the public sector, is an ideological prejudice; confronting the Constitution, disregarding it, tearing it, handing over a monopoly to Mota Engil, against the Constitution, in all aspects, is that it is indeed wisdom and ideological flexibility. It is no longer ideological prejudice, Minister, wanting to apply a privatization without a single advantage to the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u139	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u140	... other than the surrender of national interest to foreign hands or to private control hands. Mr Minister, one last word on the opportunity for discussion, because that is how you opened the debate. I said this is kind of an attempt to keep this debate alive. Mr Minister, it may be uncomfortable, for you, that Parliament is still discussing politics,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u142	... but for the CFP every opportunity to stop this disaster, this attack on the public interest will be used, within and outside Parliament. And on the side of the CFP, there is every reason to do so - the government has only one: it is at the service of private interests, it is a business committee of the large economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u144	The Bureau shall record a sign of a request for a word from the Government's bench. Is it for what purpose, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u145	Mr President, I am very sorry, this is the first time I have done it in two years, but I would like to exercise the right to defend honor in relation to the last sentence of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u146	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u147	Mr President, the honourable Member said that the government is at the service of private interests and that is too serious a statement to pass unnoticed. [[PCP protests.]] I am sorry, Mr President, that you do not know the limits in Parliament to offend a government strategy, which, on the contrary, has privileged the public interest. If the Government wanted to promote private interest and easy profit it would not have strengthened the public service, it would not have strengthened environmental goals, would not have put funding in the operational programme, in order to prevent tariffs from increasing so much, it would not have put safeguard clauses for the possible reversal of this privatisation. Therefore, Mr President, you have no justification for the statement you have made, which is a process of intent. With the same moral authority as a government that has not privileged any company for being Portuguese, in previous privatisations, it is not because a company is Portuguese that has no right to gain privatisation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u148	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u149	Mr President, Minister, the best way to defend the honour of a government that does not want to be accused of being at the service of private interests is to defend the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u150	That's what the government does every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u151	Tariff regulations, Minister, environmental targets, planning, none of which prevented the EGF from being public.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u153	Absolutely none of this prevented the EGF from being public! I shall end only with this note, Mr Minister for the Environment: to see who is at the service of whom we are only seeing who benefits from privatisations, who loses with privatizations and who determines that they are made against the interests of the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u154	Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this set of parliamentary assessments is over here, on the second item on our agenda. I would like to congratulate the Minister for the Environment and the Members. State Secretaries. We will move on to the next item, giving some time for the government to prepare for this debate, which will also be a parliamentary assessment. The Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs is already present in the Chamber and I will state the subject of this debate, which is the assessment of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January, which approves the legal regime of access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities[ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. To introduce the debate, I give the floor to the party of the initiative, the PS, by Mrs Hortense Martins. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u155	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The PS today brings to plenary the assessment of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities (RJACSR) [ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ), as we had announced in plenary at the time of discussion of the request for legislative authorisation requested by the Government. At that time, we said that this diploma introduces confusion, showing a lack of coherence and systematization, and it is, in fact, considered a legislative nonsense, as some of the experts say. The RJACSR is a 'Russian salad' which brings together matters related to the law of balances, operating hours, but also with the control of trade in products as disparate as plant protection, funeral activity and even tanning centres, including restoration activities and drinks—see! There were many criticisms by the sectors concerned, which thus find it difficult to frame their sector, rather than in fact achieving effective simplification, deburocratization, and to promote economic activity. But let's go to parties: the restaurant and beverage sector has maintained a legislative body of rules that has been coming since 1997 and which remained in 2011 when the Bolkestein Directive was transposed. in that legislation of 2011, it was already subject to a mere prior communication to the opening of an establishment. In addition, the Balcony of the Entrepreneur also plays a central role in this modernisation, simplification environment, a mixed process of Simplex and the Services Directive. Now, with the RJACSR, the restoration activity and drinks is combined with the exploitation of laundry, tanning centers and even with the funeral activity. Legislative stability is broken, ladies and gentlemen. Members, incomprehensiblely, opposed the principles that the legislator must govern, such as an amendment to legislation that only lasts three years and that has not even been subject to the SME test. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we really believe that, subject to this Test, this legislation would lead. What can we say about Zero License? With regard to the Zero License, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have found that no grounds have been laid for the repeal of this legislation, and I recall that it had even been awarded by the European Commission in 2012 for the innovative way in which it transposed the Portuguese Legal Ordering Services Directive, and that it has been in force only since May 2013. I can add others, but these are the main elements why we present here the cease-of-law decree. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u156	To intervene, I give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think there is a slight confusion about what is the legal regime of access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities, and I might clarify it in 11 points, in a brief and clear manner. First point: RJACSR is the legislative consolidation, in a single degree, of trade, services and restoration activities. We have revoked more than 16 legal diplomas. Secondly, it is the liberalisation of activities that can now begin without any communication. Thirdly, it is the liberalisation of working hours, while the chambers have the power to restrict timetables, in duly justified cases, and are bound by reasons of security or quality of life protection for citizens. Fourthly, it is the elimination of the obligation to first communicate working hours and, secondly, their rates. Fifth point: it is the elimination of the collection of closing communication rates. Sixth point: it is the simplification of the procedure for the authorisation of the installation and modification of establishments and commercial assemblies and also the elimination of the number of various entities involved in the installation. Seventh point: it is the liberalisation of the balance period, which can be achieved at any time of the year, at the choice of the economic agent, taking advantage of the exponential growth of tourism in Portugal, provided that it does not, of course, exceed the overall duration of four months per year. Eighth point: as regards trade authorisations, we increased the validity from six to eight years, reduced the value of the authorisation fees and eliminated the extension rates. Ninth point: operationalization of the commercial register, taking advantage of data already in the possession of other public administration bodies, in order to ensure the maximization of information from existing means and infrastructures. Tenth point: it is the simplification and harmonization of administrative procedures and the implementation of the digital principle as a rule. Finally, functionalities are assigned to the Entrepreneur's Balcony : all RJACSR procedures are processed by the Balcony of the Entrepreneur. This, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the RJACSR. But in conclusion, I would say that the objectives were achieved, and we had four: simplification of procedures: we simplified and reduced administrative burdens on citizens and businesses; we liberalized access to certain activities that are not dependent on any previous communication; we removed the obligation to communicate operating hours and their rates; we eliminated the rates associated with closing communications. In terms of consolidation, we consolidated legislation that was dispersed and established general arrangements for access to the exercise of activities. We have strengthened the control mechanisms, through a posteriori control, with greater accountability for economic operators, and we have disbursed and eliminated context costs. To that end, we have freed talent, innovation and creativity, to enhance economic growth and employment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u158	PCP intervention is followed. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This decree of law that we are debating imposes real "regime" amendments to access and exercise of activity, with profound impacts on trade, services, including funeral activities, restoration and drinks, i.e. a large majority of Portuguese economic fabric companies, and on the lives of workers in these sectors. But these changes and these impacts, as far as they are concerned, are deeply negative. As we have rightly warned, this diploma promotes the promotion of the most powerful economic groups, to the detriment of micro and small businesses, liberalizing and violating rules of fair competition, leaving crucial aspects of economic activity to the « law of the strongest ». The CFP also proposed to the Assembly of the Republic that the entities and sectors concerned should be heard. Some of them also asked to be heard by the Assembly of the Republic, but they were not without the political will of the majority. The result of these political options is seen in this decree-law. It is the total and final liberalisation of timetables, an old demand for groups of large distribution, and an even greater inequality between economic operators, with the economic groups having an even more disproportionate market power in their hands. And the same is true of the balance regime. in a national and international context, where deflation is a concrete concern for economic operators, you decide to liberalise the balance schedule. This means contributing, in an aggravated way, to the 'price war' which has been making itself feel, penalizing micro and small businesses and crushing, even more, their marketing margins. This has nothing to do with simplifying procedures, Mr Secretary of State. Other clearly negative and serious aspects of this decree are related to the establishments in the restoration and beverage sector, which are treated by this diploma, without taking care of its specificity. This is a completely unacceptable situation, also put to the funeral agency sector—in general, small family businesses—which will now be confronted, in their activity, with entities which, so far, were prevented from competing in this area, due to manifest competitive inequality. It is also noted for future memory that the current legal regime, which is no longer in force, resulted in a correction for parliamentary assessment in the previous legislation, proposed by the PCP and supported by the PSD and CDS, then in opposition to a PS government decree, whose liberalisation is now restored by a PSD / CDS government. It's always the same! On the other hand, concerns and questions remain regarding the implementation and management of the electronic platforms of the so-called Enterprise Balcony, involved in the so-called misburocratization, simplification of procedures, including the competences and means for this purpose. It is fiction on the ground, Mr. Secretary of State, in many cases! In view of the seriousness of this situation, the CFP presents a draft resolution for the cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities, because what is required is that this House take measures to make this decree-law no longer in force. This is a bad diploma that should never have been approved and we are at the right time to solve the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u160	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u161	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I would say, Mr. Secretary of State, who did very well in simplifying the Simplex. And it was very good to have an initiative that makes it clear that there is still a group of parties in this Parliament who still believe that entrepreneurs are criminals, who are irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u162	That's the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u163	There is a part of this Parliament that believes that entrepreneurs must have State protection and that there must be a political direction in the country's economic life. There are parties that are not surprising, they are so and by them there would never be private initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u164	That one now! This is a jungle! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u165	But there are others, such as the Socialist Party, whose position a little surprises me. I'm going to give some examples: who suffers more from bureaucracy? A big company or a small company?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u166	Bring here the Nuncio he explains!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u167	Who suffers more from diffuse and complex legislation? A big company or a small company? It's usually the small companies that suffer the most. And what did RJACS do? It simplified a set of diplomas scattered in one degree only. Who is more agile, who is better suited to new realities? A big boat or a small boat? It seems to me that a micro or a small company adapts better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u168	Tell that to Paulo Nuncio!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u169	As legislation, how does it happen, for example, in the Amadora City Chamber, that to close a business that has entered into difficulties has to pay a closing fee, does it make any sense? It only makes sense for those who want to be owners of economic life, owners of people's lives, owners of business life. For us, it doesn't make any sense. If the businessman wants to close his business, why do you have to pay a fee? If an entrepreneur wants to have his establishment open according to the demand, according to the region and the economic life of the place where he is, should he or should he not be free to decide? Of course he must be free. The State must establish rules with the central administration and with the authorities to create the conditions and to state what the rules of the game are. It must monitor the posteriori and penalize those who do not comply with the rules that are previously established. That's what's called simplifying. This is what is called having an investment-friendly State, a friend of entrepreneurs, and paying special attention to a significant part of the Portuguese economy, which is part of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why I think time liberalisation is a good measure
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u170	It was the previous government that implemented it. Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u171	That is why we believe that the exemption from payment of a set of installation and mandatory communications fees is also a good measure. Having a micro or a small company that loses half its time responding to state requests, filling out forms, is a mistake. What must happen is that this company must be turned to the market, turned to its customers and to the quality of services it provides in relation to them, its employees and the community. The RJACSR comes basically to simplify to have a State that is a friend of the investment, which makes its supervisory role as a regulator, but which is not an interventionary State or a State present in the life of companies. That's what we want to do. We have been listening to several companies in many sectors who are very pleased to have this time a State that simplifies, facilitates, creates rules and controls these rules but is not a State present in the lives of companies. The state is better today, and the data prove that, and many sectors are recovering. See what happens in tourism. Perhaps it has something to do with the significant growth of tourism by simplifying and eliminating a set of barriers to the installation of both animation companies and other sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u172	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u173	Perhaps they could look at something with some attention, and with this I will finish, Madam President, for what has happened. Simplification is business friend, it's not enemy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u174	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this diploma which is under parliamentary review, which approves the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities, is obviously not any diploma. It has been said here that it is a diploma with impact, and it is, in fact, a diploma with impact on companies, with impact on the economy and with impact on workers. And we're here to assume it. It is true that this diploma, and we knew it, aims to fulfill the reform agenda of this government, aims to fulfill the agenda for the growth of this sector and has therefore been assumed in this way. With it we managed to standardize a set of procedures that were dispersed by numerous diplomas. It is good enough for our entrepreneurs and our companies to have to deal with competitiveness, difficulties and the risk to which companies are exposed. It would be good not to be constantly disturbed by diplomas, difficulties, bureaucracy and processes that only hinder the access and exercise of the activity. This diploma is long, but ambitious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u176	No one understands!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u177	Although long, this diploma takes three fundamental vectors: firstly, it clearly regulates access, and then it manifests simplification; secondly, it regulates exercise and, thirdly, it contains a set of final provisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u178	The worst is what you don't say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u179	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously assumed by us that we want to simplify. The Balcony of the Entrepreneur, following the Zero Licensing, is for us a bet on these companies and on the ease of access and exercise of the activity by these entrepreneurs. Don't tell us, and taking the diploma here, that we didn't hear, we didn't consult, we didn't do a diploma with a hearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u180	Yeah, no! You didn't hear the entities!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u181	There is something that needs to be clarified here. One thing is the hearing, and that moment happened, another thing is the decision, and that moment happened, and another thing is the vote, and that was done. I have to record here, with some regret, that voted on the document on January 16, came into force 20 days ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u182	It was a legislative authorization that is completely different! You must know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u183	... I repeat, it came into force 20 days ago, and it was not even the diploma in force and the Socialist Party, in February, accused the document of not having been heard and not meeting the objectives proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u184	It's not serious! It's ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u185	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not seem to me to be a very serious way of doing politics. The document, after being approved democratically and by a majority, must be monitored, assessed and perhaps corrected in the future. But there is a document that has been approved here, which is not even in force and which is accused of failing to comply with it does not seem to us the best way to do the democratic debate. We assume the responsibility of the document, we assume that we want to continue our reform agenda and therefore we believe that the document should continue, without prejudice to the evaluation that we will have to make, in due course, but certainly never before it comes into force. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u186	The intervention of the Left Block by Mrs Mariana Mortágua follows. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the PSD Member spoke in debate because one of the criticisms we made to the discussion of this diploma, as soon as the legislative authorization came to Parliament, was that there was no time to debate such a complex and so extensive diploma, which covers, as Mr State Secretary said at the time, 60 % of the companies in this country. You didn't deserve any more debate? Didn't you deserve more thought? Were you not worthy of acceptance of the Members' contributions, with the various political views on the subject? Maybe, I deserved it. And that is the first criticism: the method was bad, from the point of view of the debate. But neither does it stay there, and that is not why we are asking for the end of the diploma, we are asking for it because we do not agree with its content. It mixes what is not mixed, does not respond to the specificities of each sector, treats equally what is not, nor can it be, the same. Therefore, the restoration sector, which, in fact, has to thank this government, does not claim to belong to this diploma. It belongs to another, has a different legislation, has a different legal framework, which claims to be closer to tourism than services, claims that it does not belong to this diploma which mixes everything. Mrs. Members, with regard to simplification, at the cost of context, ask small businesses what they think of Mr Paul Nuncio's dealings with the schemes and invoicing systems. Ask small entrepreneurs what they think about the bill of light they pay every month. Ask small entrepreneurs about the costs they really count, not to make an empty speech on the unbureaucratization or simplification of regimes and processes that then tell nothing in the lives of entrepreneurs who, whenever they come to claim measures, demand substantial measures that actually facilitate their lives. In addition to all this, this regime still creates market activities, still creates business and we do not forget that it delivers the funeral activity to the IPSS, as if they no longer had enough activities and as if they were no longer getting much of the activities that are today of the social state. Above all, this decree and this legislation are dangerous for small trade.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u188	This is going on a path...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u189	The liberalisation of timetables and the liberalisation of balances benefit those with the largest size, the largest scale, the most economically capable and the smallest. Liberalization promotes concentration and this happens in all sectors. This is an economic and empirical truth of society. Therefore, it does not cease to be curious that the decree had the support of SONAE but not of small entrepreneurs and not of small traders. It's paradigmatic, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. What this regime does is to give large companies tools to remove small competition, with everything that implies desertification of urban centres, loss of jobs, loss of social, cultural and economic heritage, with the small businesses to close by this country outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u190	There are those who are going to make masters abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u191	Everyone knows, because everyone sees in small cities traditional businesses being replaced by large surfaces or franchising. This has economic, social and cultural impacts in the future. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, both speeches for small entrepreneurs, but at hour h what is being promoted are supermarket boxes. This is being promoted at hour h, with these sector liberalisation measures. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I would like to say yes to simplification, yes to unburocratization, yes to consolidation, but not so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u192	Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u193	Mr President, in fact, the House has only spoken on a legislative authorization, as has already been said. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Zero Licensing and Simplex, for which the previous government has done so much, and the honourable Members. Entrepreneurs know very well that the road has already begun and even Mr. Vice-First Minister said it was something to be taken advantage of, it must be said that this was clearly interrupted by this government, which has added context costs in most cases. For example, in licensing matters, municipalities and central government entities have recently invested significant amounts in the adaptation of systems and in the creation of the Enterprise Balcony, which aims to process the legal regime of the Zero Licensing. Moreover, the training itself needed for the operationalization of this regime was a path that was being made and this investment and this effort will be set aside and wasted with the current regime, which is now attempting to implement. This will involve new expenditure inherent in the necessary adaptations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems we're always starting from scratch. That, yes, is intolerable costs for small and micro-enterprises, which the government should not promote but rather cautiously avoid. Until the legal regime for retail trade activities, in particular for street vendors and traders, a regime which has already been implemented by this Government and which is only two years old, this diploma is repealed. You want to tell me why does the government come to revoke a diploma that he himself promoted? We find no reason to do so, because what the economy is grateful for is that we are not always legislating, especially in the opposite direction. "The road is moving" and it is improving existing legislation. In line with the recommendations of the European Commission itself, we must ensure that administrative burdens are reduced for companies so that in an effective way they can simplify, disbursate and promote economic activity. This regime is irreformable. That is why we can only call for the cessation of this diploma, because we cannot ruin what has already been done, and very well, in order to promote economic activity, simplification. What was done here was the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u194	We now turn to Mr Under-Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat again what I have said several times here. The hearing was promoted to more than 20 entities, between numerous technical meetings. It is not worth repeating all entities, but this evidence exists. Secondly, Mrs Hortense Martins spoke in 'Russian salad', but I say no, Mrs Deputies, we are talking in street beef, in tiny fillt, Mrs Deputies, mingnet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u196	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u197	What you have, my left side, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua said about the empty speech, is precisely an empty speech, which is yours, which is also on my left side. What is the empirical or academic evidence that Mrs and Mrs. Do Members give me the working hours, the balances and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises? It is that we have studies, we have this evidence and I can make it available. I don't know, you guys have opinions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u198	Look at the studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u199	... opinions are interesting, I and the citizens thank opinions, but it is not with them that the country governs, it is with conviction and it is with academic matter, and that I have not found; none of the roles that have given me, of any party, has given me empirical or academic evidence on any of these matters. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Finally, we support small and medium-sized enterprises through the Investment Trade : in phase 1, it was 50 million; in phase 2l, plus 40 million. I recall that Mr. Minister of Economy has just presented the SME Investment 2015 line, with EUR 1, 4 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I also recall macroeconomic data. Why not talk about consumer confidence, which in February 2015 had the highest value since 2002.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u200	But negative!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u201	Why not speak of the 74 000 new jobs in the area of trade? Why not talk about the creation of 3764 companies, an 11 % growth in new companies? And finally let me quote, because I do not resist, what the Socialist Party mentioned, through Mrs. Glória Araújo, on 6 May 2010 : "The good solution will always be the bet on the greatest entrepreneurship on the part of small trade, and not on protectionism, through the hours of operation; regardless of the ideological colour of which it is seen, it would represent a clear blockade to the national economy and its efficiency, as it would also have a serious and damaging impact on the labour market due to the increase of unemployment, necessarily resulting from the reduction of working hours". That's what the honourable Member said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u202	That has nothing to do with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u203	But also Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defense, Fernando Serrasqueiro, said, at the time: «Protectionism does not lead to the growth of the Portuguese economy or its modernization and we have already seen that the country has a history of commercial protectionism. Creating commercial protectionism would not be the solution to this problem now». My gentlemen, the RJACSR comes to help small, medium and large entrepreneurs, comes to create jobs, creates a freer economy and comes to free the talent, which is fundamental in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u204	The debate on Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities is concluded[ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. I congratulate Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed to the reading of the fourth item on the agenda, to which, as we all know, there is no time for debate. These are motions for resolutions 105 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014 and 107 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. We therefore continue for the period of regular votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u207	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u208	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u209	I believe that the final script of the votes has not yet been distributed, i.e. in the script that has been distributed to me, there are still no draft resolutions announced and on the parliamentary assessments that have been discussed. Perhaps, it would be better to stop the work so that the full script can be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u210	Mr President, Secretary Duarte Pacheco informs me that the script is currently being distributed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with reasonable knowledge on the side of the script already, if they agree, we would prepare the system and move forward with the reading of two votes that have to be voted on. In the meantime, the script will come to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Since there's no objection, that's what we're gonna do. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 195 presences, to which the PS members Idália Serrão and Alberto Martins, add 197 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, we have two votes at the beginning of the vote script, which we shall read and vote. Let us begin by voting No 259 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — From condemnation of the terrorist attack on the Bardo National Museum in Tunisia ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ), that Secretary Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The terror is news again. this time it was an attack by terrorists at the National Museum of Bardo, in Tunes, which ended up causing death to 17 Western tourists leaving a bus to visit the Museum, struck with cold blood and without a chance to defend themselves against indiscriminate shots by terrorists. The attack also caused 44 wounded, some in serious condition, and the death of a police officer during the operation that was subsequently triggered, to rescue the hostages that terrorists kept inside the Museum. Tunisia, a state integrated into the shore of the Mediterranean and the palate of the Arab Spring, has been an example of the consolidation of representative democracy and the rule of law. This attack, now condemned, arose precisely on the day when the Tunisian Parliament discussed a proposal for a counter-terrorism law. Despite all the efforts that have been made by States to contain terrorism, we have witnessed a worrying escalation of the attacks and even a change in the way they act against terrorists who, without great means, can potentiate their actions and the terror that emanates from them. This attack, already condemned by the Portuguese Government and other European states, which saw their nationals being killed or injured by the two terrorists, is the most serious attack against foreigners in Tunisia since in 2002 Al-Qaeda carried out an attack on a synagogue on the island of Djerba, following which 14 Germans, 2 French and 5 Tunisians died. International terrorism is adapting to the security measures imposed by States and transforming itself, smoothing its means and dispersing its attacks, making the detection of those who seek to spread fear among the innocent to impose their radical ideas more complicated. In view of this, the international community, and not only the individual states, because this is a transnational threat, must redouble its efforts to contain all these forms of radicalism that seek to impose by force and by violence its ideas on the organization of society. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, shall: 1 — Condemns vehemently all and all forms of terrorism, and in this particular case the attack on the National Museum of Bardo in Tunis last day 18, considering that nothing justifies the indiscriminate death of innocents; 2 — Urges the international community to redouble its efforts to cooperate and prevent international terrorism in order to protect as far as possible the societies of these types of attacks, which only have to spread terror and fear among the people; 3 — Expresses its deepest condolences to the Tunisian Government and the families of the victims of this attack, expressing their solidarity to all those who have somehow been involved in this attack. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u212	Let us then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u213	Madam President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to vote No 260 / XII ( 4a ) — Greetings to the candidacy of the process of making the black dish of Bisalhães to the List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage Needing Emergency Safeguard ( UNESCO ) ( PS, PSD, BE, The Greens, CDS-PP and PCP ). Mrs. Rosa Albernaz will do the favor of reading the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « The black dish of Bisalhães represents a singular and ancestral element of the national holaria, due to its notoriety to the black color that enhances its forms and its unique charism. Its manufacture, through traditional processes, maintained until today without major changes, of preparation, modelling, manual decoration, transport and cooking of the clay, consists of an activity historically anchored in the community giving it the designation, with roots dating back to at least the 16th century. The Portuguese state recently recognized the black dish of Bisalhães, given its heritage and social value and as an identifying element of the region, as a manifestation of the Cultural Immaterial Heritage. Given that this fact alone is not sufficient to prevent the risk of its partial or total extinction, as a result of the socio-economic changes of the region and of the families producing it, the City Hall of Vila Real decided to promote its candidacy for inclusion in the List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage Needing the Urgent Safeguard of UNESCO, presenting a safeguard plan whose measures it undertakes to comply with. Thus, it is sought, with the so-called candidacy, in view of the marked decline in this secular activity and given its emblematic character for the popular culture of the region, to give new impetus to all the rehabilitation and promotion actions of this intangible heritage and to eliminate the risk of its extinction, also fighting for the dignity of the working conditions of the current potters and for the profitability of this noble art. The candidature and respective safeguard plan has already received unconditional support from numerous public and private entities, both at national and local level. In association with the foundations and objectives expressed above, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the recognition by the Portuguese State of the process of making the black sausage of Bisalhães as an immaterial cultural heritage and expresses its support for the initiative of the Municipal Chamber of Vila Real of presentation, with UNESCO, of the candidacy of that process to the List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage that Needs Emergency Safeguard (UNESCO ), as a more effective mechanism of safeguarding and affirming national and international this important immaterial cultural asset. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u216	Mrs. Members, let us vote no 260 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1281 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends strengthening measures to combat skin cancer ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by strengthening the intervention of primary health care in the fight against skin cancer ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1303 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the VAT rate in the restoration sector at 13 % ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 817 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — VAT replacement of the restoration at the rate of 13 % ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1305 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Returns the VAT rate to the food and drink services by 13 % ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 824 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Returns the VAT rate in the restoration sector to 13 % ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mr. Hélder Amaral asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u217	Madam President, that is to say that on the subject of the initiatives we have just voted on, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 825 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — to establish the principle of non- privatization of the water sector, amends Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( approves Water Law ), with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We continue with the general vote on Bill No. 819 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring access by private companies to the economic activities of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 821 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures public management of water supply, sanitation and solid waste ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mr Manuel Mota of the PS asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u219	Madam President, it is to inform the House that, together with Mr António Cardoso, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 822 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminates commissions for early repayment and termination of the contract, also establishing the obligation and free issue of the distraction and declaration of settlement of the loan ( amendment to Decree-Law No 51 / 2007 of 7 March 2007 and Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No. 823 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the basic account ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 818 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of fees, expenses or other charges by the services provided under that account ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 826 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and the Greens and abstains from the PCP and BE.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 290 / XII ( 4 ). (a ) — lays down the basis for the legal regime for the disclosure and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PCP, BE and 2 PS (Carlos Enes and Jorge Rodrigues Pereira) and the abstentions of the PS and the Greens were adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mr. Jorge Pereira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u221	Madam President, it is to announce that I shall, together with Mr Enes, present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. This bill is down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the script then includes the vote on a set of draft resolutions relating to incident parliamentary assessments on legal decrees which have recently been assessed. Having agreed that a block vote should be taken, we shall therefore vote on the following draft resolutions: Nos 1315 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 1327 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE ), concerning Parliamentary assessment No 91 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ; Nos 1316 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1328 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1340 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1357 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments No 92 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 108 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1317 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1329 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1341 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1355 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments Nos 93 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1318 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1330 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1342 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1354 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments 94 / XII ( 3 ) ( a ) ( PS ) and 111 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1319 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1331 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1343 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1359 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments 95 / XII ( 3 ) ( a ) ( PS ) and 106 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1320 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1332 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1344 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1358 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ), on parliamentary assessments 96 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 107 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1321 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1333 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1345 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1356 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ), on parliamentary assessments 97 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 109 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1322/ XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1334 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1346 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1361 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ), on parliamentary assessments 98 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 116 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1323 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1335 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1347 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1351 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments Nos 99 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 115 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1324 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1336 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1348 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1360 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments Nos 100 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 105 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1325 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1337 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1349 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1353 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments No 101 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 112 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; Nos 1326 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1338 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1350 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1352 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ) on parliamentary assessments Nos 102 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 114 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1314 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities[ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ]. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1339 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities [ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ]. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect a Vice-President to replace me. I request replacement only due to a problem of blood pressure. There is no other impediment that is not even physical. [[Pause.]] I shall try to proceed with the vote, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. We now vote on draft resolution No 1362 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( BE) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities[ Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ]. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, Mr António Filipe will replace me and proceed with the votes. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-20.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 105 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 107 / XII ( 4 ) in a general vote. ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No 272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with the measures imposed by transposing Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JAI of 23 October 2009. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No 274 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification by transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August 2009. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the vote, we have also reached the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on 25 March, Wednesday, for 15 hours, on the agenda: political statements; general discussion of draft law No 411 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the material and human conditions for the effective fulfilment of the role of protection committees and children and young people ( PCP ) ; and the assessment of petition No 395 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Submitted by Paulo Rui Lopes Pereira da Silva and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to preserve the right of the Vimarans to continue to be born in Guimarães. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 36 minutes.]]
