ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Agents, you can open the galleries. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 792 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September ( Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ), strengthening the democratic management of institutions ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 134 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 13 / 2015 of 26 January defining the objectives and principles of employment policy and regulating the design, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and financing of their programmes and measures; and draft resolutions No 1271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of the Hospital de Cantanhede within the framework of the SNS and the effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their operation ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 1272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By quality employment in tourism ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms to ensure timely payment of contracts for the provision of public education services to private and cooperative schools ( PSD / CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, with regard to parliamentary assessments Nos 127 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December, which establishes the general legal framework for the granting of public public public passenger transport service in the city of Lisbon, without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA ( Carris, SA ) ( PS ) and 128 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December 2014 establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public passenger transport service by metropolitan in the city of Lisbon and in the neighbouring municipalities of Great Lisbon, covered by the respective area corresponding to level III of the Nomenclature for Territorial and Statistical Purposes ( NUTS ), without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Metropolitan of Lisbon, EPE ( ML, EPE ), the Committee on Economics and Public Works informs that their parliamentary assessment processes should be regarded as dead, as all proposed amendments have ended up being rejected as a specialist in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then begin our work, with the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 756 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of bankruptcy and executive sales of property by tax debt ( PS ) and 787 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates an exceptional process of suspension of penhoras and coercive sales of dwellings by tax debt ( BE ). The parties proposing the initiatives have an additional 1 minute to discuss. To present the PS bill, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party proposes the suspension of the penhoras and sale of permanent own housing due to tax debts. Our proposal is based on three conditions: the first is that the capital value tax does not exceed €200 000; the second is that at least one element of the family aggregate is in a state of unemployment; the third is that this scheme is temporarily in force, while Portugal is under excessive deficit procedure. This is a proposal that we put forward to support families in very difficult economic situations, to support families who are victims of austerity, to support families who are victims of unemployment, which, unfortunately, will remain high, contrary to what the government has said in recent times. Yesterday, the European Commission put Portugal under surveillance, also due to high unemployment, today, the European Commission said that job creation will slow down and unemployment will continue at higher rates. They are bad news for the country, but mainly, they are bad news for about 1 million unemployed in Portugal. The PS proposal is not new to the government. In 2012, the Ministry of Social Security, and this same government, stopped selling own and permanent housing for social security debts, claiming that—and I read what the Ministry of Social Security said at the time—that measure was due to the need, in a crisis context and a fragile real estate market, to safeguard the dignity of the person and his right to housing. The same government, two different positions, two different sensibilities ; two ministries of the same government, different readings on the same situation. But the families who stop paying, and it is important to say this to the limit, the families who fail to fulfil their tax obligations, these families who are in very difficult economic situations, whose aggregates are, almost all of them, constituted of at least one unemployed, cease to pay their accounts for broken income. Unemployment means loss of income, it means loss of income at the end of the month. Therefore, they do not purposely, stop paying, cease fulfilling their tax obligations due to loss of income. It is known that the IMI is the tax that dominates most of the processes of penhora and sale of own and permanent dwellings by the tax. We also know that a considerable percentage of penhors relate to debts less than €2000 and up to €1000. We also know that this year the Government has chosen to lift the safeguard clause of IMI, which means that the number of families who will see their dwellings damaged by the tax will increase, because already in April the payment of the first IMI benefit will arise. So if so far this problem was considered serious, it will worsen in the coming months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Tax Authority acts as the main predator of families and businesses. The Government and the parties of the majority cannot claim that this measure questions the tax revenue, because the Court of Auditors says that only 5 % of the revenue from the sale of own and permanent dwellings due to debts to taxation is that they remain for the State, the remaining 95 % remain with the bank, because banks are the priority creditor, the preferred creditor. This means that the government behaves as a bank collector with the most disadvantaged families in Portugal. But the government here is also acting against the families themselves, deepening the economic situation of these families, because a family that sees its house broken down and sold in public terms continues with the tax debt, maintains a debt to the bank and still has to find a house to live, because it is cleared by the State itself. If the parties of the majority and the Government do not approve this proposal of the PS will only do so because this is not a tax revenue for the State, this does not represent any advantage for families, on the contrary, it further sinks the families that are in very difficult economic situation. A year ago, this majority PSD/CDS voted against this proposal. Last October, in the discussion of the 2015 State Budget, they also voted against. They have another opportunity here today to show that they are concerned and that they want to support Portuguese families who are in very difficult economic situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u5	Mrs. Members, this is how the PS bill is presented. We went on to introduce the Bill of the Left Block, to what Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the Left Block is designed to respond to an emergency. At present, we have the Tax Authority to make a brutal attack on many families in our country, whose only problem was that, as a result of the crisis, they have failed to fulfil their tax obligations and, because they have a debt greater than €150, automatically, I repeat, automatically, they see the system of penhoras being activated and acting, first, on their dwellings. To get an idea of the numbers and how there is a preference of the Finances on the dwellings, I will cite some data: in 2014, in all the sales and pawn making procedures that existed, 66 605 were related to housing, 29 300 car selling procedures, 3181 securities selling procedures. Now, these figures show that when there is a tax debt, which can only have the value of 150 €, by activating this process, there is a primary objective of the Finances, which is to act on the buildings, on the dwellings. For the Left Block, the right to housing is essential and families cannot be duly harmed. First of all, they are affected by a crisis imposed by austerity policies, which have withdrawn employment, which have decreased wages, which have withdrawn income from families, and secondly because they are pursued by a Tributary Authority which carries out the inhuman policies of the Government. We cannot accept this situation and, therefore, we propose that there be goods to be left behind for tax debts. We propose that the own and permanent housing of families cannot be questioned because there are debts to the Tax Authority. We can't watch cases like the one that shocked the country, a lady who had a tax debt on a car that no longer had, whose fines and interest in living have led to the debt value of 1900 €. She, who lived with three children and two grandchildren, who worked to support her family with income parks, saw the tax pay her home to pay a debt of € 1900. Now, the tax said that his house had a value of €19 000, but still he put the house on the « pago», trying to put that family out of the house. It's unacceptable! We cannot remain silent, while these situations are happening, and therefore we present this bill, which has an urgent response, of humanity, so that no one will remain without that fundamental right which is the right to housing and so that it is not the State who removes the dwellings from the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u7	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Santos Silva now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of all and any issues on the deepening of criteria of equity and social justice is always welcome to this House and must be the subject of the widest and most participatory debate possible, without social alarms, without demagogy and electoralist populism. Of course, because what is at stake is the public interest, respecting the principles of legality, equality, proportionality, justice, impartiality and speed, always respecting the guarantees of taxpayers. In particular in this debate, the protection of the rights of certain taxpayers subject to tax enforcement is concerned and, as such, it takes particular importance to the principle of proportionality, according to which the act of penhora should be appropriate to the concrete purpose that it intends to achieve, such as the guarantee of certain claims in coercive collection. in these circumstances, it is important to emphasize that the Tax Authority has nowadays normative instruments capable of suspending the procedures for the sale of property in order to carry out investigations to find other assets for the collection of debts, accepting even goods indicated by the citizen executed. The penalty shall be carried out only in the goods sufficient for the payment of the debt and shall start with the goods whose monetary value is easier to carry out and which are adequate to the credit that is guaranteed. Overcoming this principle is to call into question the red lines of social equity and, moreover, this government, on other related issues, has shown its capacity for dialogue and understanding regarding the difficult times we live in and that Portuguese families have lived.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u10	I would also like to say to Mr. Deputies of the Socialist Party, and even though he spoke of the IMI, which was supported by this majority, which substantially reinforced the permanent exemption of IMI for families with incomes up to €15 000 and real estate with tax assets up to €67,500. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This is one of the main costs of Portuguese families and, as such, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of fairness and justice here is also revised. There are 350 000 families, the ones that have been targeted by this measure. As such, in view of this situation, Madam President, this parliamentary group will not be accompanying the Socialist Party in this measure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u11	PCP intervention is followed. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In September last year, the finances recorded 66 000 situations of penhoras or executions of property due to tax debts. This is only a partial portrait of the grave situation which, from a social point of view, is created with the tax executions of the Portuguese dwellings over the past few years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not only a problem of tax executions, it is not only a problem of executions, of selling people's housing due to debt to finance and also social security, but it is also and, above all, in relation to the bank. There are families who after losing their jobs, after losing their allowances, after losing all their income, see themselves in the circumstances of losing their homes too, when that was the last thing that was left to them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this problem of tax executions is serious, because it is the state that gives the worst example, removing the housing to the families they needed, because it was the last thing they needed, this is a problem that must also be addressed in its private dimension and in the loss of the housing that is imposed on Portuguese families through the executions of mortgages on the part of the banks, after granting credit for their purchase. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new problem. In fact, two months ago, we discussed this about a petition that was brought to the Assembly of the Republic and the CFP presented a proposal for a solution, not only for the problem of tax executions, but also for the problem of the loss of housing in all situations where this danger arises. The proposal presented by the CFP was essentially based on four questions: on the one hand, the elimination of the possibility of loss of housing for families who no longer had incomes that could ensure their subsistence, with the very notion that housing is the last reduction in the dignity of families and that must be preserved at all costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u14	Secondly, the proposal to eliminate the possibility of loss of housing in the context of the tax enforcement process. Thirdly, if the payment of the debt is made by means of other ways, in particular by ensuring the payment of two-thirds of the loan to housing, where that is the case. Fourth and lastly, the proposal to prevent the sale of the house where the value made with that sale is less than that which could be obtained by another way, in particular by virtue of the burden of other goods and incomes that may exist. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal corresponds to the resolution of all problems with the sale of dwellings due to the execution of mortgages. This was an answer that could be given, safeguarding the homes of the Portuguese and the minimum conditions of comfort in their lives, and on the other hand ensuring that the satisfaction of the credits or the payment of the debts behind the sale of the dwellings is not disproportionately done, as often happens by tax executions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when in 2013 the Civil Procedure Code was amended, we warned here, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the declaration of vote that we tabled on the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, that, with the rules introduced in that Code, a Portuguese that earns the national minimum wage and that has a debt of €800 may lose his house to satisfy that debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u15	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u16	And this is a reality that, unfortunately, has been confirmed, with the situations that today are publicly known and disseminated, with the news that every day there are multiple situations like these. This is an unfair rule that needs to be changed. This step must be taken, this first step, in order to put an end to the sale of Portuguese housing for tax debts, finding another way to guarantee the payment of these debts. But it is also necessary to go to the bottom of the problem and to change those rules which, through the Civil Procedure Code, in other relations, particularly in credit relations with the bank, unfortunately have determined for so many thousands of Portuguese families the loss of their housing when they have already lost everything else. That's not fair, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u17	The intervention to be made by the CDS-PP is continuing. Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this proposal, I could not fail to make a reference initially to the intervention which the Socialist Party has made here. It was mentioned that the European Commission had Portugal under surveillance. Mr President, from our point of view, there is indeed no novelty in the fact that Portugal still has major challenges to overcome. But there is something new here: is that Portugal has become under surveillance because it has completed the Economic and Financial Assistance Program... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u19	... where the government of your party has placed us and has left us, becoming able to be on this list. Go read the list and see if Greece and if Cyprus are on that list, Member of the European Parliament! Go read the list and see if they're there! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We have never denied that the country has gone through a difficult time, which has challenges to overcome. But contrary to what the Socialist Party also says in this project, in fact, in the course of the exception of the programme, the Government has been able to make the measures more flexible, particularly in relation to the objectives of the deficit. [[PS protests.]] The Socialist Party lacks memory in this regard, because there are several statements, Mr President, particularly concerning the fact that the Socialist Party's Government has protracted the time when it asked for help. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u20	For a long time, the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party knew that Portugal needed to ask for help. And it was the European Commission itself, at the time, who also recognized that the programme of economic and financial assistance that was implemented could have been lighter and less austere if the Socialist Party had in time recognized this need and the hole in which our country was entering. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u21	With regard to this project, the financial difficulties of families, honourable Member, also have much to do with the uncertainty and mistrust generated in the economic fabric and in the entrepreneurs. And it is the certainty and the confidence that we can recover that they help us to grow again, help us to create jobs, help unemployment to be diminished and the difficult conditions in which the Portuguese people have been living tending to attenuate. Then, Mr President, I would also like to remind you that it is not just us who say that the country is better. I now remember the proverbs 'by the mouth the fish dies' and 'the truth always comes to the top', but the fact is that the country, Mr President, is quite different. With regard to this debate and this proposal in particular, in fact, from the radical left we were already expecting everything, and we were expecting the principle of everything for everyone, free of charge. Now, the Socialist Party would expect another position, because the Socialist Party's proposal creates an exception here in such a broad and broad manner that this exception would become a rule. We simply understand and have a notion of the capital value of the real estate, because we know that 70 % of the real estate in Portugal has a capital value of less than € 125 000. And we have to demystify an important point, because the Socialist Party is working with wrong data. The buildings mentioned here are not housing houses, they are offices, they are land, they are garages, they are commercial establishments. Mr President, when it comes to real estate, you understand, in fact, what you are referring to. It is clear and very important that the Tax Authority has a principle of balance and proportionality in its work. But this is simply to comply with the law, because the law already provides that it is so and that there is a mechanism of adequacy and justice in the application of these practices. But let me also tell you one thing, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party: the system...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u22	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u23	I shall now finish, Madam President, by saying that the coercive collection system has helped to reduce the number of prescribed debts. at the time of the Socialist Party government, there were EUR 1276 million in prescribed debts; today they are in debt EUR 45 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u24	What I ask you, sir, is this principle...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u25	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u26	I shall now finish, Madam President, by asking whether it is not a principle which also guarantees equality, equity and social justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you again to respect regimental time. I will now give the floor, because it requires it, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva, of the PSD, which has little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u28	Madam President, I will try to be as soon as possible. I wanted to explain to BE that it's not because a person has 150 € penhora that's going to run out of the house! [[How obvious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u29	Two moments ago: one of them is the penhora and the other moment is the tax execution, it is the sale of the house. Objectively, people have other alternatives. Today, the Tax Authority gives people this opportunity... [[That's not true!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u30	... to be able to pay, in cash, directly, the 150 €. It is demagogy, pure and hard, what you bring here. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u31	It's social alarm, I'd say. With regard to the Socialist Party, which sets a time limit for this bill, which is the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, I ask you, honourable Member, if, from the end of this year, of 2015, in which Portugal will have 2, 7% deficit and therefore we will leave the excessive deficit procedure, the debts will end. Will tax debts end at that time? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u32	So it is perfectly popular as they bring us here. But I would still remind the Socialist Party of another situation with which he committed himself. We are used here to talking about the troika and in which the Socialist Party does not comply, but the Socialist Party, on this matter, has been very "friend" to the Portuguese within the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u33	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u34	I will finish Mrs. President. Mr President, what the PS wrote there : the creation of a new system of tax arbitration until the end of July 2011 ; the inclusion of interest on the value of debt using a higher market rate — this for families with difficulties, is very good! ... — and a special fee for those who fail to comply with an arbitral tribunal decision! Madam President, I could not fail to express here the Socialist Party's commitments when you asked for the financial bailout to save the country from bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u35	He also asked for the floor on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, in this debate you see a lot of the evil that is always in the Assembly of the Republic — many accusations for very few solutions, and the parties of the majority are again against the people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u37	Here they come! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u38	They have already announced that they will rise against families and what they accuse of being demagogy, after all, is the reality of people's lives. Mr. Carlos Santos Silva said that there is no one left without the house for debts of 150 €. And, moreover, there is the possibility of paying because it is two moments, the moment of trouble and the time of fiscal execution. Mr. Member, the family of Ilhavo in Aveiro, which I referred to had a debt that did not reach 500 €, because after all they had not paid off the car they had already sold and the single traffic tax in debt was almost 500 € ; to add to that, they had fines and interest of respite and the total gave 1900 €. For this reason, the tax, the Tax Authority, fulfilling the law that the Government and the majority have approved, wanted to punish them at home, the house worth €19 000 of tax value. He just didn't regret because the neighbors, society got up and supported this family, not because of the will of the tax, not because the law defended people, not because the members of the majority had risen up to defend the people of this inhumanity, but because there was a society that got up...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u39	There was a collection!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u40	... and said: "No, this is not acceptable! This law is not acceptable and this family cannot be left without the house! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He gathered money, paid the debt. Now, or we change the law and say that it is not acceptable in our country, that, for situations like this, people have to be without their permanent and own housing home, the only one they have, or we are being pleased with a brutal injustice. And this is the choice that's on the table. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, I ask you: are you going to stand up against families again? It is that we are coming to the end of the mandate and I ask you to remember if you want to leave these policies of injustice as a legacy to the country. They have a final example here to show that they are on the side of people and solutions, and it is not with more debates, complications, accusations, it is very little to make a policy that really defends a public interest, because public interest is always the interest of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u41	We have concluded the debate on the two previously identified bills. We now turn to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1258 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends measures to protect the fishing sector for sardines and shark fishermen and shipowners ( CFP ), 1277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to support, assess and protect the fishing sector for sardine ( BE) and 1274 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the sardine fisheries sector ( PS ). Mr. João Ramos has the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the fishermen and the union leaders who are in the galleries today. in the last five months, Portugal has suffered a strong restriction on the fishing of sardine, which determined the stop of fishing for more than three months, at the end of 2014, to which it added the stop for defense for two months, at the beginning of this year. in total, it will be almost six months of stopping. The Portuguese Government has determined a sustained stop in reducing the amount of sardine in the sea. however, despite the north fishermen and shipowners notice less sardine in the sea, the centre and south this lack is not noted. The fact that studies are not made public and that they are not fully known by the sector does not help to dispel doubts. Mrs. Members, the Government says that the decisions are taken in conjunction with the sector, but in fact they are only taken with part of the sector, since the Monitoring Committee integrates the Government and producer organisations, leaving out unorganized boats and fishermen. The CFP has no doubt as to the need to safeguard resources, particularly resources of economic importance. But the CFP also has no doubt that it is necessary to safeguard the fishermen and the fishing of the fence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u44	If nothing is done to safeguard the sector it may happen that, later on, there is a sardine to fish but there are no fishermen and no boats to catch it. And then it'll come from outside who does it. In 2009, about 65 000 tonnes of sardine were captured in 2011, 55 000 tonnes were captured in 2014, this volume increased to 14 000 tonnes, which will remain in 2015. Thus, in two consecutive years, 2014 and 2015, catches of sardine will be at least 40 000 t below what was usual between 2007 and 2011. Limitations to catches have implications for the yield of vessels and fishermen. The fleet stopping may call into question the future of the circle fishing in our country, which cannot be maintained as seasonal activity. This situation calls into question the productive sector and thousands of jobs — only in the vicinity will be around 2000, but also in fishing ports as the lot has about 500 workers throughout the country. Also the canning sector, which was working at the end of the year with chilled sardines, coming from outside, can suffer from these problems. Units that are being fostered may, in the short term, close the doors or become strong importers of raw material. The country's fishing history, particularly through European integration, is a drastic reduction in the national fleet and the number of fishermen, benefiting from fleets from other countries which have continued to fish and sell to Portugal. Between 1990 and 2012, the fleet decreased by 48 %, the number of jobs decreased by 58 %, the catch decreased by 37 % and the degree of self-supply increased from 79 % to 43 %. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the measures decided have been insufficient, in particular with regard to the early non-development of research and the definition of measures itself. at this time, there are only measures defined until the end of May, when the fishing limitation is already known until the end of the year. in this sense, the CFP presents solutions to the problem, in particular at the level of research, evaluation and possible reformulation of the support measures, control and management of the sardine sold on national markets and also extraordinary measures to support the fishing of the fence. Sardine fishing is of economic, social and cultural importance. Deep changes in this sector have implications for the lives of fishermen, shipowners and fishing communities. The CFP has proposals to monitor the problem and reduce its implications and these are the proposals we bring here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u45	Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor to present the draft resolution of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The stopover of sardine fishing has caused serious problems to the sector, first of all, those who live in fisheries, but has also had a very negative impact on the canning industry and throughout the life of fishing communities in our country. It is important, from now on at the beginning of the debate, to make it clear that it is not, nor has it ever been, the need to preserve the sardine. In fact, fishermen and shipowners are the first to defend that this resource must be protected and do not wish, in any way, the scenario in which fishing for sardine is banned for several years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u48	however, we cannot ignore the consequences of the six-month stoppage, such as that at this time. The circle fishing sector does not survive with such long stops if other support measures are not taken. The concern reaches fishermen, shipowners, but also hits the autoarchs who see their communities in increasingly difficult situations at the moment. The share of sardine fishing has suffered a drastic reduction in recent years, as we all know. This is a scenario that remains in 2015 and will lead to new stops with the social consequences that are not difficult to guess, which, in turn, will lead to reduced capacity installed in the national fishing fleet and forced emigration of many people from fishing communities. It must also be said that the solution pointed out by the Government — which was famous for the phrase 'fishing horse, fishing carapau' — does not solve the problem. First, because it means a drastic reduction in the income of those who live in fishing. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot close our eyes to this, which is a determining aspect: the carapou cabaz — and, for those who do not know, the carapau cabaz has 22 kg — it has reached minimum values: 5 € per cabaz! There is no one who resists that level of income. Secondly, the displacement of the entire fleet of sardine fisheries to other species would lead to an inability to evacuate all this alternative fish. In view of this situation, action is required by the Government and the Left Block here brings its contribution on this matter. First of all, we consider it important to redefine extraordinary support during fishing periods, particularly because of biological defence. Secondly, to make the scientific studies that underpin these stops public and accessible, because it is essential to share this knowledge and to know the opinion of the sector on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u49	Mr Jorge Fão has the floor to present the PS draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem faced by the sardine fisheries sector with the art of the siege has really reached the importance and dimension of national debate. The evidence of this is the increasing attention and time-saving that the media have given to this matter and, of course, the scheduling of a debate on this issue in the Assembly of the Republic, involving all political parties. It is therefore undeniable the importance of sardine fishing at the political, economic, social and cultural levels of our country and, in particular, at the interests and problems of the fishing community. This is a question that must be addressed in the space of science, in the space of technology and in the space of environmental sustainability, but it is also a problem that must also be addressed in the context of political debate and, therefore, today, we are dealing with this matter. The rounding fleet represents about 40 % of the fishing vessels in our country, is responsible for about 45 % of the annual catch volume of fish and occupies a high percentage of the turnover of domestic fish marketing — not only the sardine, but the carapou, the biking, the horse, etc. , all species caught by this type of fleet. The weight of this Portuguese fishing fleet is indeed of great importance and is a generator factor of thousands of direct and indirect jobs, from the sea to the sea, in the preparation of the crafts and in the organization of what are the arts and, of course, also on land, throughout the marketing circuit and, in particular, in the processing industry and in the conservation industry. The feasibility of all this economic activity and all these jobs obviously depends, and above all, on the fishing possibilities of this species, which is the sardine. After, in 2012, if significant worsenings have been found in the state of stocks of this species in the Portuguese Sea, we are all, of course, responsible for contributing to combat this problem and finding solutions for it, and since this year, it was drastic the reduction of catches. In 2010, already mentioned here, we captured 58 000 tonnes of sardine per year and in 2014 we captured about 14 000 tonnes, which means an 80 % reduction. But the problem is that, in 2015, we have not yet realized concretely what are the rules for this fishing in our country. Therefore, this situation is causing difficulties in the sustainability of the fleet and jobs. However, we have lost the certification of the blue label of the Portuguese sardine, there are strong restrictions on public supply and, in particular, there are serious problems in providing this raw material to the conservation industry. Honestly, it would not be serious or politically correct to blame the Minister of Agriculture for reducing the stock of sardines or for falling catches. But it is the time and place to point out responsibilities and accuse this government and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea because it has clearly devalued the political importance of the fisheries sector in this great discourse on the economy of the sea. This government has also been mismanagement of the use of PROMAR's potentials. In 220 million euros available, we will surely lose and inevitably more than 20 million. These rulers have agreed very late on this problem of reducing sardine fisheries and still do not, in our view, give due attention to the extremely negative impacts caused by the reduction of this fishery. It is therefore necessary to demand political responsibility from Dr. Assumption Cristas, Minister for Agriculture and the Sea, and the Secretary of State, for the devaluation of the fisheries sector and, above all, for the inevitable wastes of high funds in the financial instrument supporting Portuguese fishing on the 2007 / 2013 horizon. in this specific area of sardine fishing, it is clearly called on this Government to pay more attention and, above all, appropriate solutions to the problems caused by this drastic reduction in the volume of catches. That is why the PS is in this debate and that is why the PS recommends to the Government : firstly, it plans in a different and more timely way the biological stops and defences of this fishery; that it avoids the precipitation that happened, with serious losses to the sector in 2014 ; that it undertakes a greater political effort in dialogue with the European Commission to integrate within the framework of the European Maritime Affairs Fund and the spirit of the common fisheries policy for the horizon 2014 / 2020, the eligibility of the funds necessary for the financial compensation that this sector requires. Moreover: more competences and more regular functioning of the Sardinian Monitoring Committee are required and, finally, there is a strong incentive for the scientific community to deepen scientific research on this species, to be provided with the resources needed to ensure that this monitoring is more regular, timely and persistent and, frankly, because it seems essential to us, that the dialogue between the scientific community, the academy and the fisheries sector be strengthened through producer organisations. Only with this combination of efforts and, in particular, with this political investment in the fisheries sector, particularly in Sardinia, can we improve the state of this problem in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u51	Mr João Paulo Viegas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first and after listening to Mr Fão, is it almost appropriate to ask: where was the Socialist Party and investments in the fisheries sector in recent years, i.e. in the period prior to 2011? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u53	It is that this is not a matter for now, it is a matter that has been raised for some time. If we currently have a Minister for Agriculture and the Sea, in the governments of the Socialist Party we had a ministry that, from time to time, remembered that there was agriculture and that there was never a word in the sea! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is important that this should be said and I should say more: this question of sardine fishing and the creation of the sardine fisheries monitoring group is precisely the need to ensure the sustainability of this species and the fishermen, so that this is not a reality today but it is a reality in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u55	We have a perfect notion, as well as this government, of the importance of sardine fishing for fishing communities. It must be said once and for all that in recent years this has been largely accompanied by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. As evidence of this, a request from the Socialist Party was approved this week to listen to the Committee on the Monitoring of Sardinia and, therefore, even at the hearing with Mr. Secretary of State for the Sea, many of these issues which are presented here today in these draft resolutions have been properly clarified. It is important that you say it and make these notes. Until, as you know, this government, precisely to prevent the stopping situation of vessels, created a support of EUR 4 million for the fleet and for fishermen who effectively wanted to stop ( one part of the fleet wanted to stop and the other part did not want to stop ). What we have said at the hearing of the Secretary of State for the Sea in the Commission is what we have told fishermen and fishermen's organisations and what is more important for the CDS-PP and what we have defended is that, whenever there is a need for stops, the entire fleet can continue to work. The question of horse and carapou is also extremely important to keep the fleet running. in this sense, this government has created programmes and campaigns to enhance fishing both the carapau and the horse.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u56	Mr. Secretary of State who's going to catch a carapou!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u57	Mr Jorge Machado, it is also not in the way that you said that Mr « Mr. Secretary of State will fish carapou' to settle whatever it is! You didn't make any contribution! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u58	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u59	Mr President, it is enough to read the draft resolution of the Communist Party. Despite the reduction of 40 000 tonnes, the value of catches in 2013 was the same as that of 2004. We also know that the recovery of the sardine is also largely due to the fact that we have fewer catches. I call on the various parliamentarians to hold this debate in a serious way to ensure the sustainability of the sector and the fleet. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u60	Show this study! Prove what he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u61	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Helena Pinto for her reflections, which I consider to have made a very balanced intervention. basically, when we are dealing with this issue, we have first of all to ensure the protection and safeguarding of resources. If we do not have this assumption as a fundamental element of any public policy in this area, we cannot respond to fishermen or shipowners or respond to the sustainability of fishing or preserve ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u64	I therefore believe that we are all able to emphasise, in communion, this political position that must be shared. The honourable Member said something else with which I very much agreed, that it was the circumstance to expect that solutions should be studied in this regard. Despite the proposals made by the three political forces of the opposition and by the majority there is no draft resolution on this matter, the insufficient truth is that whoever first woke up to these difficulties was, no more or less — it seems! — the Government. It was when the Government decided, on the one hand, to activate the wage compensation fund, mobilising EUR 4 million for this purpose, to ensure the economic and social cohesion of the areas most affected by the stops that some say are unexpected but were not due to the fall in catches that have been registered since 2004. On the other hand, it was the Government when it had the opportunity to announce that it would monitor resources more rigorously, acquiring pioneering equipment that it could, together with shipowners, with fishermen, with the economic agents of this activity, offer better conditions to be able to revise, if justified, catches for 2015. What we have to do, on the one hand, is ensure, as has been said, that there is an increasing appreciation not only of the sardine, which has been registered due to the balance of supply and demand — since there has been a significant decrease in catches — but also, in the medium and long term, of the horse and of other species that may become relevant and be part of our food card.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u65	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u66	Therefore, this is a structural and essential element to ensure this sustainability. In conclusion, I would say that there is something we have achieved in 2010 and that we cannot lose, neither fishermen nor shipowners nor the government itself: certification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u67	What's the certification now for?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u68	It was the first time there was certification and we needed to recover. What is the result of this certification? It comes from the circumstances of terms of the highest biomass and of terms of sustainability. So if we lose the certification, we're devaluing the product and we have to fight it. We do not want to devalue the product. Therefore, we cannot be demagogic, we must be correct and demanding in our analysis. We cannot give in to electoralist instincts, and we must place ourselves with fishermen and shipowners, with confidence in the future, with serious and rigorous commitments and not with chimeras which we cannot ensure, under the penalty of getting rid of sardine fishing and jeopardizing their own lives and environmental sustainability. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u69	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to greet the fishermen and their representatives who are attending the work and say that, from the perspective of the Greens, there are three absolutely central aspects which must be mentioned when we talk about sardine fishing. On the one hand, I refer to its economic and cultural importance, on the other hand, that the fishing of the sardine represents the main financial support for many fishing communities and, finally, its importance as a raw material for the conservation sector. Despite the importance of sardine fishing, the fact is that its catch has fallen frighteningly: of the 65 000 t fished in 2009 we went to 14 000 t last year, which is, to all titles, worrying. As we also know, the sardine fishing met a stop in September last year. in fact, the government determined, through the door, the stop of fishing from September 20 to the end of the year. We also know that this stop was motivated by criteria of apparently scientific nature, which nobody knows, and it happens that both shipowners and fishermen stayed with the idea that this year there was no lack of sardine, even there was a lot of sardine, unlike what happened in other years, in which they noticed there was not so much sardine and in which there was no stopping. Whatever the case, the fact is that we arrived at the loading situation of the Portuguese fishermen being banned from fishing sardine, but the sardine never missed even in the monsters of hypermarkets or in the markets—there was sardine full! Now, this led the Portuguese to wonder: what kind of world is this? If fishermen cannot fish how is there so much sardine on the market? Oh, my God! This finding also reinforced the need of the Government to clarify and make public the scientific studies that supported its decision to stop fishing for sardine. I listened very carefully to the speech of the honourable Member and did not hear him mention the studies. I'm sorry. We are still waiting for the dissemination of these studies. Mr President, there is no question of the possible need to preserve the species, which is at issue is the need to publish these studies because we have to know. Admitting that the studies are correct and that the stop has even been justified, because it is intended to protect a common good, support is also needed for people living from sardine fishing. We need to find some balance here. We can't be trying to preserve the species by letting the fishermen starve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u72	There must be some balance here. In this situation, the government has pressed to set a stop, but has not pressed to set the support criteria, which took 10 days after the stop, with effect only on 15 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u73	It's only 10 days!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u74	We're about a month ago, Mr. Artur Rêgo! 10 days? Oh, my God! The government has rushed to set the stop. If it's nothing to you, when it comes to the fishermen, tell them that 10 days is nothing. Given that the support was to be delivered on 15 October, add 15 more, and tell the fishermen that they can spend 25 days without eating that they are still full of strength.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u76	The worst is the fact that this stop until December 31 if you have followed the defense stop, which usually occurs at this time. So for the first time, we had a defense stop that was preceded by a three-month stop, which remains unsupported. However, in view of this exceptional situation, it is more than fair that the Government is looking for a solution that guarantees support for the cessation of the defence. Therefore, in addition to the need of the government to make public the apparently scientific studies that substantiated this extraordinary stoppage, it is necessary to explain to what should be due the reductions in the catch quotas for 2014 and 2015, because on this we have not heard anything from the parties of the majority either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u77	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u78	I will finish, Madam President. On the other hand, it is also important for the Government to consider the need to promote extraordinary measures to support round fishing. That's why it's not worth it! 10 days may not be anything for Mr Artur Rego, but for fishermen, 10 days without eating is a lot! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u79	Debates are a long way off when you are a Member of the House. Members use another third of the time. by the Block of the Left, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u80	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, I am glad that you also want a balanced debate on this subject. In his words, I can see only one consequence: it will certainly vote in favour of the resolutions presented here, because these are absolutely balanced proposals. That's what we're discussing here. What we are discussing here is measures for the government to equalise — and it has legislative scope for this, both national and European — extraordinary support for fishermen during fishing periods, including a defence stop. If we're all in agreement with that, I think we're moving out of here. We need to give support to these people, including in the period of defence closure. Fishermen cannot be without going to sea and without receiving anything in return. This is a first conclusion that has to be drawn. The second conclusion to be drawn, and it is absolutely balanced, is that scientific knowledge needs to be deepened, but not only. You need to share it, share it! In fact, fishermen, as we all know, have an empirical knowledge of the situation which cannot be underestimated; on the contrary, it must be valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u81	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u82	I conclude, Madam President. And now, Mr President, I hope that I will also vote in favour of the measure proposed by the Left Block to assess the impact of oil exploration along the Portuguese coast made by Galp and Petrobras, because this may have had a lot of influence on the stock of the sardine and all responsibilities must be assumed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u83	Mr Ramos of the CFP, to speak again. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u84	Madam President, Mr. João Paulo Viegas, let me give you something new: the support for the stop is over, there is no more. They worked until the end of the year, but now the boats are stopped, fishermen are forced to sign up for the Employment Centre to survive and no support for next stops are defined.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u86	Mr Cristovão Norte, the CFP spoke about the balance and importance of preserving resources. It is important to preserve the sardine, but it is also important to preserve the fishermen and the fishing of the siege and on this matter the government does not have very concrete measures that meet this need. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like not to miss the opportunity to ask you about how you will be positioned tomorrow on concrete proposals, before the establishment of a working group with the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere involving fishermen and shipowners, a permanent working group to accompany research matters, which the fishermen do not know. And I'm not talking about the monitoring committee, which only has the OPs, producer organisations; I'm talking about a group with the research entity. How will they be positioned tomorrow before the payment during the defence, which payment the Community regulations foresee may exist? How will they be positioned tomorrow before the identification of the catch areas of the sardine, bearing in mind that there may be sardine that is caught within the forbidden and downloaded areas outside these areas, particularly by the Spanish fleet? How will they position themselves on the evaluation and revision of the system of support for initiatives? Unfortunately, we haven't heard anything about it. Let's hope the ladies tomorrow. Members can follow these proposals, because whoever is against them is against the sector, is against the country and, unfortunately, by the majority, we are already used to this. Let us hope that tomorrow you will change your position and that you will be able to follow seriously a number of proposals and recommendations to the Government to safeguard the resources, but also to safeguard the fishermen and the fishing of the fence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u87	The joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1258, 1277 and 1274 / XII ( 4. ( a ), we will move on to point 3, which consists of the joint debate of draft resolutions 1243 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Stability and financing of the specialized artistic education network ( BE ), 1259 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of funding to be allocated to specialized artistic educational establishments and the promotion of measures to ensure the compensation of increased charges resulting from the delay in the transfer of funds and to prevent further delays in contracts to be carried out in subsequent school years ( PS ), 1256 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National programme for the enhancement and expansion of the public network of specialized artistic education ( CFP ) and 1268 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regularization of payments to specialized artistic schools ( The Greens ). We will start the debate, following the order of presentation of the draft resolutions. Thus, in order to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, as you should know, we had, until minutes ago, students of the National Conservatory playing in the stairwells of the Assembly of the Republic, so that we should not forget that the drips are not metronomes and that the students must be able to study without fear that the ceiling will fall on their heads. Now, we have teachers, students, specialized artistic schools here so that we don't forget that in Portugal something is happening that we thought impossible. When a child is in public school he passes from the Portuguese class, in which the teacher has his salary, to the music class, in which the teacher has the salary four months in delay. This is what is happening every day in our schools, in public school: teachers working every day with our children, with our young people, fulfilling their curricula and who are not receiving wages. They are different problems, either in the Conservatory or in the financing of artistic education, but they have the same roots and have had the same attitude of accountability on the part of the Government. The same root is the deinvestment in teaching and the particular disregard for artistic education. The same disresponsibility shadow game because we are debating in the Assembly of the Republic a subject that is the responsibility of the Government, which would not even need to be discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic and which could and should be resolved. I would point out that two days ago, they told the Left Block that it was not necessary for Minister Nuno Crato to come here to explain what was going on in the National Conservatory because it was all sent and everything was resolved. The students closed the school, today there was a human cordon, the works still didn't begin nor does anyone know how the Conservatory classrooms can reopen. And we have the theme that motivated this schedule that the Left Block brought, which is the financing of artistic education. Here too, the Government has said several times that the problem is solved and I remember you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 30 schools that have not yet received the money, which is yours, which is late and that we continue to have teachers with four and five months of late wages. What the Left Block proposes is as simple as this: to give immediately the funding that is due to the music schools that are part of the public school as regards the teaching of music. You have to pay now! The State cannot be a farmer, it cannot have teachers working with late wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u90	Secondly, it is necessary for the State to assume the problem of debts to social security and taxation, because those who did not receive wages were still in a debt situation because they did not have wages to pay the debt! And now you see the absurdity: as there are debts, you cannot receive the state money, because you have to prove that the situation is regular. This is a vicious cycle that completely crushes these teachers and these schools. Therefore, as the debt is of the State, the State must assume, it cannot allow this situation to continue. I remember that this problem is linked to the problem of banking interest which these institutions have, because, as the state owes them money, they had to make commitments with the bank and the government's delay always ends up giving so much profit to the bank and then completely de-responsibility about what happens every day in each of these schools, with each of these teachers and with these students. Finally, what is needed is that the next school year is being prepared. The shame of this school year cannot be repeated again! Artistic education has to work normally! Artistic education has given a lesson to the country, country raised and demanding. It is up to this Assembly of the Republic to meet that requirement. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u91	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, I begin by greeting the teachers, employees, families and students of the specialized artistic schools here present and, in VV. For example, all the academies and conservatories of music that daily struggle to dignify artistic education and continue to be determined to ensure a public service of quality education. More than a hundred specialized artistic schools experience an unacceptable situation because they have not received state funding in due time. The incompetence of the Government by not transferring the funds provided for in the contracts concluded between schools and the Ministry has been without maturity for several months more than 3000 teachers and employees. The situation they are going through is dramatic. The government's unqualified failure to comply with these schools forced some to accumulate tax and social security debts and have to suspend their activity. In all this process, Minister Nuno Crato had no dignified behaviour: it prevented the regular functioning of the institutions; it hindered the students; it failed to consider the work of teachers and employees; it was unable to properly prepare the start of the school year; it proved incompetent to solve, with speed, the situation that he himself created or even be able to indicate a forecast to carry out the transfer of funds. The Ministry of Education is the only one to blame for the unqualified mistakes made, but he has still tried to apologize, particularly with the Court of Auditors. It strongly discredited the confidence that citizens should place in the State. And in the face of all this, Minister Nuno Crato did not assume any responsibility, he did not propose any solution to the damage caused, nor did he have a word for all those whom he harmed. The country cannot, due to the incompetence of the government and its policies, harm the students of specialized music and dance teaching. Music learning contributes to cognitive, emotional and social development — these students have very good school performances. On the other hand, the sustainability of these academies and conservatories enhances the cultural dynamization of the regions where they are, with very significant sociocultural impact and at the level of the economy. in the defense of specialized artistic education, the Socialist Party presents a draft resolution recommending the government to comply scrupulously and promptly with the funding obligations with the schools of artistic education; to assume the added charges that schools had to do; to guarantee the compensation of the classes that students lost. We live in a rule of law and this is the right of all students to specialized education in music and dance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u93	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party all the schools of artistic education, teachers, students and parents who have worked, over the past few months, a firm and courageous struggle to defend the right to education and culture. I welcome the entire educational community of the National Conservatory's School of Music for the courageous struggle that have been halting for its safety and I would like to convey our deep solidarity for the urgent need to carry out works in that building. On the discussion that we do today, the PCP presents solutions for two different realities: on the one hand, for the nine schools that integrate the public specialized artistic education network and, on the other, for the schools and music academies of private and cooperative education. in these schools, the situation is unsustainable and unacceptable and reveals a deep contempt of this PSD/CDS government for the life of these schools, through the course of these students, for the life of these professionals, and we understand that this is unacceptable. They are more than 120 schools, more than 50,000 students, more than 3000 teachers, more than 300 employees who have seen their lives postponed in recent months. The former Government of the Socialist Party decided and the current PSD/CDS Government maintained the replacement of funding to these schools, replacing the State Budget with funds from the POPH (Human Potential Operational Programme). The CFP argues — and has put forward proposals in this regard — that funding for these schools should always be made through State Budget money and not through the POPH, because this is incompatible with the lives of schools, with the holiday allowance and the Christmas allowance of teachers, with the payment to employees, with the payment of electricity, with the payment of income, with the payment of the operating expenses of these schools. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the CFP understands that today is the time to give a signal to specialized artistic education and to move from speech to acts. Public investment in specialized artistic education translates into the degradation of the wealth of accumulated knowledge, the waste of highly qualified professionals and the dream of young people to want to study music, dance and arts. The existence in the national territory of only seven public schools of artistic education is well revealing this conception of successive governments regarding artistic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u95	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u96	Disinvestment in the working conditions of these schools is a shame. And I should be ashamed of this government that there are students who had to close the National Conservatory Music School today because the ceiling was falling on their heads and instruments. This is unacceptable and should require urgent measures and serious commitments from the Ministry of Education. The PCP refuses to close schools. The CFP refuses to deny the lives of these young people of dreams to study what they have as passion and the devaluation and unemployment in the lives of these professionals. The CFP proposes that the payment of all transfers in debt to the academies and conservatories of music and dance, the replacement of funding via POPH through State budget funds and the establishment of a national programme for the extension of the public artistic education network, with the guarantee of adequate means, so that it is dignified and valued. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u97	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the country is filled by artistic schools and, as we know, it is not for good reasons, it is for issues of failure in funding, either in the public, or in private and cooperative schools, so that they can function properly and with dignity, and the dignity of their professionals. Today, the National Conservatory Music School has called on the country that does not have the conditions to operate safely and that the Ministry does not come forward to promote these security conditions. And there are professionals in specialized artistic schools who cry out to the country, in particular the government, conditions of survival, so that they will be paid the wages due to them for their work, because they fail the payment to be able to survive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we are discussing the most basic things that affect the dignity of the Portuguese people, in the most diverse sectors, in the most diverse situations. I think this is perfectly unacceptable! And what does the Ministry of Education do in these circumstances? He pretends that he does not listen, does not even listen, blame the Court of Auditors, who returns them immediately, calling the Minister of Incompetent Education. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the country cannot live in these circumstances. What has happened with specialized artistic schools is absolutely intolerable: situations of wage delays and incapacity for payment of a set of commitments that schools have, including with finance and social security. Even the case of specialized artistic schools that, strangled by this situation, were seen in the imminent or even forced to close doors. It's in front of this reality that we are. the inexcusable mistakes made by the Ministry of Education at the level of teacher placement — we all remember well this school year — add these unqualified errors to the processes for financing specialized artistic schools. This is another demonstration, we repeat, of the government's disrespect and incompetence with regard to education in this country. That is why the Greens are now proposing to the Assembly of the Republic: firstly, the urgent payment of the funds due to specialized artistic schools is made; Second, that immediate attention should be given to ensuring that none of the schools concerned ceases to provide specialized artistic education in this school year for reasons related to the delay in the allocation of funds; Third, freeing the schools concerned from any additional charges with external entities, caused by delays in payment of funds; Fourthly, that the Government shall send to the Assembly of the Republic, within one month, detailed information on the financial regularisation of specialized artistic schools; Fifth, which provides funding for these schools through the State budget, which we consider to be absolutely necessary. Finally, Mr President, I would like to launch here, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, an enormous greeting to the teachers, officials, students and families of these specialized artistic schools, who have been so deeply affected by this situation, but who have not lowered their arms and have also claimed by the Assembly of the Republic that someone here was their spokesperson and, more specifically, that he proposed, that this is what The Greens are doing here today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Ester Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we look at a set of initiatives presented by opposition parties, aimed at specialized artistic education, with particular emphasis on the issues of its financing. Specialized artistic education plays an important role in the diversity of the public educational offer, and the contribution that has been made in the training of young people who choose this way of teaching, which goes far beyond the specific artistic training taught, taking into account the set of competences at aesthetic, civic, social level, among others, that helps to develop. Its financing, whether through national funds or Community funds, has been guaranteed by the State through sponsorship contracts, concluded between entities holding private and cooperative educational establishments operating in this field and the Ministry of Education and Science. As is known, in the current school year, the financing of these institutions was marked by delays in the payment of the contractual values, delays that caused constraints and instability in its management and in its normal functioning, the situation we regret. to what we know, the cases detected are almost all solved at this time, and it is important to highlight the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science has from the very first moment carried out the necessary efforts to solve all problematic situations within the shortest possible time. In fact, the money has been coming to the schools concerned, corresponding to the normality necessary to its operation. We therefore stress the solution to this problem, but we consider this to be the time to prepare the launch of the next school year, so as to avoid repeated delays in payments made by the State in relation to the values agreed with the specialized artistic schools. More: we also believe that all private and cooperative schools that have contracted the provision of the public education service should receive the appropriate participations in good time so that they can carry out their mission without any limitation in this regard. It is precisely because this situation concerns us, and because we understand that it is not desirable for schools to live moments of financial uncertainty that may call into question their functioning, we have brought into the Bureau, together with our partner of coalition, a draft resolution, which will be discussed in committee, in which the Government is advised to set up mechanisms to ensure the timely payment of contracts for the provision of public education services to private and cooperative schools. With this initiative, we intend to contribute to overcome once and for all the constraints that have occurred, ensuring that the significant number of students of basic and secondary schools attending this type of education in private schools are in the same situation as those who would attend it in public schools. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to congratulate the professors and representatives of the artistic schools present here. It is consensual today that centralized teaching pathway models do not serve the interests of students and are already exceeded. And, as each student has its own needs and ambitions, the only way to ensure and prepare for the future of each of these students is to ensure diversity within the public education system, including various educational pathways, including private and public institutions. however, in spite of this being an understanding that goes far beyond the CDS, because all the governments before us have in some way contributed to this diversity, it is also true that all governments have been unable to value the ways of teaching, such as specialized artistic education or the professional, as much as the so-called'scientific-humanistic courses' are valued. The system remains too standardized and, even within these ways, there is no understanding that respects its own difference. It is because we have not yet completely overcome this chronic deficiency that we are facing, on some regular basis, problems in the financing models and the resources available to these schools. Today, we focus on the debate in one of these ways: specialized artistic education, which is ensured by national conservatories and by several academies spread across the country. There are two dimensions of what is being discussed today. The first is the immediate resolution of the current school year, which naturally concerns us. We know that there have been schools and teachers who have experienced enormous difficulties in providing education services and have often done so in personal sacrifice. Recognizing the dedication of these teachers and directors is not only fair, but necessary. With regard to specific problems, we believe in what has been said by the Ministry of Education and by schools, which have ensured that all payments are being released. And, in the case of the National Conservatory, the authorization to carry out the works. By the way, about the Conservatory, I think it is worth a comment. The opposition always makes this « number», of criticizing the government for « rain and excessive sun », but a serious exercise leads us to see the obvious: about 70 years ago the National Conservatory has not suffered any structural intervention — 70 years are two regimes and many governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u103	The best thing is to fall! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u104	The difference is that at least this government authorized the start of the works, while the former spent « worlds and funds» on requalifying schools and, even if it promised to give priority to the Conservatory, it left it forgotten. It is good to remember the past so that we can be humble in the present. The second dimension, and the most important of what we are discussing today, is to look forward and anticipate the difficulties in preparing the next school year. How can we ensure that these delays do not repeat themselves? How can we ensure that students who opt for these teaching routes are not harmed in their classrooms? How can we ensure that public service contracts with private and cooperative schools are met in good time? in the background, how can we ensure that the appreciation of educational diversity emerges from the role and takes place in an equal treatment for these schools, giving them the conditions of stability and sustainability to teach? This is a direct responsibility of the Government, which now has the opportunity to make a difference between everyone else and, indeed, the diversity we stand for. That is why we believe that the Government should create mechanisms to ensure timely payment of all contracts. And that is precisely why we proposed a draft resolution, which has already been submitted and which is not only being discussed here today because there has been opposition from the Left Block so that it could happen. But we hope that, in the name of coherence, this draft resolution will get the unanimous vote next week. We also note with curiosity the fact that radical left parties are now defending and worrying about the interests of private and cooperative institutions, when they are the first to criticize and oppose when the State makes contracts with these private and cooperative institutions. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u105	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to leave two notes on this matter. Mrs. Maria Ester Vargas of the PSD said that the MEC (Ministry of Education and Science) did some diligence in the shortest time to solve the problem. Mrs. Member, five months is too long. And we all know that there are still schools that do not have the money in order to be able to operate regularly. So normality is not restored. It is not enough for them to say that they regret the inconveniences, that much more is needed than that. It is the dignity of the work of the people, who have dedicated themselves for months and months to life, which is at stake. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u107	Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira from the CDS, we all agree that the centralized model does not serve the interest of the students. But the fact is that this Ministry centralized all the decisions, created the Directorate-General for School Establishments, extinguishing the regional directions, which made these payments in a timely manner, and was unable to respond in time and time. In addition, delays are not just this year, since last year schools have experienced dramatic situations due to the delay of the Ministry of Education and the incompetence of their leaders. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I challenge the PSD and the CDS to vote in favour of the Socialist Party's draft resolution, because this is the way to put back and urge the government to solve the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to say very quickly that the CDS has not yet noticed the difference between the State finance colleges of the GPS group and others that take the money of the public school in business, at least opaque and what are the protocols that the State has with whom it is working every day in public school. Maybe, one day, you want to understand! Or the fact that you don't understand what transparency is really a problem with CDS's genesis! But finally... [[CDS-PP protests.]] We're talking about a problem that affects more than 50,000 students and more than 3000 teachers. We're in February and the problem has been dragging since September. The majority are here and should come and say that this problem is already solved, that the government has solved it, but not! He says that for the week he's going to present an initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u110	For the week? He's already in.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u111	... recommending that the government do what it should have done. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Most protest! The majority protest against the past, the majority protest against the opposition, the majority protest that they have not met the deadlines of the Assembly of the Republic, the majority protest with the Court of Auditors, the majority have no solution! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u112	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not have to wait, we can already vote on the draft resolutions under discussion. They can do so now and pay what they have to do, regulate the debts that your cap has caused and start preparing for the next school year. The solutions are here! Stop protesting, because no one ever thinks you're sorry about your protests. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD members said that the responsibility for delays was school. It wasn't! Delays are the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u116	But who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u117	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you here to defend the early payment? When there are five months' delays, do they come to defend the early payment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u119	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u120	at least, they are required to pay in time and hours. And if the payments had been made in time and hours it meant that before the beginning of the school year, the schools were able to know what they were counting on to ensure the preparation of the school year and the number of classes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you worried? Oh, my God! Of concern and good intentions is hell full! Tomorrow, proposals and solutions will be discussed. The concerns of the CDS do not pay debts to social security, do not pay salaries to teachers, do not pay income from schools. Therefore, the only decent thing they could do was guarantee the immediate payment of all the funds of the POPH, ensure the immediate payment of all the funds of the sponsorship contracts, ensure once and for all the responsibility of the State and end this shame of resorting to the POPH for permanent expenses. Permanent expenditure relates to the State budget, it is the State's responsibility. You are not doing any favor to schools and to the country, it is an obligation! The right to culture is enshrined in the Constitution, it is a conquest of 25 April. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u123	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. About the National Conservatory, it should have been done 70 years ago. He should have had works in PS time — he didn't! I should have had works in the time of the PSD and CDS — not yet, but I should have! PS, PSD and CDS are « same sack flour»!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u126	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u127	We therefore propose that appropriate conditions be guaranteed for the operation of schools. Today, the students sang the Accordai, by Fernando Lopes Graça. The appeal we make is for all those who resist and fight in this country to agree to defeat this government and this policy for a future of progress and social justice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u128	The joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1243 / XII ( 4 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) — Stability and financing of the specialized artistic education network ( BE ), 1259 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of funding to be allocated to specialized artistic educational establishments and the promotion of measures to ensure the compensation of increased charges resulting from the delay in the transfer of funds and to prevent further delays in contracts to be carried out in subsequent school years ( PS ), 1256 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National programme for the enhancement and expansion of the public network of specialized artistic education ( CFP ) and 1268 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regularization of payments to specialized artistic schools ( The Greens) which will be voted on tomorrow during the voting period. Before announcing the next point, I appeal to the Members. Members, in advance, to sign up. The following debate is on petition No 420 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Presented by ATM — Association of Investors and Technical Analysts of the Capital Market, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government, and other public entities with responsibilities on the capital market, which defends the small investors and shareholders of BES and amend Decree-Law No 222/99 of 22 June establishing the Investor Compensation System. Each parliamentary group has three minutes, but so far the Bureau has not seen any demonstration of the will of the parliamentary groups to intervene. [[Pause.]] Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 subscribers of the petition under discussion who ask the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government, and other political entities with responsibilities on the capital market, which defends the small investors and shareholders of BES. We cannot fail to point out that the BES capital increase operation, which took place last May, was authorised by the CMVM ( the Securities Market Commission ), despite having a considerable set of high-risk factors. in the following weeks, successive statements by members of the government, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and even the President of the Republic contributed to cementing, with the small investors and shareholders of BES, the conviction that the accelerated degradation of the Espírito Santo Group would have no significant impact on the Bank. However, the Banco de Portugal and the Government applied a resolution at the beginning of August to BES. They considered the subscribers of the petition that their expectations were, and I quote, « brutally and unexpectedly frustrated », when the same public authorities and the government themselves declared the BES insolvent, with the loss of bank license. The way in this case as well the main affected were unqualified investors and non-institutional investors demonstrate that, even in the context of the securities market, the idea of regulation and supervision is a farce. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The collapse of Banco Espírito Santo requires a deep reflection on the type of financial system that the country needs. Privatisation of the bank has removed the State of economic control, strategic decision and operational direction, which is necessary for an economic and financial policy at the service of national interests. Today, it is evidence that the private banking sector has not served the workers, populations, businesses, the national economy and the country; on the contrary, it has served to increase the profits of the large shareholders and managers, to accumulate even more wealth in a few families, to disrupt State investment and to extract wealth from the productive sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises, to promote tax evasion and money laundering, to legitimately and even illegally favour the businesses of their respective business groups. in recent years there has been a succession of scandals in private banks in Portugal, particularly in BPN, BPP, BCP, Banif, and now also in BES. These situations are inseparable from the processes of reconstitution of the large private economic groups and financing of the economy, the policy of promiscuity and subordination of political power to the economic power, the complicity, the passivity, the impotence of regulators, supervisors and auditors and the political power. The collapse of the economic and financial empire of the Holy Spirit does not represent, therefore, only the ruin of a powerful economic, financial group and the decadence of an oligarch dynasty, it represents, above all, the total discrediting of the capitalist and monopoly recovery policy promoted in recent decades by successive governments on the right. The need to control the banking system and to contain systemic risks to the economy, to ensure effective regulation, supervision and supervision of the bank, to curb financial speculation and to channel savings and financial resources for investment in national production, to defend sovereignty and to boost economic growth now more than ever, requires banks to be placed under public control, as the CFP has been defending. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners representatives of the small investors and shareholders of the Banco Espírito Santo. In fact, the thousands of Portuguese who applied their savings to the one that was presented until a little less a year ago as the most solid Portuguese private bank — in fact, it was the only one, among the large banks, who did not need to resort to the line of recapitalisation of the troika — cannot fail to deserve the respect and understanding of Parliament. The crisis in recent years has caused a wild deregulation of the financial markets that has affected, and unfortunately still affects the stability and credibility of major banks in the United States, such as Lehman Brothers, where it has started — but also the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands and Belgium. In Portugal, it adds to this effect the irrationality of the markets - in fact, so much loved by our right, that it is fundamentalist in defending the freedom of capital and, unfortunately, of austerity for citizens! — the practice of serious mismanagement acts whose financial and criminal responsibility, as we know, is being assessed by a parliamentary commission of inquiry and will necessarily have to be assessed by the courts in good time. Moreover, courts are also responsible to the Portuguese for the time they take and how they apply justice. But there are also those who for what they knew and for what they said are equally responsible for the illusion that was created until the last capital increase of BES, saying that BES was in fact a solid institution and that, if there were problems, it would be in the GES. For this reason the PS will not fail to fulfil the responsibilities of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, who, knowing the serious irregularities in BES since at least September 2013 has allowed the situation to deteriorate until the final collapse in August 2014. We will also continue to fulfil the political responsibilities of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance for the rejection of public recapitalisation by resorting to funds from the troika and the option by the resolution measure, creating the New Bank, 100 % public, held by the Resolution Fund, which is managed by the Government and the Banco de Portugal and where taxpayers have taken a risk of EUR 3900 million. We are supportive of the small investors who made the last capital increase in May/June 2014, motivated by statements of confidence in the BES, either by the President of the Republic or by the Prime Minister, or by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. The small shareholder does not, nor has to, have the same level of information as a qualified shareholder, as is the case with Goldman Sachs, and it is a slightness to put everyone in the same bag, as has already been acknowledged by the President of the CMM. We know that the situation of shareholders, bondholders or business paper holders is not legally the same, does not have the same legal treatment. But the PS, in the Committee of Inquiry and through all means, will do everything in its power to secure accountability and justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u132	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I address a word of respect for the petitioners, more than 4000 who have given us this petition, and for their feelings that many share, regardless of the situation experienced in the BES. Allow me, Mr President, to begin by saying that the situation in BES should not have existed. Everything points to clear signs of illegality, mismanagement, harmful management either in the Bank or in the Espírito Santo Group. Out of respect for the courts and Parliament, which has an ongoing commission of inquiry, we must not advance conclusions. If anyone does, he's despising himself, Mrs. Anne Paula Vitorino, because I don't believe he's trying to clear up the truth, but he already has the truth in his mind and he wants to explain it here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, honourable Member, what we say is very simple: the solution that was proposed is a solution that has avoided BPN errors. We did not opt for nationalization and bring all the damage within the state, to taxpayers, as you did in the case of BPN. We have opted for a solution that makes it the financial system that will have to pay for any losses. On the other hand, they know all shareholders who are not in a worse situation than if we had opted for the Bank's liquidation, as a result of the bank's situation. Finally, let me say the following: we all know that the capital market has risks and it is completely different who buys, for example, commercial role than anyone who enters the stock market because he knows that he has risks. When it has great results, people do not hear complaints because they have great results, but they may also have losses — they are the rules of the game and no one can say they do not know. We therefore look forward to the results of both the judicial system and the Committee of Inquiry to ensure that those responsible for this situation are judged and condemned and that any improvements in both supervision and audit aspects can be put into practice. This is our work: to identify where there have been failures, correct them so that these situations do not happen again in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u134	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS bench, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and thank them for their contribution to the parliamentary debate. I also want to say unequivocally that the concerns they raise are legitimate and we can add them to other concerns that are raised by other interested people who feel hurt by the situation that led to the resolution of Banco Espírito Santo. Mr President, it is clear from the truth that this resolution has been a consequence of facts which we are seeing both in Parliament as mentioned here and in the judicial field, which all point to the fact that they have been extremely regrettable in the Bank and in the Group. Nevertheless, the resolution was, within the circumstances and everything that was undesirable, a solution that defended the public interest and the interest of taxpayers. What the Socialist Party here today is defending, which is a second BPN of much, much higher proportions, would be harmful to those interested in this petition, but also to the Portuguese in general. We cannot fail to regret this constant and constant lack of learning with the mistakes that have been made in the past and the constant defense that they do not repeat in the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u137	We are, within the seriousness that this subject requires us, perfectly convinced of it. It is also said that the parliamentary committee which is currently going on at this very moment when we are talking about it — indeed, it is a committee whose establishment has been unanimously approved and that, if it was not going on, it would probably be Mrs Cecilia Meireles speaking in my turn, but Mrs Meireles is in the Commission to use the word — it also requires us to have some respect. The plenary must respect the work of the Commission and, as long as the Committee of Inquiry operates, no action should be proposed to the Government, under the penalty of the Commission's work, without meaning and cut off from the root what is happening there. It is clear that a world, even history, separates us from what the CFP, for example, said here. The PCP said the banks were privatized and that that was a mistake. Mr. Paulo Sá, the banks were reprivatized because they were nationalized when they were in power governments that did not have democratic legitimacy—it is necessary to remember that—... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u138	...and, whenever we went to vote, governments were elected to defend the private bank. Those parties that defended the nationalised bank and were in the government when there was no democratic legitimacy were never elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u140	Look at the evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u141	Mr. Paulo Sá, the story is a little different from the one he told us here. Mr President, finally, the petitioners—and that is what this debate should address—are also complaining about the regulator's action. Nevertheless, Mr President, the CMVM and the Banco de Portugal enjoy independence that it is desirable for regulators to enjoy exactly to allow their action to be in strict recognition and compliance with the public interest and the law rather than a majority of political circumstantials.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u143	We therefore respect and also expect that, at the end of the Commission's work and the judicial inquiry, we can evaluate the work of the regulator and then perhaps propose amendments. For now, caution advises that the legislator does not recommend any prompt action on this matter to the Government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u144	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I begin by complimenting the petitioners. It is always an act of citizenship to bring this Assembly of the Republic a large set of signatures and they have made us because they wanted a debate to exist, and it is existing. It is true that we also have a committee of inquiry on the same subject and therefore I support the idea that we should wait to draw the conclusions. However, we can now realize that there are strong evidences, as Mr Pacheco said, of either illegality or mismanagement or of harmful management—I believe that there is no doubt about that in this context—the scope of each of these acts is lacking. In all this process—and this is one of the factors of indignation of those who brought this petition to the Assembly of the Republic—there is not so much public intervention, but a public opinion and on this matter must ask for, and are right to ask, responsibilities. After all, when the Government said that everything was right with the Banco Espírito Santo — and we heard several times the government, from the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, assure the country, in this House of the Republic, that they were resting, and that people could participate in the increase in capital because everything was safeguarded – we realize that in fact there was a public intervention by the Government in this matter. When the President of the Republic himself gave his political support to the increase in capital and with this he said to people: « Invest, be at ease», people can now ask with what knowledge, with which guarantees these words were given to the country, with which certainty either the Government or the President of the Republic have turned to people and said: « Invest why BES is finally a solid bank ». This is an important issue. After all, we realize that confidence in the government or the President of the Republic is very important to sell to the financial markets, but in the case of small investors, who seem to have been unprotected throughout this process, there, they already wash their hands like Pilates and say, "Well, this was private management, the government had nothing to do with it." Don't! It was private management that committed these illegalities and on that there is no doubt. But what the government had to do with this is because of the confidence and assurances it has given the country or because the President of the Republic has had to do with this because of the confidence and the guarantees it has given the country there is no doubt. And this is the first of the indignation that is evident in this petition. The Left Block does not hide — on this matter has been coherent — that there are several degrees of responsibility. First of all, the depositors. These must, of course, be safeguarded. Secondly, on the issues relating to the sale of commercial paper, it is public — I believe none of us can deny — that there are people who have consumed « cat per hare », they were told that they had products there without any kind of problem, with all the guarantee and, in practice, they were buying commercial role from a group that was broken. Well, there must be responsibilities about that. We also know that, within the shareholders, there are many people who took the risk and here there is even a liberal precept that says "who walks in the rain wet". It is true that "who is in the rain wet," could have bought a umbrella, but when the meteorologist told them, "Well, it's good time, it doesn't need to carry rainguards, it can go at the will that won't rain", then perhaps the meteorologist should be questioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u146	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u147	And here the one who took on this role was not only the Banco de Portugal, showing once again that these entities that regulate the markets after all have no strong hand anywhere, but it was also the Government and the Presidency of the Republic. On this issue, we cannot discharge these responsibilities here, as I believe, were the interventions of the majority in this context. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u148	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only two words to say, firstly, that the public interventions that took place were after the increase in capital and not prior to the increase in capital, as has been said here. So we're restoring the truth. Secondly, we realize that some parties have already withdrawn the conclusions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u150	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u151	They have already drawn conclusions from what the regulators did or acted as political agents. He asked for some respect for the work of Mr. Members Mariana Mortágua, Miguel Tiago, Pedro Nuno Santos, Cecilia Meireles or Duarte Marques. They're working, respect your colleagues. It's the least we've ever asked of you. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u152	Mr. President ( António Filipe ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Members, let us turn to petition No 423 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by Nuno Miguel Gonçalves Ribeiro and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to annul the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills (PACC), in general with draft law No 788 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and capacity (PACC) ( BE) and with draft resolution No 1275 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the current application and the assumptions of the knowledge and capacity assessment test ( PACC ) ( PS ). To present the draft law of BE, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the petitioners and petitioners of this important initiative demanding the annulment of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences. in this sense, the Left Block presents here a bill to revoke the PACC and at the same time reintegrate all teachers who were harmed by this unfair test, nullifying all procedures that currently hinder their access to competitive procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u155	It's time, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, to correct this unacceptable mistake in which only the Minister for Education and VV. Ex.s still hold on to a proof that doesn't make any sense. They're alone, nothing, no one's on your side. Neither trade unions, nor professional associations, nor even the court and even the Advisory Council of the IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação Educação), see well, managed to perceive the gross error behind this evidence of evaluation of the competences and knowledge of the teachers. It was able to recognize the obvious: that it does not evaluate the most important in teaching activity; that it does not evaluate the didactic and pedagogical competence that is essential to the performance of this profession. in our understanding and in the understanding of all and of all who have been victims of unjust proof, this is an incompetent proof, made by people who can only be or incompetent or ill-intended and who cannot perceive patavina of what is exactly being a teacher. He cannot see that a teacher or a teacher mobilizes knowledge in context for concrete students and students and, in this sense, is a very strong didactic and pedagogical component that is out of this test. They are afraid, suspicious of higher education institutions and initial training, they don't want to touch them, they don't want to take any responsibility in the area; however, they had an answer: cheating teachers and teachers. It's time to fix the mistake! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u156	Mr. President ( António Filipe ). — To present the draft resolution of the PS, Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the petitioners, who once again brought to our concern the subject of proof of assessment of knowledge and skills (PACC) for teachers. Only those who do not want to hear can ignore the echo of the arguments of the petitioners, enlarged by so many and so many other teachers who have expressed repudiation above all because the way this matter has been dealt with by the Ministry, which covers the ears with the convivence of the majority PSD / CDS-PP. Here, in the House of Democracy, the door to discussion of a problem which, in its essential terms and in its perversities, has already been more than identified. in the Provedoria de Justice, he disengages in the evidence. at the Scientific Council of the Institute of Educational Assessment, it is based on the very foundations of the CAPC. in the Administrative Court of Coimbra, it shall be proved. in the Constitutional Court, they will be brought together to examine constitutional biases of the regulations and regulations that support it. Meanwhile, on 5 October, the darkness hides rulers who do not interpret the light of reason. All ignoring, the Government runs forward, publishing, provocatively, a timetable order of the specific component of the evidence. He sent for caution if he did the opposite. As this was not the way of government, the PS Parliamentary Group presents a draft resolution that, in addition to being justified in the foundations and scopes, opens a new opportunity for this parliamentary majority to amend their hand and to leave with some composition of a mess in which they let themselves be involved. This draft resolution has nothing to do with radicals that keep the assumption of accession far away. instead, it is a serious and balanced exercise and a sensible proposal for action. in the state to which the conflictal situation has arrived, the unrest and turbulence it created, it is necessary to have serenity and capacity to restore the rational path, essential to the solution. It is necessary, cautiously, and this is the first recommendation of our project, to suspend the validity of the regulations that this government created, thereby suspending the implementation of the CAPC. Taking advantage of the calm that this precautionary decision will bring, it is necessary to mobilize the people and entities involved and interested in this matter, forming a group, and this is our second recommendation, which promotes a broad, in-depth and unprejudiced debate, which aims to rethink a comprehensive, integrated and strategic project of training, training, qualification, recruitment and evaluation of teachers. We will all win, especially the school, which can be concentrated on the essential: promoting the quality of learning and success. We believe that theimosia and obstinacy have limits and that this majority will want to give a clear signal to the government that the time has come to realize that beyond these limits is only nonsense, confusion and confusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u158	For an intervention, Mrs Maria José Castelo Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to commend the pro-active attitude of the citizens responsible for the petition here under consideration, aiming at the so-called PACC. Numerous international studies attest to the quality of the teaching class as the main and decisive factor in the school success of the students and, this Ministry, in addition to establishing the obligation to carry out exams of Portuguese and Mathematics, in access to the degree in basic education, promote the curriculum strengthening of the initial teacher training, compatibility it with the defined for students, giving continuity to the teacher performance assessment, is implementing the PACC, aiming at the successive increase of the quality of teaching, performing the common component test on 19 December, and the specific component test, between 25 and 27 March, addressed to the 32 recruitment groups, and teachers can perform more than one test, according to their professional abilities. With regard to petition No 423 / XII ( 3. ( a ), it is based on several inaccurate arguments, such as that the « specific component » would have been excluded. And the argument of "exclusive education candidates in public school, when not approved in the CAPC" is also false, as they may re-subsequently present the examination. As regards draft law No 788 / XII ( 4. ( a ), submitted by the Block on the Left, it is based on the same error, claiming the exclusion of the rejected teachers from the examinations to the service in public school, which, as I said, is not true. They also point out that this CAPC « does not evaluate the didactic and pedagogical component», facets which are targeted at the evaluation of teaching performance. in the case of draft resolution No 1275 / XII ( 4. ( a ) presented by the Socialist Party today, vehemently contest the PACC. They say that it is « selective proof based on reducing criteria and preventing access to the profession », that it is « imperative to build a comprehensive and adequate system of training and qualification », which are « concerned about quality public school », speak of « relevance of the teaching class », etc. My lords, the Ministry is fulfilling the creative law of that same PACC! I should like to read: « Strengthening the requirements in access to and in the professional exercise of the teaching function itself, within the framework of a global re-valorization of the profession» ; ; aiming to mark a « selection and recruitment phase carried out by the recruiter concerned » ; addressed « who, being the holder of a professional qualification for teaching and having not entered the teaching career, intends to apply to the exercise of teaching functions in the selection and recruitment contests ; etc. These designs, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Council of 21 January 2008, signed by the then Prime Minister José Socrates. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u160	Also for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the petitioners who sign this petition, who today again bring to this plenary a claim which the CFP considers to be very fair. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This elimination test was created by the PS, supported and implemented by the PSD and the CDS, against the will of teachers, against the recommendations of the Ombudsman, against the public position of the Scientific Council of the Institute of Educational Assessment ( IAVE ). About three weeks ago, during the discussion of the PCP bill that repealed the said test of evaluation, and which was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS, the PSD stated here, unequivocally, that this was a proof of access to the profession, thus confirming what the PCP has been reporting since the creation of this evidence: that it is an instrument to prevent access to the profession, to fire teachers and thus reduce investment in public school. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation and implementation of the CAPC are not disconnected from a more general policy option of dismantling the public school, devaluing the teaching profession and its career, reducing the number of classes to reduce the number of teachers, even creating classes whose number of students greatly hinders the teaching-learning process and prevents individualized follow-up. This evidence is a policy option of permanent illegal recourse to precariousness to provide for the permanent needs of schools, as well as the generalization of professional, family and personal instability in the lives of thousands of families. The imposition of this proof and its application represents a humiliation of the hired teachers — many with tens of years of service — means disrespect for the entire cycle of initial higher education (which includes scientific, technical and pedagogical training), contempt for the professionalization and practical work experience of these teachers in schools, so it is considered irrelevant all their academic and professional course. This evidence also questions the competence of higher education institutions responsible for teaching and scientific evaluation in the initial training of teachers. The PCP reaffirms its total opposition to any evidence of career access. We have presented in this Assembly a set of initiatives to revoke this liquidated evidence, as well as to ensure that no teacher would be prevented from being opposed to the competition for not having carried out the proof, commitment, in fact, taken by the Minister of Education and Science in July 2014, which later categorically denied the practice and reality: the CAPC was simply used as a file for the dismissal of teachers and as a form of retaliation on the hired teachers who did not do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u163	over the years, the PCP has always presented the viable and fair solution for the situation of the hired teachers: opening vacancies through a national list ordered by professional graduation, according to all the needs expressed by schools for full hours that occur for three consecutive years. The CFP will continue to intervene on this matter, rejecting the injustice that this evidence means for teachers and rejecting the dismantling of the public school that this evidence advocates. There is no public school of quality and for all without valued teachers, in appropriate number and with working conditions to ensure compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to begin by greeting the petitioners of petition No 423 / XII ( 3. a ), therefore, by its way, the CAPC returns again to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, when the Ministry continues, insistently and stubbornly, to seek to carry out this absolutely absurd proof. On 29 January the Greens also decided to bring a legislative initiative to the Assembly of the Republic to revoke the CAPC. PSD and CDS voted against, the PS decided to abstain. I mean, with all the frontality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who needed more, Mr Agostinho Santa, from the Socialist Party, to make the action more uniform, here too in the Assembly of the Republic, against this nonsense that the benches of the majority want to continue to promote, which is the realization of the CAPC. That is why we regret this position. On the other hand, I would like to reaffirm the following idea: the main objective of the Ministry of Education, in terms of educational policy, is to eliminate teachers and, for this, created a series of strategies and means, such as mega-groupings, curriculum review, the increase in the number of students per class. The CAPC also fits in this « cake», to achieve that objective. Therefore, we cannot be surprised that this evidence is created and molded, also at the level of its contents and its form, for the purpose of eliminating teachers. And these petitioners add another argument: they tell us that, at content level, it is deeply unfair, because it creates deep inequalities, especially in the common component, since it does not take into account the specific formation of all teachers. And we know the weight of the common component, don't we, Mrs. Maria José Castelo Branco? Oh, my God! We will not be surprised, therefore, that a number of institutions in this country have already expressly stated how negative this evidence is and how it cannot fulfil the objectives that the Ministry says it proposes, and that it is not true, because we have already seen that its objective is that of eliminating teachers. For example, IAVE came to say, in a very clear way, that this evidence does not assess what might be essential, namely the pedagogical and didactic component, but most prefer to continue to ignore. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Minister of Education made a comparison, from our perspective, absurd between the CAPC and a driving examination? Oh, my God! Despite the absurdity, let us take the example of the Minister and tell him that a code examination and a driving examination correspond to the initial training and, therefore, if he wants to compare, then compare these tests with the initial training of teachers. It is that, in this way, the PACC becomes, then, something as sharp as this: let's imagine that a person — making comparison and analogy — performs the code examination and the driving exam, remains...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u166	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u167	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, a person does the code exam, does the driving exam and is empowered to drive. Start driving on the road and become, even, the fruit of experience, an excellent driver. Suddenly, the Ministry decides to give you any proof about anything, the lead person and the Ministry says: « You don't put your wheels on the road no more». And, therefore, Portugal loses a good driver at the level of transport and mobility, we imagine. It's something as crazy as this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The CAPC does not serve for strictly anything but the objective of the Ministry, which is to eliminate teachers! For this, it creates all the nonsense that is necessary for this purpose. It's an absolute shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u168	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, who bring this issue back to the Assembly of the Republic, even though, at the end, I suppose, of the fifth or sixth debate in this Parliament, on this matter do not expect great news from this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u170	You don't expect anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u171	Mr President, I can even recall what I said here a few weeks ago in the last debate we had on this issue, in which I quoted what the CDS said in 2008 and 2009 on this subject. I even — remember — will mention what the PS said at that time about this matter, to conclude that, while the CDS had maintained itself on the same site, defending that the existence of this test would bring benefits to the quality of teaching in Portugal, at that time the PS said the same and now comes to the contrary. I would like to point out, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that the Socialist Party has made a small development, because today it brings a proposal which, despite suspending the current regulation of this proof, comes to say "no, after all what the government should do was to create a working group and promote a broad debate". [[Protests from PS deputy Augustinho Santa.]] I know that the PS today no longer has time to answer, but unfortunately this issue will return to the plenary and then I would like to ask what is the starting point of the Socialist Party in this broad debate. It is to do so, as in 2008 and 2009, i.e. to defend that this evidence exists and is implemented, possibly, instead of exempting those who have more than five years of service or other type, don't I know if more? Or part of this discussion, denying the paternity of this proof, in the decree-law that gives it origin, in the status of the career that gives it origin, and returning back with his word? Mr Agostinho Santa, I believe that could have been said in the debate. As I told you, we keep ourselves in our place and I must also tell you that we remember that the figure of this evidence, as it is implemented, was negotiated with unions. In fact, his figure was changed after an agreement with the National Federation of Education. We recall that this happened two years ago, in December, precisely because the Government felt that this dialogue and debate were worth it. We, as in 2008, as in 2009, as in a few months and as in three weeks ago, remain in our position, so we will not be able to give our vote in favour of the legislative initiatives under discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u173	Mr President, after this debate, we see that the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority remain " proudly alone" in the defense of proof that it is worthless! It would be good if this debate had the seriousness, the foundation and the reflection it deserves. Mrs. Maria José Castelo Branco assumed that the assessment test, the PACC, is a response to the need to recognize and value the quality of the teaching class. Mrs Maria José Castelo Branco is recognised, in particular by the advisory council of such a credible institution as that of the Institute of Educational Assessment, that this evidence does not respond to the evaluation of this quality. If Mrs. Deputy was a teacher or if she knew someone who she was, she would know exactly what is at stake and not make the speech she did. He would know that he has a training, which was the target of numerous evaluations and that the essential of his work is the mobilization of all this knowledge in the context of a classroom; and he knows that the whole pedagogical and didactic component is decisive to recognize the quality of his work. Therefore, you know that the argument you put here is not valid, it does not give credibility to this debate. They are therefore « proudly alone».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u174	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u175	Do you have an argument? Got 'em! It is to exclude teachers — it is an element of discrimination and elimination. If you don't know, I want to remind you that...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u176	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u177	As I said, I would like to remind you that the Ombudsman himself has come to make a decisive warning on the forms of discrimination introduced by this evidence. Could the debate have been serious? It wasn't! Could it have been credible? But it wasn't! But they can still fix this mistake and this gross nonsense of those who don't know what the work of a teacher and a teacher is. They chose not to. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-26.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this debate. I remember that the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. and that there is a thematic debate on forest fires on the agenda and there are regiment votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 31 minutes.]]
