ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u1	Mrs. Members, the Minister for Justice and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, with the congratulations of the Bureau, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 14 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and were accepted by the President, the proposals of lein. 329 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Budget Framework Act, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 330 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of goldsmiths and contrasts, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u3	Even before we start the agenda, I wanted to remind you. Members in Chamber D. Maria is elected by the President of the Economic and Social Council. Let us now begin the first item on today's agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No 318 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, in accordance with Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic the proposal for legislation No 318 / XII, which defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, pursuant to Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy. A clear intention of efficiency and operationality, in order to ensure strict and strict delimitation of the criminal policy guidelines, is attached to this bill. Indeed, it is evidence that, when any definition of priorities is profuse, the immediate consequence of this option is the annihilation of the response capacity of the authorities, which, in practice, makes it impossible to comply with the reported priorities. Therefore, an ambitious but still realistic cast was built and therefore fit for the full realization of the objectives. In this way, terrorism crimes, crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and trafficking in persons have been chosen as a priority, for reasons associated with the seriousness of such crimes, i.e. the devalue of action. Cybercriminality has also been included in the operational selection, since it has seen a substantial increase, noting that it is increasingly common that computer science constitutes a means for the practice of other crimes, including terrorism and crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors. All the crimes which call into question the financial stability of the State and its credibility were likewise included in the list, i.e. corruption and money laundering, in particular, while further emphasising the priority set for asset recovery. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed law presented here reflects a serious commitment to the prevention and investigation of crime which is of greater seriousness, consistent with the line of action of the Government, through all the proposed criminal law and international judicial cooperation in criminal matters that has been approved, as well as through the investment made in the operational means. We are convinced that this is the way: firmly strengthening the legislative and operational means of justice, making it operational and efficient. It is a law that has taken a clear option, not to list it from the crime type but areas and, in some ways, to absorb the contributions which the Attorney-General has made in this regard at the hearings. It seemed to us that it would be a matrix that would correspond exactly to what we wanted and that it would correspond to the deep reservations I myself had faced with the previous criminal policy law, particularly in the indications that it gave the Public Prosecutor in procedural ways to adopt. We are therefore before a law that defends the most vulnerable, on the one hand, and combats the corrosive crimes of republican freedom on the other. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u5	Mr Minister, you have four requests for clarification from the honourable Members. Deputies Cecília Honorio, BE, Jorge Lacão, PS, Antonio Filipe, PCP, and Telmo Correia, CDS-PP. The Bureau has indicated that the Minister will jointly respond to these requests for clarification. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u6	Madam President, Secretary of State, Minister of Justice, which we are now discussing the proposal for law No 318 / XII ( 4 ). a ), which prioritizes crime prevention and investigation for the biennium 2015 - 2017, within the framework of the Criminal Policy Framework Law, Law No 17 / 2006, as well as here well invoked. I would like to propose that we go back a little later in 2005 when this debate on the Framework Law provoked opposition from prosecutors, the division between lawyers and then lawyer Paula Teixeira da Cruz had no doubts. And I quote: "This is a very bad law. This law calls into question the separation of powers. It is a form of political power to take responsibility for the problems of justice', when what was at stake, and I quote it again, was « the training, specialization and strengthening of all operators », and when at the time it also denounced the lack of confidence between government and the same operators. Mr President, the PS has been asking you, insistently, over these four years, where were the priorities. The Minister of Justice did not consider the presentation of these priorities relevant. I ask you, on the one hand, if you have changed your mind over these 10 years, i.e. if you would withdraw everything you said in 2005, in this debate that we have recalled here and, secondly, what you have changed to, four years ago, ignoring the immediate demands of the PS, come now to present this bill with the statement of priorities. What has changed, Minister of Justice? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u7	To make requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u8	Mr President, the Minister of Justice, in line with the question just put by Mrs Cecilia Honorio, is the basic duty of the Government to contribute to the regular functioning of the institutions. An obvious way to contribute to the regular functioning of institutions is to set an example in compliance with legality. Under the law, the Government should have submitted to Parliament a proposal for a directive on criminal policy four years ago. For four years, the Government has been completely oblivious to the fulfilment of its duties before Parliament and to the legal order in force. Mr. Minister, it is your primary responsibility to begin by justifying all of us and the country why, for four years, they refused to comply with the law of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u9	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u10	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs. Members, in fact, the question that is being raised at this beginning of debate has already been raised in a way, but it must be emphasized, because the Minister was very critical, and well, in 2006 at the time of approval in this House of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government of the Socialist Party, of a framework law of criminal policy. And it was very critical for good reasons, and we were, too, considering that this law was not only unnecessary as an inadequate law for our legal order, taking into account the Statute of the Public Prosecutor. Therefore, we always considered that we were before a purpose of governmentalization of criminal policy, which was incorrect. However, at the time the Minister agreed with us on this point and, indeed, it was very powerful, as recently Mrs Cecilia Honorio had the opportunity to quote. But what happens is that now the government comes forward with a proposal, when it should have done so, in accordance with the law, in 2011 for 2013. In 2011-2013 he did not do so either in 2013-2015 and now he has put forward a proposal that, let us say, is a testamentary provision for the coming, because the government did not want to set its priorities but now wants to define the priorities for the government to come. Mrs. Minister will say-CL to me: "Well, I was not in accordance with the law, but the law is the law, lex, sed lex, and I had to comply". But then he didn't. In other words, the Minister did not fulfill it from 2011 to 2013, did not fulfill it from 2013 to 2015 and remembered now that she had to comply with the law. Therefore, the first question is why, why is it that the Government, which had legal responsibility, did not do so, or, then, the Government was in its legitimate right to propose the repeal of the Criminal Investigation Framework Law, saying that it did not agree with it, that it did not want this law and that it proposed its repeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u11	That was the best!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u12	He did not do so and then, by failing to do so, committed the total inconsistency, which was not fulfilled for four years and now says: "Well, we do not do it, but those who will come will have to have no responsibility to do it" and now submit the bill. The question is, why, Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u13	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you a more generic question but I will leave you for a later moment and I will go more directly to this question which has been launched here at this early stage of our work, a little, indeed, with the feeling that criticism would always exist, i.e. if the Minister presents it is because she presents it, if she does not present it is because it is not presented, which, moreover, is a common way to make some opposition. I believe that the issue of priorities is a relevant issue because it is a policy responsibility for this same matter. We cannot have any kind of political accountability if we do not, at the same time, have the instruments of action and political analysis on the same issue, which are completely different plans and which, in my view, do not conflict with the principle of the separation of powers, because one thing is politics — what policy is about policy — and the general lines drawn up, another thing is concrete action, methods of action, research criteria, which obviously fall within the principle of the separation of powers. So, Madam Minister, it seems to me that this confusion must be completely disarmed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u15	On the other hand, the question of the future is a question which, in my view, is also not a question, because if we are talking precisely about an area which must be structural and in which the principle of State continuity must be an absolute principle, i.e. the analysis of crime, the analysis of the fight against crime, the analysis of the priorities of combating crime, these issues obviously do not depend on more or less electoral circumstances. They depend on a systemic, structural vision and the problems we are facing. And the problems we are dealing with are, in fact, those, Mrs Minister. I am not going to list them now, but terrorism, domestic violence, corruption, group violence are the major problems we are facing. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, it seems to me that it is not irrelevant to the change that is made in this proposal now on the table, because we passed a proposal that went to criminal types, based on criminal typology, for a proposal now of a more political, more generic scope, by areas. Furthermore, it seems to me, Madam Minister, but I also leave this question to you, that it is very important that we have here the opinions we have of the Higher Councils, whether the Magistracy, or the Ministry of Public Affairs, which, in this respect, are clearly favourable, stressing the change that has been made as very positive, precisely for now to address these types of areas, and also noting that the method now presented is completely different from the previous method, which, in time, would obviously deserve a different type of criticism. Therefore, I think that this clarification is also a relevant clarification. Mr Minister, the most concrete and worth considering, because this debate is of interest to us, but it is certainly also of interest to many of our fellow citizens, which is the consequence — and this is somehow the question that would leave it — of these priorities. In other words, what is the concrete consequence of electing — obviously as we have done here and with legislation — terrorism as a priority, and priority of combat, or the issue of sexual abuse of minors, one of the crimes that is increasing when general crime is decreasing and on which, moreover, we have taken decisions here and here, and well, we have recently taken decisions and legislative decisions? In short, what is the result of these priorities and how will these priorities take concrete action in the future? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u16	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't changed my mind. Not only did I not change my mind as I strictly maintain, with regard to the law of 2009, what I said. Secondly, the first institution to repudiate this law was this House, which, less than one year after the 2009 Act was approved, made a number of recommendations for its amendment. This criminal policy law has nothing to do with the previous criminal policy law. For one thing, we do not list, or prioritize, a set of crimes, but of phenomena such as, moreover, it is accentuated and praised in all opinions. It is that the crimes are in the Criminal Code and the procedural means in the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the other hand, we do not give directions to the Public Prosecutor's Office on what he should do, which was what the other law did. We do not say that the Public Prosecutor should apply this or that procedural formula. That is why I kept exactly what I said in 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u18	In 2005!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u19	I apologize in 2005. And that's exactly why this law I bring here has a completely different matrix. In fact, you will see that our great concern is clearly prevention. And the prevention of phenomena, not of types of crimes, because these, I insist again, are in the Criminal Code and other criminal legislation avulva. Therefore, it was a law that listed virtually all the types of crime that existed in the Criminal Code, it was a "criminal codigozinho", and then it had a set of indications against the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor. Here, there is no indication given to the Public Prosecutor's Office, saying that he uses this or that type of procedural means—not one, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u20	How about answering a question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u21	In the past, there was, referring to the application of provisional suspension, no provisional suspension... Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about two different things. Why didn't I introduce a law like that? Because I continue to understand that it is a corrupt law, the corrupt lex in the sense of São Thomas de Aquinas. So I haven't changed my mind, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the question put by Mr Telmo Correia, Mr President, all the grounds for the bill explain why we are dealing with these phenomena. Terrorism, for obvious reasons, and the protection of the most vulnerable, for obvious reasons. All we have to do is look at the figures in the RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ), which you are looking at. Members know, in order to verify the exponential growth of these types that come here, except, of course, from terrorism, because terrorism has another basis, which is fully and adequately explained in the annex. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing completely different matrices. This is not a law that violates the status of the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is no indication here to the Public Prosecutor's Office to act in this or that way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u22	Mr. Jorge Lacão is asking for the floor for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u23	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u24	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u25	Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau for a very obvious reason: to ask the President whether, for the sake of progress, she could urge the Minister of Justice to answer the questions that the honourable Members have asked her. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u26	Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u27	Mr, I do not enter the Government's response strategy. The Government is obliged to reply to Parliament in political terms,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... but do not enter into the censorship of the content of Mr. Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u28	That's great! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u29	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u30	Madam President, Minister for Justice, the Minister has not answered...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u31	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u32	... why did you decide, at the end of the legislature, to order the next government. It is that the bill we are discussing today is related to the 2015-2017 Biennial. And let us remember that since the Framework Law on Criminal Policy came into force, only the years 2007 - 2009 and 2009 - 2011 are that they have been given the defining law of priorities, always the work of the PS. It is recognized that there are objective changes here. This is about cutting down criminal phenomena rather than crime types that included everything, as in the previous law, and the risk of being the catalogue of nothing - it is true. This bill also avoids some of the pitfalls of the past, some of which it has already invoked here, but our doubts are the same as the past. We have always objected to various aspects. First of all, as regards the safeguarding of the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor. Secondly, there are many doubts about the bureaucratic dangers of these catalogues, even if this catalogue may be minimalist in relation to the past. And thirdly, on the analysis of criminal phenomena. There, doubts are relevant, when you want to know what analysis has been made to establish these priorities. But it is true that the annex to Article 14. it tests a response and presents the data regarding the most worrying criminal phenomena. One thing is to forget to do: to base the reasons why terrorism is the first priority for prevention and research. Forget this fundamental aspect. So, Mrs. Minister, I want to leave you some doubts. Why is terrorism primarily in the context of prevention and research, in the face of crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, domestic violence, organ and human trafficking, corruption and money laundering? It is true that we welcome these priorities, but we still have one doubt: why is preventing and investigating terrorism more important than preventing and investigating domestic violence than preserving the lives of so many women who have been victims and even murdered? Why is it more important? Then we have other questions. How is it possible to implement this — and I would like to call it "gongórico" — a national video surveillance plan in the light of the conditions of the law itself which the Government created, Law No 9 / 2012? What exactly does this national video surveillance plan mean? What are the reasons for defending local security contracts within the framework of the proximity police (and well) when we have heard Mr. Minister of Internal Administration about criticism and having the greatest reservations about this option for a very short time? It seems very reasonable to us to foresee Article 13. the, on the prevention programs of recurrence of domestic violence and crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination. But, Madam Minister of Justice, we would like to ask: does the Directorate-General for Rehabilitation and Prison Services have the necessary means for what is defined here? This remains a fundamental question for us: the human resources are what are needed to respond to this list of priorities. When do we recognise the lack of justice officers and prosecutors?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u33	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u34	I shall conclude, Madam President. The Minister of Justice is still not responding to the demand to open a competition for at least 100 prosecutors. So, Minister of Justice, the question is this: is there any means? Are the means the right ones? Is trust between operators and government necessary to respond to this bill? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u35	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy reaches us four years late, with total disrespect for what the Criminal Policy Framework Law prescribes, which determines the biannual validity of such legal guidelines, and as is known, the last of them ended its period of application in 2011. It is another serious episode of drift that has represented, in the current legislature, the policy of justice. The current government was committed to implementing a reform of the judicial system until the end of 2012 and it was the fiasco that was witnessed in 2014 with the delays still in force and the improvised in the implementation of a reform designed against the Real Country and implemented on a computer system that collapsed, the CITIUS, for which nothing has been done again, and, essentially, continues not to be done, to guarantee its future reliability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u37	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u38	In the case of criminal policy, late and late, the government agreed. Why would you finally wake up? From the evidence that the most recent and dramatic developments in the terrorist drift have made it necessary to update the integrated response to increased risk and threats, and this fact has not only made it evident as scandalous to the serious inertia in which the government had voluntarily constituted itself in the direction of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u40	But, having been born late, this bill reflects the emergency context in which it was finally formulated. Of course, by failing to meet the requirements of its preparation. It sends the Framework Law that, in time before the adoption of the new law, the Government shall draw up implementation reports, which shall be done within the framework of its functions by the Attorney-General of the Republic, and that both reports shall be submitted to Parliament in due course. You can see why: so that there is time for a weighted assessment of the previous experience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u42	... a critical assessment of the resources mobilized to meet the proposed objectives, correction needs or improvement, however detected of re-establishment of priorities. None of this happened. Therefore, it is good to see that, without objectively presented and discussed analytical instruments, what is now being asked to Parliament is a little more than ritual for a proposal whose guidelines are not presented with adequately demonstrated and discussed sustainability bases. For example: did the definition of priority research crimes, in the face of previous experience, effectively have the judicial treatment required, notably anchored in guidelines and directives in accordance with the law by the judicial institutions and administrations in the area of social inclusion and the prison system? We don't know. And, as we do not know, the options that are now being asked to the Assembly of the Republic have an impressionist nature, without sufficient technical and legal sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u44	The same applies to the list of targeted crime of priority prevention. To justify some strangeness, for example, if, in the face of the crime involved, in the crimes against heritage, theft and theft continue to show greater weight, which justifies their omission in relation to prevention priorities? Because they're a banal thing already? If juvenile delinquency is pointed out in RASI as revealing an exponential rise, how can it be justified that its prevention, particularly in school, does not appear in the prevention chapter? The same is true of the social reintegration effort of young offenders, particularly in the context of the educational protection response. If group and roaming crime, with high technical training and mobility, often cross-border, is pointed out by the police as demanding a key response in the success of the fight against crime, how to explain the silence of the criminal policy guidelines regarding the challenging size of our time? As regards the priorities set for research, it is also worth failing to address crimes involving serious physical integrity or threats and aggravated co-operation in relation to particularly vulnerable or exposed persons, such as young adolescents, the elderly or people with greater exposure and risk, such as teachers, doctors and other health professionals, forum professionals or security forces agents or criminal police agencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u45	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u46	And the same is true of the lack of priority given to the crimes of exposure to abandonment, which are so often linked to crimes of trafficking in human beings. in another plan, no guidance is visible as to the weighting of the legal regime of sentences and their prison compliance, when the calls for review of the prison regime for free days and the semi-tention with increased use of electronic surveillance are known. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u47	The same silence regarding the weighting of the modalities of recourse to the various acceptable forms of criminal proceedings, with the desirable increase of solutions linked to the provisional suspension of the proceedings, criminal mediation, the application of evidentiary measures and for the benefit of the community, and restorative justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u48	The same silence spreads to the disinterest of the proposal by the situation of victims of crimes, the status of which is not a single reference. The same is said of the need to update the special criminal regime for young people between 16 and 21 years of age, in particular in the interface with the application of measures of an educational protection nature. If we attach to such omissions the absence of solutions for evidence of computer response to the registration by the Public Prosecutor of criminal occurrences, according to the appropriate typological table, the absence of reference to the need for better increase — in addition to video surveillance, whose degree of sensitivity and need for weighting in relation to data protection the Government seems to ignore — the appropriate systems of police control, such as that of geo-reference, and under what conditions and, on the other hand, the complete annulment of the function of coordination of preventive missions, within the framework of the integrated internal security system, in which a cloak of silence is made, we have, as a conclusion, a very defective balance sheet of this proposal of law: late, slight, full of omissions in relevant matters, in order to signal a single guiding meaning for investment priorities and modernization to be made in terms of means, equipment and devices to combat crime and in terms of increasing the indispensable work of social resocialization and reintegration of the justice system. What we have before us, yes, is a bill to comply with at the last moment, and largely due to the insistence of the PS, a legal obligation whose deficient contours have the marked destination: more than it is likely necessary to review it at the beginning of the next legislature and in the context of an orientation of institutionally shared and properly documented, sustained and accountable policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u49	The next intervention is the CFP. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice has indeed not explained why it is only now that she is presenting this bill. He just told us that the previous law was bad. It was, yes, sir, but you don't realize why you did not promptly correct this law that you considered bad and only after four years is that you have come forward with a bill for the coming governments! If Mrs.Minister had submitted a proposal for 2011 / 2013, 2013 / 2015 and now presented a proposal for 2015 / 2017 no one would miss out. What's strange is that you haven't presented it in the previous four years and now you've remembered. Mr. Minister, in our view, these laws did not need any, and this is the result of the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which at the outset refers to, and well, that the absence of criminal policy laws over the last four years has not prevented the Public Prosecutor from setting objectives, identifying priorities and developing projects in accordance with them, on the basis of the perception of the evolution of criminal phenomena and the implementation of criminal policy options underlying criminal and criminal procedural legislation. And, Mrs. Minister, that's the way it should be. So these laws did not lack any, like this, from our point of view, nor does they. On this proposal for a law, the basis of the proposal for a law must be annexed, and it is set out. However, if we see carefully what the basis is, it is said, and very well, that the identification of crime prevention and priority research has settled in the analysis of criminal phenomena, from the perspective of their level of incidence, as well as in the view of the importance of the rights offended and the seriousness of the offences committed. He then expressed great concern about crimes against people, which represented 24, 1 % of the crime involved. Therefore, it refers to the abuse of minors, trafficking in persons, sexual abuse of children, adolescents and dependent minors, lenocinium and pornography of minors and domestic violence. Therefore, on the basis, this is the priority of priorities. So let's see the bill. What is the first priority? It's terrorism. In other words, terrorism, which is not even on the ground, is the first priority by decree, Mrs Minister, because there is indeed no criminal incidence to justify it. The Minister may say: 'But you are devaluing the danger of terrorism'. We're not, Minister. We are considering that the basis says very well that what should be the priority in terms of the allocation of resources is what has criminal incidence, it is not what, however dangerous we think it is, and certainly is, does not have a criminal incidence. Moreover, as in the Annual Report on Internal Security, fortunately, there are no terrorist crimes in Portugal. But in that case, we must obviously pay all our attention to this phenomenon. We cannot consider, by decree, the priority of criminal policy when we have very serious criminal phenomena that clearly affect, and with concrete impacts, much of the Portuguese population needs to be protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u52	So here's an inversion of values. It is stated that terrorism must be. Whatever there is, the priority is terrorism, because it has been decreed. Even if there are no terrorist crimes here, it does not hurt; there is no, but there may be! The criterion cannot be this, Madam Minister, although we object nothing to giving priority to crimes against people. I shall finish, because time is running out, saying that we do not understand what the national video surveillance plan is coming and we do not consider it appropriate to place it as a priority of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u53	It's not as a priority!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u54	But if you are not as a priority, there is nothing here, Mrs. Minister, because this is a law on priorities. Then, the problem of violence in sport is indeed a very relevant problem, but, we agree, it is a very relevant problem to require great attention especially when such attention is warranted. When there is a Benfica / Porto, a Port / Benfica, Benfica / Sporting or, go there, a Guimarães / Braga warrants special measures to prevent violence in sport, but consider this a priority of criminal policy, Ms. Minister, for God's sake...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u55	It's not a priority!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u56	We do not think it is appropriate to have this diploma, so much more so that in its reasoning there is no word on the subject and therefore it is fully bound to « hammer», which does not seem to make any sense to us. So let us stress : from our point of view, this law is not needed at all. It should be the Public Ministry, as it has done in the past four years, to define those which must be the properties of criminal policy, according to the incidence of criminal phenomena and the perception of those who effectively have no responsibility to combat crime in fact. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u57	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u58	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the organs of sovereignty and in particular in the Assembly of the Republic, there are no minor issues discussed, but there are issues that, because of their relevance and as a matter of state, require special thought and reflection. The issue that the Government brings to the discussion today is not a minor issue. When criminal policy is at stake, when real threats to the rule of law and the security of people and countries are at stake, our reflection must be redoubled. The purpose of this bill is to comply with the provisions of the Framework Law on Criminal Policy for this biennium. The framework law is not a single way, but it is a complementary and integrated way of implementing the constitutional programme of criminal policy. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion concerns one of the most sensitive and sensitive matters of the rule of law that we are. And to this extent, the Minister of Justice, the PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the Government's bringing this discussion to the Assembly of the Republic. The Government understood, well, to highlight the prevention and investigation of the scourge of terrorism, of crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, domestic violence, trafficking in persons and organs, corruption, money laundering and tax crimes and social security, considering these crimes as one of the most serious threats to the survival of the democratic rule of law. In fact, we realize that the objectives contained in the bill extend from the police proximity by the security forces to the execution of penalties. A criminal policy has as its general objectives the prevention and reduction of crime, the protection of legal property, the protection of victims and the reintegration of agents into society. The identification of these crimes in the proposal presented today by the Government as a priority is another significant step in the implementation of our criminal policy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, so that doubts remain, for the PSD and for the Government any definition of criminal policy must be guided by respect for the rule of autonomy of criminal investigation and the independence of the judiciary of the sovereign bodies. Criminal policy aims to prevent and suppress crime and repair individual and social damage resulting from it, always taking into account the specific needs of defence of legal property. But, Madam Minister, in democracy, there are rare and hardly unanimous themes, and this too is certainly not. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must distinguish the foam from the days, from the mere pre-electional parliament, which we are witnessing today, from the real fundamental reasons and which are linked to the real realization of the rule of law, which should unite all. Mr. Minister, if any marks this diploma has to make choices. To govern and legislate is to make choices and make choices about what is most important, because when everything is priority, nothing is really priority. In fact, this will perhaps be the biggest difference that separates us from the Socialist Party. The diploma identifies particularly strictly the crime of prevention and priority research, and these are mentioned as one of the most serious threats to the rule of law. I shall finish, Madam Minister, as I began by applauding a legislative initiative aimed at adapting the prevention and criminal investigation priorities to criminal phenomena with greater expression and greater social relevance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u59	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u60	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say — as Mr Andreia Neto pointed out very well — that this is something that should be consensual. Let us turn to the opposition's efforts, in particular the major opposition party, to try to explain that this is not the case, which is that, if we look at the debates on the essential issues related to crime every day and look at the parliamentary work on this matter until the day-to-day basis, the choices made are relatively consensual. So it takes some effort to come to say that it is not, and I admire the effort that Mr Jorge Lacão has made to try to prove that there are missing things, that there are things that are not in the bill. But, Mr President, in fact, we either have the essential priorities of combating crime or we have begun to say that this is missing, that is missing, and we are going to the list of the various crimes, we do not know how many crimes and we have always been able to say that there is something missing. But by doing so, we are no longer in the priorities, we are in almost everything. That is, in fact, whether we want the priorities and our greatest concerns or we want an endless crime agenda, which can be interesting, but so we no longer have the priorities. Secondly, in the effort of criticism, I noted as curious and interesting the fact that they have asked why terrorism and why it is first mentioned in the bill, as if there were, in legal terms, a sort of list of more important and less important things. It is clear that combating terrorism is neither more nor less important than domestic violence or crimes against minors or others. However, it makes every sense that it is the first to appear on the list, even for a very simple reason: terrorism is obviously a type of crime that has a dimension that goes far beyond Portuguese reality, which goes far beyond European reality, which has a huge complexity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u61	Trafficking in human beings too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u62	...and that results, like the others. Members recognize when a terrorist attack occurs with the size of what we have seen recently...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u63	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u64	I am talking, for example, about the attacks of Paris, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u65	I thought you were talking about the tire on the bridge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u66	As I was saying, terrorism results in an international debate, which is why, of course, the Portuguese State has to list as a priority, even within the international framework, taking into account our international respectability in this area. Mr President, this seems so obvious to me to say the opposite is to want to find problems. When talking about group crime, it includes, of course, the group crime committed by young people. So when we choose the topic of the areas we did not specify who commits group crime, but there is a highlight and an important approach to this type of crime. Mr. Jorge Lacão asked, well, why the issue of school violence has not been evidenced. Mr President, we fully agree. You know what I'm telling you? Mr Jorge Lacão spoke now and well about school violence, but it is only sad that, when the CDS brought here concrete proposals to combat this kind of violence, a Member accused us of being secure and we do not want to do anything about it. So you've got days! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is the problem, and that is the question. Then they asked why the bill contained video surveillance and violence in sports. Anyway, if they weren't there, they'd have asked why they weren't there. The video surveillance plan is fundamental as an instrument of combat and we have even recorded that the defense of video surveillance has expanded in Portugal. Recently, the Left Block also came to defend her, and it is certain that it is a special video surveillance, because it is inside the teams and it is to watch the police and not the criminals. It's a specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u67	It's to combat abuse of authority!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u68	They want video surveillance to keep an eye on the police, but if they're to watch the criminals and protect the citizens, they're still against it, I think. But they already adopt the concept and, therefore, it is already a positive step.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u69	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u70	I will finish, Madam President. contrary to what Mr.António Filipe said, the issue of sport-related violence does not happen only in major sporting events, quite the contrary. Often, it happens in small sporting events, in amateur events, in events where young people are involved, and these are the most serious cases, because in major events all means are naturally concentrated. Finally, I wanted to say that this should be consensual and is the result of our discussions. So many times we talked about domestic violence, and quite rightly, and so many times we talked about combating corruption, so it should be a consensual matter, which obviously results from RASI itself and should be adopted by everyone from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u71	Mr. Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the new criminal policy matrix has not, in fact, been sufficiently understood. The fact that they have listed a set of crimes does not mean that they are numbered. They are all of priority research, although, objectively, terrorism, as we know, often involves rape, death, etc. So even if the understanding was that, I think it would be fully justified, because it absorbs a set of crimes. But this is not crime 1, crime 2, crime 3. The crimes listed are the priority and are not in order, because they are not numbered. This first explanation was addressed to Mrs Cecilia Honorio, who raised the issue, and to Mr António Filipe. As far as this is concerned, we are clarified. This law has an article on research priorities, all others are on prevention. When you talk about sports, proximity police, etc. , we speak in prevention, we do not speak in research priority. Mr. Jorge Lacão once again confirmed that the Socialist Party is not doing well with the judicial system, nor with its autonomy, nor with its independence. Again, he wanted a criminal code and once again he said that he should indicate the forms of process that the Public Prosecutor should use. We refuse to do this, it is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office! Even with regard to the priorities listed herein, if you notice in the opinion of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, you will find that what we have done has been welcomed by the Attorney-General's Office itself. In addition, he was unable to avoid, in a law that must be turned to the defense of the most defenseless, the most vulnerable and the crimes that corrode the democratic rule of law, his criminal code. He spoke again in I don't know how many kinds of crimes, he wanted to functionalize the PS and the Public Prosecutor's Office again. Mr Deputies, I hope that your bench will not be functionalized, taking into account the functionalization that you want to impose on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as its speech. We shall be very clear, Mr President: we are not going through your criminal policy laws. What we have is an article on priorities and the rest is prevention, because the rest is the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the independence of the judges. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u73	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u74	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Socialist Party has come to this debate, which is somewhat offensive, to make three fundamental criticisms. The first criticism was that the government did not comply with legality. The first question to be asked, given this equation, is this: what were the consequences of this fact for the country? Mr. Jorge Lacão, the answer is only one: chance of the Távoras for the Socialist Party. Has the country seen its internal security diminished? Has the country been in danger? Have crime rates increased? I want to say no. With the laws of the Socialist Party for the biennium 2007 to 2009 and 2009 to 2011, crime rates have always increased. Without these laws, crime rates have always declined.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u75	It's raining!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u76	The numbers are as follows: between 2007 and 2009 serious and violent crimes rose from 21,947 to 24,163 and in 2010 rose to 24,456. In 2012, 6, 7 % decreased and 9, 5 % decreased in 2013. Therefore, Mr President, this criticism has no consequence or effect at all. Then there comes the Socialist Party, in the good way of the past, saying that this law is insufficient because it does not mention many crimes and the areas of crime that are covered do not arrive. Mr President, putting everything as a priority is putting nothing as a priority — that is the most obvious thing there is! There are criteria for need and opportunity that need to be met. If it is not, as indeed, not in the past, in the time of the two previous laws of the Socialist Party, which then list priority crimes, more priority crimes and immensely priority crimes, what will happen, it is obvious that everything becomes secondary and huge inefficiencies. The Minister recalled, and well, that the laws of the Socialist Party were so imperfect and deficient that it was the Socialist Party itself in this House which adopted a resolution to recommend to its own Government on 10 December 2009 that it should reconsider, with a view to its reduction, the catalogue of crimes of prevention and priority research. As you see, Mr President, it was the Socialist Party itself that admitted, accepted and confessed that what you did before was not well done. So I should assume here that the new strategy of this government is the right strategy. The third criticism the Socialist Party made was the lack of predictive measures to combat crime. Once again, the PS is equal to itself: more means, more resources, more money. Attention that the current government, in this law, also wants to adopt policies of proximity that combat crime. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u77	But before hiring cops—as you did, you already launched this contest—you had to do something else, you had to make money, which you spent, until you put gas on the police and GNR cars. That is what the current government had to do to then meet the great needs of recruiting people and what you once and for all want. I believe that the conclusion that has been withdrawn from this debate, Madam President, Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all work towards convergence. The Government is, as it has always been open to contributions and some other improvement and the opposition to accept that the goal of all is to fight for the reduction of crime rates so that Portugal continues to be a safe and recommended country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u78	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate on the proposal for a law No 318 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and once again, I congratulate the members of the Government who participated in this debate. I remember the ladies. Members of the Chamber D. Maria shall elect the President of the Economic and Social Council. We moved on to the general debate of Bill No 322 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August 2007 is made by transposing Directive 2014 / 40 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001 / 37 / EC and Directive 2014 / 109 / EU, of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014 / 40 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council, establishing the library of warnings to be used in tobacco products. To present the bill, I have the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, to whom I submit my compliments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u79	Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, the problem of smoking is of the greatest importance in public health. Tobacco is associated with a significant decrease in the survival of smokers, active and passive, determines the occurrence of several diseases that do not bind to the respiratory system, is the most well-identified causal factor of cancers, not only that of the lung, and is the most important cause of disease and death in today's society. The Portuguese State has sought to develop measures to combat and prevent smoking for many years. We are members of the Framework Convention for the Prevention of Tobacco from the World Health Organization and have produced national anti-smoking legislation, following the guidelines and recommendations of the best international experts. Now the time has come for us to improve the mechanisms we use in health protection. The Act that has been in force since 2007 needs to be amended. On the one hand, we must transpose the latest European directives on the prevention of the risks of tobacco, but on the other hand we must align our legislation with best practices regarding the protection and deterrence of smokers and protect workers exposed to passive smoking and minors. We must begin to follow what is done in countries with more effective public health protection legislation and with a greater propensity for social protection. This is a subject of the Republic and it is Parliament who, in the first instance, must interpret and decide according to the will of the people. in this sense, the Government has now presented a bill that, in addition to transposing the existing directives, introduces measures for the progressive elimination of common spaces for smokers and non-smokers and regulates more comprehensively where the sale of tobacco will continue to be possible. All these measures are reasonable, respect individual freedom of choice, remove minors from smoking areas in closed places of public use and ensure the quality of air inhaled by workers. In addition, as the directives impose, there are new rules for packaging tobacco products now with pictorial warnings determined by the European Union, and the elimination of flavoured additives will occur and a specific regulation on electronic cigarettes is presented. This law that we have now submitted to your consideration is an instrument of fundamental importance for the construction of a more equal and healthier society. It is the most disadvantaged who suffer most from the effects of tobacco. We must inform those who choose, but we must also protect those who smoke without having the opportunity to refuse to inhale the smoke of others. The Government is grateful for the improvements this House wants to make in the legislative proposal, but alerts the honourable Members. Members for the fact that the text is balanced and already safeguard all issues, even those which, apparently relevant, may still be presented by groups or persons with an antagonistic interest in tobacco protection. Probably with more effective legislation at the end of the day they could have died less Portuguese because of tobacco. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also in your hand to help put an end to this scourge that haunts us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u80	Mr José Junqueiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The proposal we are discussing today aims to introduce a set of amendments to the law in force and comes from the transposition, as has been said, of a directive of Parliament and of the Council in order to bring the Member States closer to the same pattern of manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. The existing law is balanced, moderate, capable of being met and protects non-smokers without ostracizing those who make use of tobacco by habit or dependence. The proposed amendments are in the same direction, to achieve a triple objective: to discourage the start of tobacco use, to prevent its consumption from harming third parties, to stimulate and help to get out of a dependency situation all those who are sensitive and wish to do so. Thus, there are a set of general warnings and information messages that intensify existing ones, such as: « Smoking kills, leaves now », or « Tobacco smoke contains more than 70 substances that cause cancer ». And it is true, in such a way that it is scientifically proven and statistically demonstrated, that smoking is the cause of a high mortality rate. The prohibition of smoking extends to all closed public spaces, as well as to the use of expressions that diminish and dilute the actual harmful effects existing, namely: « low tar content », « light », « ultralight », « soft », « natural», « biological», « without additives », in a kind of « may continue to smoke that this is not so serious ». The problem is that it's really very serious. This is the only way to protect the health of everyone in general and, in particular, of children and young people, even in view of the fact that up to 18 years of age 80% of people gain the habit and dependence on tobacco. Therefore, the proposed law obliges the areas for smokers to be created in the future to be separated, compartmentalized and without services, so as not to subject the workers of establishments to passive smoke. And those that already exist, not in accordance with the requirements of the law, will enjoy a moratorium by 2020 so that there can be a return on the investment made. There are, however, some strategies that the new law requires that they do not deserve our agreement, others that need evaluation and finally gaps that we wish to see filled out with proposals that we will present in the specialty and some of which we set out here, for example. Our agreement does not deserve the use of images of disproportionate psychological violence, not only because opting for horror can constitute, as in the images already disclosed in the media, a perverse social bullying, such as the trivialization of it could mean devaluement and the envelopes of dissimulation of packaging stimulate the escape to the visualization and the objective of the law. A technical question concerning the date of 20 May 2017 as a limit for the entry into force of the new packages. It is not necessary to create a new date, it is sufficient to consider the January tax stamp and the three months resulting from the law for the consumption of existing stocks and withdrawal from the surplus market, which may still exist on that date. It deserves analysis and reflection if the total equivalence, as reflected in the proposed law, of electronic cigarettes to the so-called normal tobacco comes from some scientific evidence demonstrated or if it was only considered as being a deterrent strategy, which, in our view, may not take into account those who found in this medium an instrument to reduce or abandon tobacco dependence. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u82	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u83	Finally, in our view, it is important to consider, on the part of the Government, the availability, as we propose, of extending the services of consultation for tabular defiance, facilitating access and exempting it from moderate rates. On the other hand, we would well see the creation of a program itself, which involves the participation of the State in drugs that promote or facilitate disappointment. Your payment, as is done today for hepatitis C, would depend on the results, taking place only in cases of success. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore reserves the right to present these proposals, in a special way, which aim to make this law more fair, more appropriate and balanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government assumes that the assumptions underlying this bill continue to be public health-care and to discourage tobacco consumption and the PSD Parliamentary Group is following it in this direction. I quote Dr. Nuno Miranda, in charge of the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) by the National Plan for the Prevention of Oncological Diseases: « After we have abolished the death penalty, smoking is the deliberate path to the death penalty for each smoker». They seem excessive, or perhaps not, in the face of the consequences, but above all for those who know what the difficulties are in quitting smoking, and we must be able to find reasons to prevent those who never smoked from starting to smoke. The Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ), in its report, concluded that the law in force had good acceptance, was understood as a health protection measure and with a positive impact on the reduction of consumption. However, less protection situations have also been detected for workers, even customers and children and young people, in some of their establishments, as well as difficulties in monitoring ventilation requirements. Now, the only way to protect would be to ban the act of smoking. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. However, the government was sensitive to the size of the investments made to provide room for smokers and therefore introduced the deadline of 31 December 2020 for the total ban on smoking in those areas. However, there are situations in which, despite the prohibitions provided for in the law, it is possible to smoke outdoors in the surrounding areas, and in spaces that are simultaneously places of work and residence or long-term housing, such as prisons, hospitals, mental health institutions and now, also, third-aged homes and assisted residences, it is possible to maintain and create spaces with absolutely determined rules, but still in a situation of condescendence, with different levels of frailty of the human person. The aim, however, is to create conditions so that all those who smoke can truly have the opportunity to quit smoking and, for this purpose, have been created by this diploma, intensive support consultations to stop smoking. As regards electronic cigarettes with nicotine and its recharges, they accompany the same prohibitions on tobacco use, including places of prohibition and consent, direct or indirect advertising aimed at their promotion and sponsorship and additives. However, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, only the individual overcoming, based on the strength to win, will be the path that must be made, without tobacco, in favour of the quality of life that we all want. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is worth the goal of tobacco reduction in Portugal and with the Portuguese. The ill effects of tobacco — its consumption and exposure to smoking — are also well known in health. Therefore, try to find solutions to reduce exposure to tobacco smoke and to tobacco consumption itself, trying to raise the awareness of smokers so that they stop smoking, we deserve our support. Exposure to tobacco smoke and its consumption are a public health problem in which it is urgent to intervene. However, it is important to analyse the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures proposed by the Government and which today are brought to discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, proposals, which are proposed to achieve these same objectives. We want to express some of our doubts. We have doubts that measures of a prohibitionist nature alone, as we are proposing today, are effective. We do not doubt their kindness, but if they are not accompanied by a strong prevention policy, the proposed objectives will hardly be achieved and more easily we will find ways to circumvent the law. It's the risk. The truth is that in Portugal there is no effective and regular health prevention and promotion policy, not due to lack of guidance, but due to lack of human, technical, material and financial resources for its realization. We can refer to the almost absence of resources allocated to the National Programme for the Prevention and Control of Tobacco, in particular with regard to human resources and funding through the State budget, which is virtually non-existent. We can also mention an essential aspect and one of the objectives that is also envisaged in this National Programme, which is the intervention with the younger ones, to avoid effectively smoking, as mentioned here by Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão. But we ask: where is education for health? Where are the means, in primary health care, for an intervention, with the users, effective, regular and actually going in order to achieve these objectives? Oh, my God! In the debate today, the government has expressed concern about the ill effects of tobacco, but this is not consistent with reality, i.e., it expresses concern, but it does not continue to invest properly in health promotion. The proposal that brings to the discussion today also outlines as orientation the existence of consultations of smoking cessation, but the reality we know is that between 2009 and 2013 the number of sites with consultations of smoking cessation decreased almost to half, from 223 to 116. Obviously, the reduction in the number of sites with such consultations makes it difficult to access those who want to quit smoking. It is essential to ensure the accessibility of users to these consultations, through a network of proximity, that ensures the consultation of smoking cessation in all health centres and hospitals. We also have many doubts about the effectiveness of the adoption of shock and terror measures, such as the obligation to place shocking images in tobacco packaging. Quickly, it will also be a circumvented measure with, for example, the purchase of bags and containers for the placing of tobacco. If we do not want to put the economic issue above the health issue, we must not fail to consider the economic impacts so that the law can be effectively applied if the proposed objectives are not achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u88	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u89	I shall conclude by saying that we sincerely hope that the final outcome of this legislative process will result in a balanced, efficient and effective law that meets both the objectives of reducing exposure to tobacco smoke and reducing tobacco consumption. on our part, we will also contribute, in the field of expertise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u91	... to achieve the objectives proposed by this law and we are fully available to strengthen effective means, particularly with regard to prevention and health promotion. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u92	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this proposal for a law which we are discussing today corresponds to the transposition of a European directive and sets out rules for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke, as well as measures to reduce demand, related to the dependence and cessation of tobacco consumption. What is intended is, essentially, to act at the prevention level, deterring the beginnings of consumption, and also to contribute to reducing the incalculable damage, suffering and loss of quality of life, the years of lost life associated with tobacco consumption. It has already been said, but it is not too much to remember, that tobacco consumption is the main preventable cause of disease and death and has associated high social, economic and health costs. This is, therefore, an opportunity to move on to practice something that is both spoken today and, therefore, to move from words to acts, to increase prevention and contribute to reducing the burden of disease. We even have to take action and this is an opportunity not to waste. In view of the 2007 law, the ban on smoking is extended to almost all closed public places, reducing the exceptions currently in force, and also associating themselves with the warnings and warnings in text, which already include tobacco packaging, images of real situations related to their consumption. In addition, it is also intended to regulate the use of electronic cigarettes, on which so far there is a legislative vacuum. Having said this, I would like to highlight here some particular aspects that seem of greater relevance to us. I would like to remind you that the figures that will appear in tobacco packaging are just, I repeat, just a pale picture of reality. And if some of the images can shock us, and we understand that yes, it can not shock us less reality, just because we don't see it, we don't want to see it or we don't know it. The type of information and warnings we are discussing today does not intend to limit a free choice, but rather harmonise the use of harmful habits, both for society itself and for the preservation of the common good. in this bench, we value individuality, but we never lose sight of the common good. in this proposal there is no ban on smoking in outdoor spaces. The extension of the smoking ban in public places offers a transitional period until 31 December 2020 so that establishments operating under the current law can adapt. And, as has already been said, there are still exceptions to this enlargement, with the possibility of smoking in certain places already referred to here. We would also like to point out, if allowed, that this proposal also includes the creation and strengthening of consultations to support smoking cessation in all groups of health centres and hospitals of the SNS (National Health Service. Having said that, and in conclusion, what we want to say, Mr President, is that when discussing these measures, we are aware that they will not solve all the problems arising from tobacco consumption, but we cannot, in any way, spread their relevance. Prevention does not run out of law, but we understand that prevention must strengthen it. These measures add and reinforce what we already have in the National Programme for Tobacco Prevention and Control, which has clear objectives until 2016. It will never be too much to remember that there is a long way to go about reducing smoking. What we are talking about today, here, is of increased suffering for ourselves and for society in general, and that requires everyone's commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u94	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u95	I will finish, Mr. President. For us, the delays and boredoms in this matter will correspond to more losses and deaths, the more pain and the higher damage to society as a whole. That is why this law, today and here, is called for. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group begins this debate with the reaffirmation of its position. The purpose of the law is to protect non-smokers and promote the unrestrainedness of those who smoke, in addition to, of course, preventing new smokers. The protection of non-smokers cannot be done at the expense of discrimination and segregation of smokers — we say so in 2007 and repeat it now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u99	We have to have a balanced law before these two factors. We accept prohibitionist measures aimed at ensuring the protection of the rights of non-smokers, but there is a need for balance in the face of the conflict that exists and which, I think, does not deny. As for the introduction of images into tobacco sticks, we question the intended effect: deter smokers? We doubt that the use of shocking images does not have the opposite effect. The images are intended exclusively for smokers. Is this shocking radicalism discouraging? Oh, my God! We have to question ourselves, and we have to go through this very well. from our point of view and from the outset, we believe that we do not and question the pedagogical effectiveness of the introduction of images into tobacco sticks. We are now focusing on the legal aspect of the dissuasive measures of tobacco consumption. Why the amendment to Article 21. o Law No 37 / 2007? The establishment of consultations on smoking cessation was provided for in the Act for all public health centres and hospitals and is now replaced by the creation in all health centres groups. It was good that the Secretary of State, who still has time, would answer this question: why this retreat, on such an important issue? in a 2012 survey, three quarters of the reported smokers replied that they would like to quit smoking if they could easily do so. There are no facilities to quit smoking, we all know that, but there may be medical help to quit smoking. For this reason, Mr Secretary of State, the reduction in the number of consultations is not understood, the reduction in the places where the consultations take place is not understood, we are down from 223 in 2009 to 116 in 2013. Mr. Secretary of State, it is the report of the Directorate-General for Health that shows the backs in the availability of means that lead smokers to quit smoking, as well as a very significant reduction in the number of users treated. If the aim is to reduce tobacco consumption, it is urgent to change this situation, as are urgent new measures, such as participation in medicines to stop smoking. We have a law since 2007...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u100	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we have a law since 2007 and what are the concrete results? How much do we reduce the number of smokers? In 5 %, the studies say, Mr. Secretary of State. It's too short! Prohibitionism does not work alone. If there are no measures that go beyond prohibiting, measures of prevention and serious deterrence, we will not get there. by the way, there is still a great way to go in this area, and the government has some responsibilities that should be answered in this debate today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u102	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the House for its appreciation and its interest in tobacco control policies. In particular, I am grateful for the fact that everyone has been shown to be available to make improvements to the law. However, I cannot fail to mention four aspects which are fundamental. First of all, I would like to point out that the images, which have been considered disproportionately violent, are the result of the directive itself. And if they shock you, though they're shocking, because reality is really that. It's very shocking! With regard to the question of Tabagic Disformation Consultations, if it is true that the total number of consultations has decreased, it is no less true that the number of consultations produced in these consultations has increased from 2009 to 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u104	That has to be explained well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u105	Also for clarification by the honourable Members. Members, I should like to say that there is a report and a recommendation, a decision made in Moscow in October 2014 within the framework of the tobacco convention, whose consultation is consulted by the honourable Members. Members will be able to do so if they understand. We are also grateful for the recommendations regarding the exemptions from moderate rates, in connection with the consultations on tabulation, and I am also grateful for the comments made on the participation of medicines to support those who want to stop smoking, on which I myself, in October this year, made a recommendation, in line with what you have done, in order to study the mechanism of sharing, depending on the result, which seems very relevant to us. I conclude by saying that I can no longer agree that prohibitionist measures alone are not sufficient in any way. And that is why I also ask you, as a whole, that when you examine this law, please make changes that do not decharacterize it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u106	The third point of our agenda is thus concluded, so we move on to the fourth point, which consists in the general debate of Bill No 320 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the availability and use of electronic public procurement platforms provided for in the Public Contracts Code and transposes Article 29. Directive 2014 / 23 / EU, Article 22. the and Annex IV to Directive 2014 / 24 / EU and Article 40. the and Annex V to Directive 2014 / 25 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014. To submit the bill, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The electronic public contract in Portugal has been recognised as a success case at national level either within the European Union or by the European Commission itself. However, these more than five years of the validity of the public electronic contract in Portugal allow us to detect some limitations in the system that needs to be completed. in this context, it would highlight the absence to date of a licensing, monitoring and monitoring regime of such public contracting platforms to operate in Portugal to monitor and ensure compliance with the law. in this sense, the Government submits to Parliament this bill which aims to create the new legal regime for electronic platforms, which will also include the general principles and rules, the requirements and conditions to which platforms must comply, as well as the obligations and conditions of interoperability between themselves. This scheme is requested not only by market participants but also by contracting entities and suppliers of the State. Furthermore, mention that the licensing, monitoring and monitoring regime for electronic platforms is also necessary because we are before a service of relevant public interest, which is provided by private companies. the State is therefore responsible to ensure that this service is provided by appropriate companies with technical and financial capacity necessary for this purpose. But it is also necessary for such platforms, in addition to ensuring secure transactions from the information point of view, in accordance with the Public Contracts Code, to act clearly and in good competition, as regards the prices of this market and its services provided. This bill also introduces a relevant novelty in relation to the current regime: interoperability between platforms, thus allowing each economic operator to choose an electronic platform that aims to use for participation and public procurement procedures, rather than the current model which obliges companies to register and use all existing platforms. This system is based on interoperability, according to rules which will be defined by portaria, which is at the final stage of preparation. The proposal for a law is still advantageous for economic operators as they have been the main harmed by the absence of real regulation of this market, to be developed by the IMPIC regulator ( Institute for Public Markets, Real Estate and Construction, IP ). The diploma shall lay down, in an exhaustive manner, basic services which shall be made available, free of charge, by electronic platforms. With a clear distinction between basic services and advanced services, economic operators are assured of the services that are free of charge, those that will have to pay, with obvious benefits for the economy. The improvement of the electronic public procurement system allows Portugal to continue to be seen as an example for the adoption and implementation of the electronic public procurement by the other Member States of the European Union. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u108	To request clarification, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u109	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, there is one, and only one, question which we would like to formulate and which is, in fact, relevant to our sense of vote. The Government has not submitted the evaluation studies to the Assembly of what worked well and what worked less well in the implementation of the current legal framework. It was important he did. But above all, there is a question for which we need an answer, which is the following: what, or what, is the impact of this new framework on competition and the possibility of genesis, perhaps involuntary, of any almost monopolistic or monopoly situation? The competition authority has not been heard, we believe that it must be so before the legislative process is over. But this has to have a frontal answer, and that also depends on our vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u110	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u111	Mr President, Mr. José Magalhães, we have been careful to verify the financial impact for service providers, in particular those who provide electronic contracts. And the basic principle is that the impact is neutral or positive, since, although the services are extended free of charge so that we can have more entities accessing this transparent form, we also extend the market. And what may perhaps become a reduction in economic return, since the services are extended free of charge, is compensated by a greater number of entities that will use this service. that the analysis, which will also be referred to Parliament, points out that there is no economic damage. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u112	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the subject under discussion, I must say that the exercise of any function in public administration must ensure that financial efficiency is achieved before, during and after the completion of a public contract. Public procurement, as a design for the development and efficiency of resources, should also include a strong dimension of transparency. In recent years, a number of rules have been developed that have allowed greater respect for public money. Efficiency also has other benefits, applied alongside bureaucracy. We recognize that much has been achieved at this level, since we have been able to take advantage of the new information technologies. With the dynamics created, we allow companies to become more competitive, by participating in more public competitions and also in a more transparent way. But, and after some time, the time has come for us to look eclectically at the results achieved. It is that if, on the one hand, we win a number of barriers, on the other hand, we also expose ourselves to a new world, information networks. Portugal, although a pioneer in the public procurement method, now has two challenges: on the one hand, that of electronic security and, on the other hand, that of the business competition of all those involved in the construction of platforms and data storage. That is why we are taking a step forward today in harmonizing our right with European rules. This step will allow for a better response to the new challenges. Among other things, these changes will allow platforms used by contracting entities to be subject to a set of rules. Legal news establishes who licenses the platforms, monitors them, monitors them, and finally controls them. Only in this way will we be able to ensure that competition safety designs are compatible. But any diploma of this kind must ensure that the rules are respected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u114	That is why the Government, in this proposal, gives shape to a counter-ordinary regime, which ultimately leads to the possibility of the immediate cancellation of licences. Still, there are matters for which we must be careful and whose negative consequences must be reduced to the maximum. As we know, at the level of case-law, there is still no consensus on which the size and effects of qualified digital signatures — something which, in our view, should not compromise, either positively or negatively, other required signatures. Another subject to be examined, in the specialty, is the signature of the compacted files, which, with this diploma, still lacks legal densification. We recall that this is sometimes a matter that leads to the exclusion of applications. Finally, referring to the need for a strong scrutiny of the suitability of companies entering this market and also of a warning left by the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ). in this alert we note the need to notify the National Data Protection Commission in a series of operations relating to personal data.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u115	Not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u116	In addition to some details, the CDS is sure that, with diplomas such as what is now being discussed, greater competitiveness will be achieved in companies, greater transparency and efficiency at the level of public management. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u117	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Having as a case study, an international best practice and a source of inspiration for the European Union, electronic public procurement in Portugal has allowed contracting entities significant savings estimated at more than EUR 200 million during the period between its implementation in October 2009 and the end of 2013, i.e. about 20 % of the total public purchases in that same period. The extremely positive balance which, I believe, we all make these more than five years in force, however, does not allow us to say that everything goes well, that everything is fine in the realm of electronic public procurement in Portugal. In fact, there are deficiencies that need to be corrected and shortcomings that need to be addressed — shortcomings and shortcomings that have been, indeed, and of course, pointed out by market agents themselves, but also by public contracting entities and suppliers of the State. This legislative initiative, which we are discussing today in plenary, is therefore assumed as a response to all these demands, criticisms, repairs or complaints that have been made over these five years in force. And many changes have been made in the regulation of this sector of activity, whose discussion time in plenary naturally does not allow for its full identification. on this occasion, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let me point out only one of these amendments because of its significance to the Portuguese economy. I am referring, in particular, to the possibility of suppliers being able to choose an electronic platform through which they can respond to all, I repeat, all the procedures under way, regardless of the electronic platforms contracted by the different contracting entities, i.e. where the same procedure has been created. I believe, and we can say, that we are facing a gigantic advance. And why? Because, by reducing, because they are indeed inevitably reducing the costs that the suppliers were, I repeat, obliged to bear, from our point of view, will result in a double effect, from the outset, the increase in the frequency that the Secretary of State has already had the opportunity to mention here. Why? Because it increases the likelihood of competing a greater number of service providers and goods suppliers. On the other hand, it also increases the possibility of better proposals from the point of view of the contracting authority, i.e. lower-value proposals. And in this circumstances, with this amendment, naturally, economic agents, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, win the state, with the savings it can achieve, and naturally win all Portuguese. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there may always be room for improvement...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u119	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. I said, there may always be room for improvement, but it is our conviction that this bill will positively dictate the future of the market and will also allow the continuation of the success it brings to this day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u122	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: Of course, it is good that there are efficient and transparent public procurement mechanisms — the state is winning with that, we are all winning with that — and that it is possible to be done through electronic platforms that brings more efficiency and adds transparency to this process. The first question we have to ask is: if it is such an important mechanism, if it is a mechanism that interferes both with the functioning of the State and with so much money, why is there not a public electronic platform that can provide such services? This is a basic issue, it is a fundamental issue. Why does the State have to stay in the hands of privates to provide a service? Why does it pay for a service that could be provided by you, creating these capabilities? The second question was raised by the Association for Electronic Public Contracts ( ACPE ) itself, which has already been addressed by Mr José Magalhães, and therefore I want to put it to Mr Secretary of State. There are currently seven platforms providing this public procurement service. What these companies say is that, by creating more mechanisms and more restrictions on access — contrary to what the Secretary of State has said and so I ask once again — problems may arise to competition between these companies, leaving only a few with conditions to operate on the market. I shall now refer to the issue that everyone is talking about — as a matter, not as a statement. The largest company operating in the market is Vortal, which belongs to Espírito Santo Tech Ventures, which currently belongs to the New Bank. So, yes, there is a fear and there is, yes, a rumor, an idea, a complaint that these changes could come to give the monopoly to this company, because this electronic platform belongs to the New Bank. It seems important to me, since this question is put and everyone talks about it and knows it, that it is clarified by the Secretary of State. It was very important that there should be an opinion of the Competition Authority, because this would also bring some tranquillity to this debate. Finally, there is another issue in this bill that concerns the fact that payments are no longer distributed between contracting entities and suppliers, as has been the case so far, only from the contracting entities. Does this mean that it can be more expensive for the authorities, more expensive for the central state? This may be a wrong reading, but once again I would like the Secretary of State to clarify this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u123	Mr Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs. Members: First of all, these questions have not yet been answered — I have put them and they have just been repeated, and they are essential — and we cannot leave the debate for the global final vote at that time without the terms fully clarified. Secondly, time is important. Mr. Secretary of State reminds me a bit of that character of the known film Quentin Tarantino, Pulp Fiction, if I remember, that was that boy who was solving the problems. The problems were created by colleagues who, in fact, were gangsters. But Mr. Secretary of State solves problems with the haste of the TAP, now hurry this diploma... hurry, hurry, but hurry late, because he had almost four years for this issue to be equationd.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u125	The problems my colleagues left!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u126	Mr. Luís Montenegro, here, has no reason, because we would like to vote for this diploma of open hands and clean conscience, because we launched the dematerialization process in 2008/09 and it was welcomed by everyone. This is not a matter of conflict. Portugal arrived early, arrived well, the sector developed and our DNA became a programmatic part of this point and continues to do so. As for this aspect, there is no doubt. Now, the time, Mr Secretary of State, and the lack of transparency impress us, because what Mrs Mariana Mortágua said about the situation in the sector is indisputable, is known. All those who have studied this sector know this and my question remains: is it available to pass on to us the assessment of the application of the 2008 legislation on this subject, or does it tell us that there is no study? Oh, my God! In the Tombo Tower there was an excellent debate promoted by ESPAP ( Entities of Shared Services of Public Administration ), there will be on the 19th day, in Porto, an entire day debate promoted by an association of the sector and which will, in fact, be of great use, and there is no reason not to have total transparency. As for the substance of the matter, Mr Secretary of State, there are issues which cannot be resolved in a law, should be referred to the office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u127	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u128	Here is an article that says so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u129	It's worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u130	... and I will quote you, Mr. President, just to give an idea of what this law is:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u131	Quickly, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u132	... « Platforms(...) shall have the capacity(... ) respecting: (...) », the following rules, « (...) Remote access to file systems(if applicable): WebDAV ; (...) », « (...) message delivery scheme(...) : WS-RM ; (...) ». If I were to say W-F-R-Z it was the same for you guys. Members, of course, and for me too, because they are protocols. It is a matter that should not be here, but what must be here are the rates, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u133	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u134	What's it gonna be like with the fees? Because they are necessary to know how much the authorities pay, what is the implication for small and medium-sized enterprises and, therefore, to see if this law distorts or favours competition. This is what the PS Parliamentary Group is going to do, using all the means of regulation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u135	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The first disagreement with what we have just heard in the speech made by Mr José Magalhães is that the role of the Secretary of State is either to clean up or to resolve anything. It has been more in the opposite direction, as indeed in the Government in general. It's nothing personal, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u137	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u138	There are procedural and operational matters of the electronic public procurement platforms which are consensual. There are advances that we all consider positive in the availability and free access, in interoperability and non-discrimination, the references to the national regulation on digital interoperability, to the open standards... In fact, it was on the proposal of the CFP, in the Assembly of the Republic, that the rules of procedure are now in force and the registration and traceability thereof, let us say so. But this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the same thing that, in transport privatization, private companies have an obligation to let everyone who pays tickets in. I mean, these are the things we didn't expect to be called into question, but they've been. They've been called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u140	There is a requirement for safety checks and risk analysis, application security, without prejudice to any compensation that would be necessary in relation to physical safety — Article 46. The, is already alerted. of these matters, however, there is a question that cannot be ignored for the sake of wisdom and the quality of legislation, and it has already been clarified here, that a law of the Assembly of the Republic with references to standards, systems and technical requirements and concrete matters, which are, by nature, temporary, may pose problems which, in the not very distant future, place the Assembly of the Republic before an outdated and inadequate law. On the other hand, the aspects identified by the National Data Protection Commission, and not only those referred to by the majority, need to be seen in its entirety. But in all this discussion there is a fundamental issue that has to do with the conception and the political option of having a strategic, critical aspect, for the functioning of the entire State and not only in real estate and construction—in fact, the very question of protecting these matters is in the institute which is even raising some perplexity. And all of this is given into the hands of private interests, with highly worrying contours, moreover, in relation to transparency in these market configurations, and to the tendingly dominant economic groups, such as those mentioned here in political and economic processes, which still have reasons for great concern and high alertness in our country. When the State has its own public procurement in the hands of private companies, when it has the privatization of public procurement operations, not only for the economy and for state office materials, we are talking about the privatizations and concessions of transport, energy, water, the transposition of directives of this matter is very clear and that is why there is a fundamental disagreement on the part of the CFP. With regard to the design and strategy in this area, which over the years the PS, first the PSD and the CDS-PP have now been putting in this principle of electronic public procurement, the CFP considers that it is technically and administratively a step forward. We are in favour of the electronic public procurement with the advance and transparency that some subjects should reflect, but not with this option to deliver to private interests, and sometimes with highly worrying contours, these types of subjects and issues of strategic and critical interest for the functioning of the entire State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u141	Since a question has been asked by some sides by Mr Secretary of State, if the Secretary of State intends to reply, the Bureau will give it one minute for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u142	If possible, I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u143	You have the floor to answer, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u144	Mr President, I thank you very much for this tolerance. I would then like to go directly to the two most important topics that were asked. First of all, the impact it has on competition. The purpose of the law is exactly the opposite. We have also received the indication of this association and we have had the opportunity to examine ourselves a second time on the economic and financial data which, whether the sectoral regulator or ESPAP had given us, have confirmed us for a second time, and we will, of course, refer them to Parliament for discussion on the subject — what Mr. José Magalhães said recently, that the impact will be neutral or positive, because, although the number of free acts is extended, the market is also extended by means of the number of free acts and in the name of transparency and the use of electronic platform. Our expectation is the opposite, which competition increases, with nothing to do with the reduction of market players. Last note, contracting entities and cost. What happened, often at this time, is that the platform was available free of charge to the contracting authority, but then it was those who competed that they had to pay a very high cost, which reduced competition in relation to the competitions and harmed the contracting entity in the final result. What we wanted to do was create a fully transparent regime in which the cost is lower and is paid by the contracting authority and in which everyone can use the market because of interoperability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u145	This point is then closed. I remember the ladies. Members who are currently voting for the Economic and Social Council in Chamber D.a. Maria and, since the votes, which were scheduled for noon, were passed to the end of the debate, the ballot will remain open until that time. I call on the Secretary to announce two initiatives, insofar as he has to do before the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau, have been admitted and will still have to be voted on today, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolution No 1464 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, developing the legal regime of the transfer of competence of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September ( PCP ), and draft resolution No 1466 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, in developing the legal regime of the transfer of competence of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u147	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point five of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 321 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal arrangements for the organisation of the services of inter-municipal entities and the status of their respective management staff. To submit this bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the last four years, the government in the area of local administration has undertaken a very profound reform, with extraordinary results already achieved by the authorships, above all, but also by the laws which the government and the majority have been adopting in this Parliament. With these results and with these reforms, we have managed to consolidate the financial sustainability of the authorities, make a very significant structural adjustment and move towards a change in the infrastructure paradigm, to bet on economic, local and also social development. But there is an area in which there is work to be done in the field of local administration, which has to do with the territorial scale of the Portuguese municipalities. It is true that, considering population and territory, Portugal has fewer municipalities than the European average or the OECD average, but on the other hand, it has an asymmetric reality, with some small-scale municipalities— 115 with less than 10 000 inhabitants. Therefore, we must gain scale in the work of many municipalities. But our path is not the merger imposed by municipalities, it is intermunicipalism, sharing and integration of services, coordinated and implemented by the authorships themselves. We have already started this path long ago with the 2013 Intermunicipal Entities Framework Law, with the financial premium from 2016, for intermunicipal entities that can jointly improve development levels in their territory, with Portugal 2020, Community funds in which we favour the joint action of municipalities in the face of individual action, but also with this bill, which will allow intermunicipal entities to affirm themselves as capable entities, with a robust structure and to receive new roles, new competences, sharing and integrating services and functions that were in the municipalities. This week too, with the presence of Mr Prime Minister, we have given great impetus in this reform for the integration and sharing of services in the authorities. We presented the script for the reform of the sharing and integration of services, we signed two framework agreements with groups of municipalities, voluntarily, in the Aveiro region and in the Basso Guadiana, and a dispatch, signed by me and today published, which makes available to all the inter-municipal entities in the country a financing line of EUR 3.5 million to support integration and sharing projects of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that there is work to be done to share and integrate functions, services, equipment and tasks of the Portuguese municipalities, a work that has to be done with them and by them, on a differentiated, heterogeneous and voluntary basis. We believe that, in many cases, only a greater scale of action brings more quality, sustainability and even viability to services, functions and tasks. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed law we are discussing here is an important part of this latest reform within the reforms of the local administration, which, working and improving the scale of action of municipalities, sharing and integrating services, giving better services to citizens and taxpayers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u149	Mr António Gameiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Faces and Dear Mrs. Members : Mr Secretary of State, in fact we agree that this path of sharing and integration needs to be made, but the speech that you have brought here is completely contradictory with the practice of the government. Otherwise, Mr Secretary of State, how can all this be achieved and, in what is more structural for the development of our populations, our territories, our regions, the government is making a ceiling on Community funds, leaving out of the will of the municipalities? He responds, Mr Secretary of State, as this speech is right with what is most decisive in this Community framework that we are now starting to run with two years of delay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u151	Two years late? Oh, my God! There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u152	...say there how does the government leave the authorities behind, what has the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities already brought it to the public? In fact, this is not true of the speech that Mr. Secretary of State brought here. This bill comes in the right direction. The PS Parliamentary Group welcomes it, although it has many doubts and there is a way to improve the diploma. We had already stressed in this plenary that it was necessary to complete what the inter-municipal communities and the metropolitan areas themselves were doing, since there was a legislative gap with regard to the regime of their leadership and the qualifier of workers, but also with regard to the reorganization of the services of these entities, the definition of the competences of their bodies and, above all, with regard to the definition of the types of organisation. This law finally addresses these questions. However, we would like to ask you five questions, Mr Secretary of State, and the first has to do with the fact that this diploma wants to deal with the matter for the inter-municipal communities and the metropolitan areas, but often, article to article, it is finding solutions for only one another, leaving matters which must be regulated together for both situations, in what they are in relation to their mission, their objectives, their competences and assignments, and, in a different way, what they have no reason to be. We therefore find here a different subject which needs to be improved. Secondly, in relation to the competences of the management staff, contrary to what the Code of Administrative Procedure enshrines today, the proposal does not include matters which are delegated by the management of the services. In the legislation in question, there are only own competences, which means that there is no compliance with what the Code of Administrative Procedure determines and that there should be for better speed, efficiency and effectiveness of services. Thirdly, the proposal provides for the possibility of creating project teams for inter-municipal entities but not for metropolitan areas. I would like to ask whether this is proposed, whether there is any question of mission or assignment that can make this differentiation. Finally, nothing is said about matters relating to the renewal of the service, replacement, working hours, termination of duties, nor is the applicable subsidiary scheme here. Finally, the structures already created, because, however, there was no law, they have no treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u153	Please finish, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u154	In conclusion, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that only by bad legislative technique can it be provided that the jury for a competition for leading positions has only two elements. This is, in a way, articulated with the Code of Administrative Procedure in its articles 22. o is 31. the, can't be understood, because it doesn't even have substitutes for the case of one of them missing. I therefore conclude by saying that Mr. Secretary of State brings here another proposal, but it is an avulous proposal, which has solved a legislative gap problem. It is unfortunate that the Government is now so concerned about privatization and has never again spoken of the reform of the State, of the reform of the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u155	Mr Fernando Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u156	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: Law No. 75 / 2013, which, among others, approved the status of inter-municipal entities, was omitted regarding the status of the executive positions of the technical and administrative support services of these entities. This proposal for a law thus establishes the legal regime for the organization of those services of inter-municipal entities, as well as the status of the management staff. It is a necessary and timely legislative initiative, because, as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities says, the definition and application of these regimes to inter-municipal entities has long been required because the legislative omission has brought inconveniences, uncertainties and legal and administrative uncertainties that do not contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of the operation of these entities. With this diploma, the powers of the deliberative bodies, the executive committee and the executive secretary and the management staff, as well as staff status, recruitment and selection rules and remuneration status are thus clarified. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Administrative decentralization has been one of the pillars of State reform. This diploma is another piece of local administration reform, along with many others that have changed the paradigm and vision of a modern local power, preparing it for the new challenges, now that the inter-municipal entities are prepared to take on new responsibilities and competences. Still this week, as Mr. Secretary of State said, the Government has made another contribution to this by presenting the script for the reform of the integration and sharing of municipal services. The objective is that various services, whether internal services or services provided to the community, can be done together, achieving an increase in the scale of action of the authorities, achieving savings and avoiding duplication, integrating this preferably done by inter-municipal entities, but always voluntarily and not imposed, thus respecting the widespread autonomy of the local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u158	by signing an agreement for a pilot experience with a CIM (intermunicipal community) and three municipalities, by creating a working group that identifies the main areas and services with greater integration potential and by providing technical and financial support to integration processes, the government thus gives further encouragement to deepen intermunicipal integration. Inter-municipal entities, whether they are metropolitan areas or inter-municipal communities, are thus increasingly important in this process of decentralization, and so should have their technical services and properly framed staff, which this diploma enshrines. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u159	Mr Altino Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u160	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mr. Members: Today we are discussing Bill No 321 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which is to establish the legal arrangements for the organisation of the services of the inter-municipal entities and the status of the management staff. I recall that Law No 2 / 2004 approved the status of the management staff of the services of the central, regional and local administration, establishing their own application to the local administration. The successive laws and amendments that have been made over the last few years only concern the management of municipal chambers and municipal services. Even Law No 75 / 2013, which established the legal regime of local authorities and approved the status of inter-municipal entities, is omited in relation to the leading positions of the technical and administrative support services of inter-municipal entities. I recall what the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself says in the opinion on this bill: « The definition and application of these regimes to inter-municipal entities has long been required ». This proposal for a law is therefore very timely and represents one of the key moments in promoting the relevant development role that inter-municipal entities, both inter-municipal communities, both metropolitan areas, play and can play in economic growth, competitiveness, territorial cohesion, the optimization of resources, the provision of services for the benefit of the citizen and the municipality, in the most various areas and the role they can play in the work of municipalities, integrated into the broad reform of local power, carried out by this government, with the aim of granting the powers and assignments, thus extending their focus on the social life of the municips. These key moments, which this proposal is part of, translate the result of a process of cooperation, trust, learning between the state and the municipalities, and through these, the intermunicipal entities, translating a coherent strategy and a path, a path based on institutional strengthening of cooperation between municipalities, where the gains are evident to all Portuguese. In short, we can define five of these key moments. First: the in-depth study with two CIMs of Aveiro and Alto Minho, in 2012, called « decentralization and intermunicipal cooperation ». According to : Law No. 75 / 2013, through which the mapping of inter-municipal entities was restructured, strengthened its governance and legitimacy. Third: the definition of Portugal 2020, through which there is the strategic and concerted action of municipalities through inter-municipal entities. Fourthly, the decentralization of the State to municipalities and to inter-municipal entities, particularly in the field of transport and social functions. Fifth and final: this proposal for a law on the organization of services and the status of the leaders of inter-municipal entities. This proposal is timely and necessary. It is a clear contribution to clarify the operational framework of inter-municipal entities and it is based, as we consider logical by the natural causality and dependence relationship, on the defined framework for local authorities. This is what the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon consider, with whom we have already had the pleasure of meeting. The CDS Parliamentary Group is available to deepen and improve this bill in the field of expertise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The successive legislative amendments imposed by the PSD and the CDS-PP to the democratic local power have contributed to their weakening and to the reduction of their capacity to carry out. Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the Legal Regime of Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities is an example of this, a law which has been declared unconstitutional in some norms, in particular in those relating to inter-municipal communities. The creation of inter-municipal communities alone constitutes an atropelo to the free association of municipalities. The legal regime associated with inter-municipal communities, from an organizational point of view and its tasks and competences, is based on a clear strategy of definitive abandonment of the possibility of the creation of administrative regions, as advocated by our Constitution, and an emptying of municipalities with the centralization of their competences in the inter-municipal communities. We do not follow this option of densifying the competences of the inter-municipal communities by withdrawing them to the authorities, in particular human resources competences, monitoring, financial issues or planning of the territory. This is an obvious usurpation of the competences of the municipalities. The bill we are discussing today comes from Law No. 75 / 2013 and proposes a new legal regime for the organization of services of intermunicipal entities. We cannot follow it, as we do not follow the strengthening of the allocation and competences of the inter-municipal communities. On the pretext of the need to regulate the services of the inter-municipal communities, the Government has taken advantage to assign more competence to these entities, which must be exclusive to each municipality and which falls within the framework of human resources management. It proposes that the government take up the role of managing body of the requalification system in local authorities. We reject this requalification system at all, but does it make any sense that another entity that does not own the municipality has competence at this level? He doesn't do anything. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pressure and blackmail exerted by this government on municipalities to implement their political options is so unacceptable that yesterday it was even reported that the government created a line of funding for municipalities to present projects for the integration of services within the inter-municipal communities. It's a shame! Under the pompous designation of Integration Reform and Sharing of Services between municipalities, the government emptied the municipalities of their competences, concentrating them on the inter-municipal communities that interfere in the day-to-day management of each municipality, while creating the conditions for a day later the powers to deliver to the private. They do not count on the PCP to dismantle local democratic power, to destroy public services and public employment and to advance with more privatization! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has the greatest reservations as to the existence of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities in the current configuration. In fact, I'm not giving any news. We disagreed with a departure from the competences of the municipalities to entities whose organs do not result from the direct legitimacy of the popular vote. The Secretary of State spoke here and stressed the reforms made by the Government, in particular with regard to inter-municipal entities, but he just forgot to say that the reform of the Government was not done exactly as the Government wanted, because in this part it was even considered unconstitutional, as it is well remembered, and the Government had to retreat on some matters. In fact, it was Mr Secretary of State who said this clearly: « New competences are needed for CIMs, and these powers must be integrated from the municipalities today». The words are yours and were said a few minutes ago. It is precisely here that the problem lies in withdrawing powers from municipalities, which have the legitimacy of popular voting, to give them to other bodies which do not have that legitimacy. This is to stop talking about the position of the majority benches, which resist, even to resist talking about the issue of administrative regions, as we well know. And don't argue with intermunicipalism, because that's something else, Mr. Secretary of State. It would be very interesting to have a debate on this new paradigm. Today, by chance, we do not have a grid of times that sustains it, but I would say that intermunicipalism is not that, it is not to withdraw skills, on the contrary, it is to freely enhance the projects and programs that municipalities want to do. Well, the CIS isn't that. CIMs are determined administratively, are these and are not others. in this sense, Mr Secretary of State, I must tell you that we cannot follow legislative initiatives that deepen and expand the reduction of democratic legitimacy resulting from direct vote. This initiative by the Government is about this, it allows the expansion of the administrative apparatus of these entities, giving them a legal framework that did not exist, it is true, but it is still missing the fundamental issue, which is legitimacy for these entities. We do not agree that skills are withdrawn from the municipalities and, more than that, that the options of the municipalities are conditional, because what is heard today in the municipalities is: « we cannot do this because it is already in the CIM ; we cannot go there because there is already a common project». It is not acceptable to withdraw the competences and the possibility of choosing the municipalities by entities that do not have the legitimacy of the popular vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u166	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking Mr António Gameiro, in particular the issues he has raised and the willingness to improve his diploma. on the part of the Government, although we do not have formal legislative power, we are absolutely available for dialogue and to improve this diploma together, and I must tell you that I like to see this availability in the Socialist Party. But the honourable Member said: "I have never heard of state reform again." Mr. Deputies, we do state reform every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u168	We don't need to talk about her every day! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u169	And with you and with your party I only hear about walking back in state reform! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, in reforms, there is a line that divides us, those who move forward and those who want to walk back. [[PS Member Protests António Gameiro.]] But let me tell you, Mr President, that somewhere you had your « António Guterres moment with GDP » at the time of the current framework of Community funds, saying that we were in two years' delay. Mr, there are tenders and money to be injected with Portugal 2020, there are tenders to run, we have all regulations approved and we are far from the second year! We are walking to the year of Portuguese history with the highest executions of Community funds
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u170	Projects, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u171	But on the subject of the availability of funds for municipalities in Portugal 2020 - let me tell you that the contractualization, as I believe we all agree, through inter-municipal entities, in Portugal 2020, increases, compared with the previous QREN, from EUR 1400 million to EUR 1800 million, now. It's a lot more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u172	They're worth EUR 1000 million outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u173	Please finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u174	Secondly, as regards location, the decision on the installation of equipment from central and local administration is taken together, i.e., for the first time in history, the local administration, through its inter-municipal entities, also decides on the location of the equipment in the territory of the central administration. Mrs Paula Santos, we do not seek to empty municipalities, we seek to enhance the activity of the municipalities, making them act together voluntarily.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u175	Please finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u176	Mrs. Helena Pinto, the inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas are headed by elected chamber presidents, i.e., they are organs composed of elected people. There is obvious democratic legitimacy. We don't want to withdraw or empty anything. However, we are sure that municipalities, acting together, do more, more sustainablely, better for taxpayers and better for citizens. This is a reform we want and we are doing, and it is one more. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u177	With no further inscriptions, we have reached the end of this item on today's agenda. To announce a draft resolution, and having to do before the votes, Mr Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau introduced draft resolution No 1467 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, in developing the legal regime of the transfer of competence of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September ( The Greens ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u179	We will move on to the next point in our order of work, which consists in the assessment of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February, which establishes the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, developing the legal regime of the transfer of competences of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September[ Parliamentary assessment No 132 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. To submit the request for parliamentary approval, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A true process of decentralization of competences must correspond to an effective increase in the capacity to respond, strengthen the rights and meet the needs of the people, ensuring quality public services. A real process of decentralization of competence cannot call into question universality nor accentuate asymmetries and must contribute to territorial cohesion, respecting the autonomy of the democratic local power. A genuine process of decentralization of competences must ensure the necessary means for the development of these same competences. But we are not faced with such a process. We are not faced with a process of decentralization of competences but rather with a government deresponsibility for guaranteeing fundamental social rights, such as education, health, social security and culture, with Decree-Law No 30 / 2015. It is not decentralisation that is concerned because we are faced with a contractualization, maintaining these powers under the responsibility of the Government, which contracts with another entity, in this case the authorities, for the implementation of these powers, including treating the authorities as decentralised services of the central administration. It is irresponsible that this is because the government transfers powers whose problems are far from being solved, thus also transferring to the authorities the discontent of the people today. It is deresponsibility that it is because the resources allocated for the implementation of these powers are insufficient, with the same continuing problems that exist today, and some powers-CL will even worsen. It is deresponsibility that it is because the universality of fundamental rights is at stake when there is no longer a policy and an orientation for tens or even hundreds. In this way, inequalities and territorial asymmetries will increase. The government says the country is more centralized. It's true. But we can ask: where was the government when it decided to close hundreds of public services, such as schools, health extensions, courts, TTC, decentralised services to support the productive sectors and even extinguished the parish? Where has the government been to reorganize administratively and move forward with the regionalisation process, as our Constitution recommends? It speaks of decentralization, but perhaps we are before the most centralizing government in recent years, while, for example, it constantly disregards the autonomy of local democratic power and imposes on the authorities what their political options are. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015 was imposed against all and against all. The authorities, in broad consensus in their Congress, expressed themselves against this process, as well as the educational community, health workers or workers in general. The transfer of competences to the authorities, as defined by the Government, is part of the strategy of reconfiguration of the State and dismantling of the social functions of the State. We therefore propose that this diploma cease to apply. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u181	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u182	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party, under the constitutional and regulatory rules in force, has requested the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February 2015 establishing the system of delegation of competence in the fields of social functions in municipalities and intermunicipal entities. The initiative is legitimate but, above all, important. And this is because, if there are matters in which we clearly perceive what distinguishes us, they are subjects such as the centrality of the citizen in public policies, confidence in the performance in municipalities, strengthening the proximity of the state, but also decentralization. The CFP repeats, in the explanatory statement, arguments which are briefly recognised to it. It says to defend an autonomy of local power, but after all, either a centralized state. It says to believe in the capacity of municipalities and school groupings in the pursuit of essential subjects such as education, but, after all, defends that everything is ordered and planned from 5 October. It is also said alongside the municipalities, which defends their freedom, but beyond those who freely chose to accept these new competences. [[Well, there it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u183	It accuses the Government of deresponsibility of its social functions, says that, by delegating these powers, the Government intends to deresponsibility of its functions. And, at the same time and in the same sentence, it is possible to say that this decentralization is a disrespect by the municipalities since decentralization, in its view, had to be total. It also denies that the decentralization model progresses gradually by pilot projects, because, for the PCP, ensuring equal access is to impose equality even when reality is different and should, for reasons of justice, force a permanent adequacy. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u184	We know why. We know that it is not easy to combine freedom with corporate interests. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The approved decentralization model is not taxed, it is a model that progresses gradually by pilot projects. This model ensured, by law, equal access to the municipalities concerned, determined, as a mandatory, the transfer of the financial, human and heritage resources necessary and sufficient to the exercise of the competences by the municipalities and defined the existence of an evaluation and monitoring mechanism involved by both the central administration and the local administration. Mr President, the decentralization of competences we are debating today has a model that is public, open, progressive, monitorable and voterable, the result of ongoing dialogue and deepening, and dependent on the will and autonomy of municipalities, in cooperation with school groupings, health services and parental associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u185	That's why everyone's against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u186	Mrs. Members, the decentralization of competences we are discussing today, after more than a decade of studies, analyses, programmes and proposals, results from a commitment, arising from the realization and, above all, from a relevant political requirement, comes from coherence between public policies that put the citizen first. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : « Decentralisation is the cornerstone of state reform ». This conviction of the Socialist Party is suddenly known by the word of its Secretary-General. The Government also identifies particular interest in decentralization when it refers to it as « one of the pillars of State reform ». So far, everything is peaceful. There is harmony in the great principle. In fact, it couldn't be any other way. The decentralization of competences is not only desired as necessary. But if there is anything for this government to do — I would say, it really does — it is to make decisions that constitute facts of bad memory. Frankly, this was a matter that had everything to be right, but the government chose to find an excessively experimental, selective and conjunctural model, which immediately leads to the intention of classifying the process under way as a reform and much less as a serious and consequent process of decentralization, of transfer of competences. Moreover, this delegation of competence for some, by contract and in the long term, is, if any, one of the alleged structural reforms that serve as a warmup to the majority for the election campaign, operated in total opposition to Alexander Herculano's motto, for whom "it is the progress of ideas that bring about reforms, and not the progress of public evils that make them inevitable". In fact, a curious phrase which, yesterday, in a forum, here in Lisbon, both Antonio Costa and Santana Lopes, when discussing decentralization, knew how to respect and deepen this debate. And in these things of local power, the list of ideas, sadder than progress, is already extensive. These are examples: the idea of the tax method of extinction, by aggregation, of fregueses in an unwanted confrontation with autarchs; the idea of the process of reducing the number of leaders, weakening technical support for political decision-making and disallowing the autarchs in the management exercise; the imposition of financial and administrative restrictions on local authorities, soon backed by the brilliant idea of a law of commitments and late payments; and the idea that the autarchies do not have competence for basic functions, such as managing their own water supply systems. In fact, without studies or debates on models of competence, financing and transfer of resources, despite having expressed in the law in September 2013, no new perspectives of State organization brought by the institutional debate, and without an extended prior consultation with the main protagonists of decentralization, i.e., the authorities, are disrespected the principles of universality and equity and there is a strong risk of potentiating asymmetries as a result of this unequal process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u189	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u190	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Poiares Maduro, assisted in hearing in the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power last Tuesday by Luther King, saying: “People often look to the top of the ladder but do not go up the first step”. We were probably before a self-assessment exercise and the Minister wanted to tell us that the first step had been yours. It is appropriate to say, fortunately to all, and particularly to the local power, that the Minister has not passed from the first step. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u191	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State Mrs and Mrs. Members: The challenge to Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015 of 12 February has been made in several tones and on various aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u193	What about the support? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u194	It is of course displeasing to those who have effective and effective decentralization, because it is merely a delegation of competences, temporary, through an inter-administrative contract, and nothing has to do with a decentralization that is led by territorial intermediate institutions, legitimized by popular vote. Therefore, he knows little and has no consequence for those who are truly decentralizing regionalists. But now, where does this type of experimental, limited and temporary decentralization affect? in a number of areas, where the central administration seeks, above all, not to increase the decision-making capacity of local authorities but to pass to local authorities a set of financial and other responsibilities. And we've found that, in the area of education, it's even more disastrous. Why? Because it is attributed to the municipal chambers competences, from the point of view of the educational organization of the school, the management of the framework of teachers or teaching technicians, issues related to the curriculum process, issues related to disciplinary issues of students. All this is poured out for the contracts that have been negotiated with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u195	Wrong! Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u196	And when we look at a first contract in the field of health, we find anything we also distrust, in relation to the so-called "municipalization of schools": it is the possibility of the entry of private persons, of the transfer to private persons, to the IPSS, in the case of health. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] Finally, from the point of view of the educational area, let us not forget the script of the state reform, of the proposal of the Deputy Prime Minister Paulo Portas, welcomed by the whole Government, that the municipalization of education is the foreclosure of the delivery of public schools to independent schools. It's all there, it's a document with the chance of this government, not any other. in this circumstance, we ask for the cessation of force here. I believe that it can be detrimental to the election campaign of the PSD and the CDS, but that is not what really matters to a rule of law. It is important for a rule of law that we have a suffrage of decentralization, a decentralisation which is consensual and is intermitted by elected regional or metropolitan institutions, and not this artifact that is being done. Secondly, it is important that we have, in fact, decision-making capacity, and not that we atrophy the autonomy of schools and that we seek to transfer the competences of health centres to the IPSS. That is really the core of this Decree-Law and of the others. And I will no longer talk about that other proposal in the area of culture, which is also a pilgrimage, which is merely to clear to local authorities the burden of the absence of a national cultural budget policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u197	Tell that to the communities!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decentralization of competences is a matter of greatest importance for Portugal and for Portuguese, which the left parliament, in a recognized effort of creativity, has no doubt wanted to make here an attack on the social functions of the State and public services. The Portuguese Communist Party came here today and once again accuse the government and this majority of disrespect for the autonomy of local democratic power. The Portuguese Communist Party once again came to this House to accuse the government of treating the authorities as mere enforcers of central government policies. We ask the Portuguese Communist Party : what was the chamber, what were the cameras that were forced to accept the decentralization of competences? What were the cameras? [[What were they?! All right! Say one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u200	Let's see the Community funds regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u201	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen! No camera in this country has been threatened or co-administered to conclude inter-administrative contracts. And you know why? precisely because we are not faced with a model imposed, Mrs Paula Santos, we are, yes, before an ambitious model, a phased and widely participated model, to which the municipalities have freely and voluntarily joined, and for which they had the opportunity to negotiate the terms and conditions of acceptance of the contract. Because it is true, we ask ourselves: what legitimacy does the Portuguese Communist Party have in order to oppose the decision-making position of these municipalities? Does the fact that no chamber of the Portuguese Communist Party has acceded to this project give the PCP the legitimacy of criticizing the decision made voluntarily, for example, by the Cascais Municipal Chamber or by the Amadora Municipal Chamber, by the Municipality of Oliveira de Azemés or by the Municipal Chamber of Vila Nova de Famalicão, or, why not, by the Municipal Chamber of Maia?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u202	But it's the legitimacy of the government, it's not from the cameras!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u203	We understand you're not, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't. It is incomprehensible that left-wing parties continue to refer to the decentralization of competences as a provocation to the authorities and the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u204	Delegation of competences!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u205	It is incomprehensible and regrettable that some party devices have tried to intercede and even reject that municipalities, in their free will, could assume additional responsibilities in a public service. It is incomprehensible and has only one interpretation: that of the denial of local power and that of the absolute and objective denial of the autonomy of local power, which they so proclaim. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary left failed—and failed across the line. You have failed to accuse this government of treating the authorities as mere divisions of the State, when this decentralization model is the method that most respects the authorities and their wills. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u207	He failed again by questioning the contractualization model through pilot project, when this is considered by the interveners as a credibility factor. The parliamentary left failed—and it continues to fail—because it keeps the intention to confuse the most unsuspecting and miss the truth to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u208	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who misses the truth to the Portuguese is not reliable in planning the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Maria Assumption Esteves was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u209	Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u210	I must say that I am particularly pleased to come to Parliament today to discuss two very important reforms. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Don't! There are two debates! They are, twice, two debates of two major reforms in local administration. I know you are. Ladies and gentlemen don't like reforms, but the country likes and needs! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] For decades we have heard almost all of us defending decentralization, speaking of it, calling it « angular stone», but do... no! Today, in fact, when we discussed the most ambitious process of decentralization that the country lived, we saw that there were three positions: that of the Communist Party, faithful to itself, in the defense of centralism;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u211	Is that again the best argument you have?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u212	In fact, it would be difficult to perceive and reconcile something other than centralism, looking at the history, organization and vision of the Communist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u213	of the Socialist Party, we have seen more of it and defend, through abstract words, decentralization, thus honoring its history, therefore, from abstract words to reality and concrete decision do not pass. In fact, this is a truth that has happened with the Socialist Party and its current leader: almost a year ago, in July last year, at a meeting of the Territorial Concertion Council, the Government presented this model, not another, the gradual method in pilot projects in these social areas, in health, in social security and in culture, in those specific competences and (so far!) the not yet leader António Costa (maybe at that time a little insecure! ) He didn't object. In fact, he even said: “Why not do it in transport? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And we're doing transport! But now, in honor of his history, « reforms are with others! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No problem, we're here for that! Reforms is with us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] With you, abstract words do not give concrete decisions and the reforms of others are to go back. [[PS protests.]] But no! This government and this majority do the deepest process of decentralization that Portugal has experienced, is ambitious in the areas and in the dimension,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u214	So it's not! There are those who are 'knocking their hands'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u215	...as in the area of passenger transport. This Parliament has already approved a decentralisation in passenger transport for all Portuguese, for all municipalities, i.e. for 10 million. It is ambitious in the reorganization of the services of the State, contracting, by free will of 41 municipalities, of all party spectra. We contracted, state and municipalities, more than 1 million people. Is that 1 million people little? Oh, my God! I thought every Portuguese was counting and when it was 1 million even more important it would be this reform! In the social functions, which we discussed here in particular — health, culture and social security — we have already concluded contracts with a number of municipalities, by free will, those municipalities representing more than 1 million Portuguese, more than 110 000 students, that is more than 10 % of the population and more than 10 % of the public education network. Isn't this ambitious in matter and scope? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] Of course it is! But this has been a very involved process at national level. We had a year with several, at least six, meetings with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, dozens and dozens of meetings with municipalities, with local school communities, discussing, building, contracting, by free will. This is a process of decentralization which respects local autonomy, on the one hand, because it does not impose. We do not impose new competences on the authorities in these areas, we contract with them, with those they want, of free will, because they want to respond to this challenge of providing new services to their populations. However, we also respect local autonomy because these contracts have the so-called associated financial backpack, i.e. the state transfers to the municipalities the same resources it applied. Mrs. Members, I gladly share, some of the minutes of contract that we concluded with these municipalities to realize this, eyes in the eyes, with these roles, with these contracts and with the agreements we made with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u216	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u217	Finally, it is a prudent and gradual reform, because it is implemented with several municipalities, gradually, according to their will, and is being expanded, respecting the will of the municipalities and the results of the evaluation, in which the State does not deresponsibility; the State continues, through the contractualization, to monitor quality, to finance. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to this reform, the choices are clear: those who are against everything; those who were supposedly with something, but cannot do anything; and those who want to change the country, and these are we. Thank you to the majority for supporting this effort! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u218	I thank the Secretary of State of the Local Administration for his congratulations. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor, who has had little time to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This process is far from consensual and that the general population and the workers are crying out for its implementation, quite the contrary. Mr. Secretary of State knows, the PSD and the CDS-PP also, that what we have seen, in relation to this process, is contest; contest in the authorities, because the position the authorities took in their congress was precisely against this process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u220	It wasn't against anything! Don't see that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u221	... by saying what should be a process of decentralization of competence and that this government has not done, and also in the workers and in the educational and school community. It is a clearly unclear process because what the government is doing is « line fishing », one by one, to see who can join this project or not. He says that no one has decentralization of competences, but this government has not done so either! This is not decentralization of powers, Mr Secretary of State, and you know very well! It is a purely contractual delegation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u223	It is a deresponsibility on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u225	Mrs Emília Santos said that no political options are being imposed on the authorities. Aren't you? Oh, my God! ... Then explain to us here why this government will favour and allocate Community funds to those authorities that have joined and contracted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u227	...in the process of transfers of competences, and others not going? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u228	Exactly! It's assumed by the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u229	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u230	This was assumed here in the Assembly of the Republic by Minister Poiares Maduro!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u232	That's not what Mr. Minister said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u233	Are they or are they not imposing pressure and blackmail on the authorities, which, in order to be able to access the Community funds, must adhere to the political options of this government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u235	It's unacceptable that it is. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that, if we refer very clearly to the nature of this process of dismantling the social functions of the State and, including its surrender to private individuals, it is because we already know that in one of these municipalities that signed the contractualization of competences in the area of education there is already a foundation, this foundation that has competence in the area of education, this foundation where the Jerome Martins Group, the Santander and even Alexandre Soares dos Santos itself participates. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What is the objective, Secretary of State? Is it to continue the public service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u237	Is it guaranteeing the universality of these rights to citizens, or is it actually opening a door for economic and financial groups, private entities, to use these sectors as well as to make all these rights a business? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u239	No, no! The CFP does not comply with this policy, we reject it completely, and we will continue to defend the rights of the Portuguese people who are enshrined in our Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u240	This concludes the debate on item 6 of our agenda. The following is point 7, for which no time has been assigned, consisting of motion for a resolution No 110 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which was adopted in Seoul on 12 November 2012. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 191 presences, so we have a quorum for deliberation. At the end of the vote we have two pedigree votes, which will be read and voted, and we will finally keep a minute of silence. Let us begin by voting No 279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of Engineer Joaquim Rosado Gusmão ( PSD ). I would ask the Secretary to read it out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u241	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Joaquim António Rosado Gusmão was born on 1 January 1921, in Évora, having died on 12 May 2015 at the age of 94. He graduated from Agronomic Engineering at the Higher Institute of Agronomy of the Technical University of Lisbon, in 1947, having begun to work immediately at the Autonomous Board of Works of Agricultural Hydraulics, where he participated actively in the planning and construction of water projects of the Vale do Sado, Vale do Lis and Vale do Sorraia. Specialist in irrigation works, he was President of the Association of Regantes and Founder of the Transformer of Agricultural Products of the Sorray Valley and of the Mutual Agricultural Credit Box in Coruche before returning to Lisbon to be President of the Agricultural Hydraulic Board between 1969 and 1975. Subsequently, he served in the United Nations until 1982, coordinating and implementing irrigation and development projects in Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. At the same time, he collaborated with the World Bank in evaluating projects and decision-making in hydraulic infrastructures and with the World Meteorology Organization. He returned to Portugal to serve as Director-General for Hydraulics and Agricultural Engineering, where he remained until 1989. During this time, he joined the X Constitutional Government, acting as Secretary of State for Agriculture for almost three years. He continued to collaborate on various irrigation and drainage projects, particularly with ProSystems SA until this year. The professional life of Engineer Joaquim Rosado Gusmão was dedicated, with commitment, to serving agriculture. His work contributed to a process of profound transformation of the country in agricultural terms, resulting from the implementation of a vast hydraulic work. He was decorated several times by the Portuguese Government: in 1957, with the Degree of Officer of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit ; in 1971, with Degree of Chief Officer of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit ; in 1988, with the Degree of the Great Cross of the Order of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit. It was also decorated by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, in 1988, with the rank of Chief Officer of the Order of Merit, with a star. He received several other praises in his professional life for his competence and dedication in the works and functions he performed, at the regional, national and even international level, for his valuable collaboration. The members of the Assembly of the Republic lend to the family their regret and honour to the engineer Rosado Gusmão for their work in favor of the development of national irrigation and agriculture. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 280 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of the former PS deputy Eduardo Pereira ( PS ), who will be read by Ms Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u243	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 9, at 87 years of age, Eduardo Ribeiro Pereira. Eduardo Ribeiro Pereira, born on June 28, 1927, was a unique person who imposed himself, by his personal, human and civic efforts and qualities, not only in the area of professional activity, but also in the area of political activity. He was not born in a golden cradle in Sesimbra, and he was able to face the harshest adversity. In his childhood and adolescence he distinguished himself as a student of the Valsassina College and the Technical Higher Institute, where, already a civil engineer, he served as a guest teacher. He was followed by a wide professional course, not only in Portugal, especially in the Azores, but also in Spain, more specifically in Galicia, and in Mozambique. But in addition to his academic and professional life, where he distinguished himself, Eduardo Pereira was called for the performance of executive functions in the provisional governments and joined the Socialist Party, in whose governments participated as Minister of Housing, Urbanism and Construction and as Minister of Internal Administration. Eduardo Pereira was also called to perform, with distinction, parliamentary functions in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic, including being President of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and a member of the Possible Monitoring Committee in East Timor and international parliamentary organizations, which are examples of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Western Europe and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. He was then appointed President of the Association of the Former Deputies. In the city plan, he served as mayor of the City Council of Lisbon, but Sesimbra, his native land, always counted on his intervention at the municipal level and collaboration in the newspaper O Sesimbrense, having this dedication been recognized, still a few years ago, with the award of the Municipal Merit Medal, assigned unanimously in the mandate of a different majority chamber of political guidance. Eduardo Pereira was also Curator of the East Foundation, where he distinguished himself for his action and altruistic concerns. He was a man of strong convictions, of verticality, of honorability and dedicated to his homeland, his friends and his family. He was a loyal and consistent political activist with his ideas, sometimes his hemorrhoids, which gave much to the party, who embraced, but, above all, he was a citizen who gave himself strongly to the causes of the development of the country, democracy and the dignity of the political institutions, they were a simple authority, the government or Parliament. He was a sportsman in the association of the Technician and an indefeable Benfiquist, in whose club he became vice-president and where he was very popular for the high number of votes he represented in general assemblies according to the antiquity and dedication to this club. The life of Eduardo Pereira, an example for his children and grandchildren, is well the exemplary history of the curriculum driven by a "fishing" sembranse that was distinguished in the exercise of the various positions and functions he performed in the service of Portugal, to the highest levels of responsibility in the country. The Assembly of the Republic pays its sincere tribute to the former Parliamentary and Governor Eduardo Ribeiro Pereira and presents the most heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and homeland. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau also addresses the family members here with a hearty embrace. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1439 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and eliminate practices of police violence and racism ( BE). The Left Block and the PCP requested that the vote be taken separately. The following methodology will therefore be as follows: points 1 and 3 will be voted together; point 2 will be voted separately; points 4, 5 and 7 together; and point 6 will be voted together. We shall therefore vote jointly on points 1 and 3 of draft resolution No 1439 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Catarina Marcelino.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Catarina Marcelino and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote together on points 4, 5 and 7 of draft resolution No 1439 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on point 6 of that motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes voted against the EB and abstained from PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Catarina Marcelino.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u245	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u246	Please, Mrs. Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u247	Madam President, it is to announce that, with regard to the draft resolution we have just voted on, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u248	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to vote on draft resolution No 1217 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide consumers with adequate information on the social energy tariff and exceptional social support to the energy consumer ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We continue to vote on draft resolution No 1462 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure full access to electricity and gas by families with economic difficulties ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u249	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u250	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u251	Madam President, the vote on this draft resolution should be taken separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u252	The Bureau does not have that indication, but the PS is in time to propose, if you understand it and if you all agree. If there is no objection from the plenary, please make the motion for a vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u253	I propose that the vote on point 4 separate from that of points 1, 2, 3 and 5 which may be combined.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u254	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on points 1, 2, 3 and 5 of draft resolution No 1462/ XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP and in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the application submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, asking the Social Security and Labour Committee for a 30-day vote of Bill No 898 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Cooperative Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of this vote, Bill No. 898 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) down to the Social Security and Labour Committee, without a vote. We now turn to the general vote on Bill No 318 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, in accordance with Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the general vote is followed by the proposal for a law No 322 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August, transposing Directive 2014 / 40 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001 / 37 / EC and Directive 2014 / 109 / EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014 / 40 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, establishing the library of warnings to be used in tobacco products. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and PS Member Manuel Mota, the PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles abstained.]] Bill No. 322 / XII ( 4. ( a ) down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u255	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u256	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u257	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present to the Bureau a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u258	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the general vote on Bill No 320 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the availability and use of electronic public procurement platforms provided for in the Public Contracts Code and transposes Article 29. Directive 2014 / 23 / EU, Article 22. the and Annex IV to Directive 2014 / 24 / EU and Article 40. the and Annex V to Directive 2014 / 25 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the PCP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 321/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal arrangements for the organisation of the services of inter-municipal entities and the status of their respective management staff. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 1464, 1466 and 1467 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities in the field of social functions, developing the legal regime of the transfer of competence of the State to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, approved by Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September[ Parliamentary assessment No 132 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ], submitted by the PCP, BE and Greens respectively. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 110 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which was adopted in Seoul on 12 November 2012. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 900 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to increase the transparency and control of the export credit agency ( COSEC ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1410 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate night fishing in inland waters ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE and the Greens abstained.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on the proposal for a law No 316 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new special arrangements applicable to entities licensed in the Madeira Free Zone from 1 January 2015. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSDP, the CDS-PP and the PS MP Jacinto Serrão, votes against the PCP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u259	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u260	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u261	Madam President, it is to announce that I will send a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u262	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on draft law No 869 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the universality of pre-school education for children from 4 years of age, making the first amendment to Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u263	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u264	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u265	Madam President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u266	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u267	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u268	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u269	Madam President, it is also to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u270	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 478 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime applicable to interceding relations between banking institutions and card service institutions as a means of payment of commercial transactions ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on two requests submitted by the BE and the PCP respectively for the plenary of the discussion and vote in the speciality of the proposal submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, in the part in which a Article 4 is added. o -A, under the heading « Amendment to Law No 23 -A / 2015 of 26 March” to Bill No 826 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). In addition, there is a further request for legal aid affecting the same matter submitted by the PS, which, by identifying Article 6 as the object of appeal by the plenary. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Administration, concerning draft law No 826 / XII ( 4. ( a ), referred to in the same way as the other two requirements, Article 4. the -A of the proposed addendum presented by the PSD and CDS-PP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether we can vote on these requests together, or whether we can vote on these requests together. Members intend to introduce them in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u271	Madam President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u272	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u273	Mr President, as far as I think you know, it has been obtained that the requests are approved, so that there are two minutes for each parliamentary group in the debate and only then the vote on the avocado article is taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall therefore put to the vote together the three requests for counsel and then give the floor to the honourable Members. Members, in accordance with the consensus established. Let us then vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] In accordance with the consensus established, I shall give the floor to Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last May 6, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, the Prime Minister was confronted by the Secretary-General of the CFP on this tax pardon granted to the New Bank and said that there was nothing exceptional or illegal in granting that tax pardon. On the following day, the PSD and CDS members presented to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration a proposal for a retroactive standard, hidden behind a diploma relating to commissions on bank accounts, to try to legalize a tax pardon that they knew was illegal. It had not been the complaint of the PCP and today, PSD and CDS would be approving, at the end of the day, a pardon for taxes to the New Bank, hidden behind a law of commissions on bank accounts. The PSD / CDS government, which does not forgive 1 cent of taxes on workers, pensioners, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the Government, which does not forgive 1 cent of taxes and even houses for Portuguese due to debts of €800, the Government, which places the funds to charge debts to private companies, is the same PSD / CDS government that tries, at the head, and behind another diploma, with a retroactive law, to legalise a pardon for taxes to the New Bank, which is already going to reach even higher values, obviously to benefit those who are staying with the bank in the privatisation process. The Government wanted to grant tax forgiveness to the New Bank and to whom it would have left the bank in the privatisation process. The Government knows that it has granted illegal tax forgiveness to the New Bank and knows that the law which it passed in March does not arrive, even though it has been a 'fact' in accordance with the New Bank and its privatisation. The government knows that this tax forgiveness is already EUR 85 million in emoluments, but it can achieve much more if the tax benefits are extended to the seal tax and to the IMT. The Government knew of the doubts about the legality of this tax pardon, because it is Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs himself who assumes these doubts, not only with regard to the legal coverage of this tax pardon, but with regard to the terms and conditions in which it could be required and in which such tax forgiveness could be granted. PSD and CDS-PP know that only with a retroactive law can they legalize an illegal tax forgiveness that has been granted to the New Bank. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: confronted by the CFP, in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, PSD and CDS justified this amendment with false arguments and explanations on the framework of banking committees. After the CFP denounces the maneuver, they have moved to a second stage, which is the stage of justification for the illegal tax forgiveness granted to the New Bank and which is now seeking to legalize, with a retroactive law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This process is not only a process that is against legality, which is against the rules of the functioning of the democratic State, in respect of the principle of legality, this process is a process in which, by the substantive options of the parties that support the government, PSD and CDS, it contradicts everything that should be the defense of national interest, the logic of equity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u276	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u277	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, this is a process in which, by the substantive options of the parties that support the government, PSD and CDS, it contradicts everything that should be the defence of national interest and the logic of equity that should be present and subsumed in fiscal policy and emphasises what we have just referred to, i.e. that this government has a policy with two weights and two measures, that the bank forgives taxes but crushes the workers and the people with an unfair tax burden. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u278	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative we are discussing is about banking committees. However, the proposal for an amendment to the vote in plenary has to do with the transfer of assets and the merger of financial institutions. This is therefore a proposal for a "martella" initiative in this legislative initiative. And why? Because this is an amendment made at the request of the Government, in accordance with the resolution of the Banco Espírito Santo and the creation of the New Bank, to the service of all other banks to save any kind of money injection into the Resolution Fund and, as I said, “put on a hammer” in a legislative initiative that has nothing to do with this. It is at least EUR 85 million from tax exemption to the New Bank, by the same Government and by the same majority who say that there is no room for any reduction in taxes to families. Those who say that families have to be sacrificed here have another benefit to the whole bank, through this tax exemption to the New Bank. That is why we want to make this vote in plenary, to show our repudiation and opposition to this legislative initiative of the majority, but also to say that it is an abuse, because it is covered by a discussion in the specialty where this topic was not discussed, where, whenever the majority was questioned, it never answered with transparency, where, still yesterday, when the Left Block asked « But why this? Is it really for the New Bank? Is it really for BES? Is it really tailor-made for this merger? », most did not answer the questions. Now, we know that «who is silent, consents», but we cannot stop passing this debate to the plenary because it also has constitutional implications. It is that this abuse, of presenting a proposal for an amendment on a subject which has nothing to do with the legislative initiative under consideration, risks unconstitutionality, for failing to comply with the common legislative procedure. Therefore, if you are looking at this debate in Bethlehem, let us hope that the bells will be played, because, in fact, 'putting the hammer' diplomas like this one, legislative amendments, which have nothing to do with the debate in general, in the proposals for amendments to the specialty, is not only an attack on democracy and the transparency of the democratic debate, it is also an attack on the Constitution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u280	Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps the generality of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, perhaps all those who are following this moment of parliamentary work are a little blared with what is happening. What we are doing here should be a very normal legislative process, at its final stage, a legislative process at the initiative of the two parties of the majority, in fact, benevolo and globally positive on substantive matters, which aimed at simplifying and standardizing the commissioning of deposit accounts to order — that was its basis — defending the rights of those who have the simplest accounts in our banking system, who are the holders of accounts to order. All the specialized work was done, i.e. this legislative initiative was voted here in plenary, in general, on 20 March, almost two months ago, and took place under the coordination of Mr Carlos Silva, who, in all his competence, welcomed and complied with the entire process of work in the speciality. The Banco de Portugal was heard, the Portuguese Association of Banks was heard, representative associations of the interests relevant to the topic were heard, which is the safeguard of the holders of deposits in order. The whole process went normally and would now be completed, expressing the benches' legitimate position towards the final text. What happened? And from here on, confrontation - directly, Madam President - because from here on, what was a very normal legislative process becomes something very serious which is at risk of embarrassing the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u282	From here on, what we have is that, on 8 May, a week ago, he introduced a proposal for an amendment to a matter which has to do with the retroactive interpretation of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, which is applicable, as has already been mentioned, to banking resolution processes, in particular to the only banking resolution process that has so far taken place in Portugal, which was the one concerning Banco Espírito Santo, and to those who may be - it is true, but we hope that it will not - can be verified in the future. There is no question of the legitimacy of the majority to propose this, but if he wanted to do so, he would do it on an autonomous legislative initiative. It is that this Assembly of the Republic, which has been prestigious in a unique way by the exemplary way as Mr Fernando Negrão,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u283	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u284	...with all the Members who have joined the Committee of Inquiry into BES, have addressed and worked in that Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u285	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u286	... cannot, now, overwhelm the legislative function, with this shame,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u287	... which is to, in a diploma on deposits to order, include a matter that has nothing to do with deposits to order. Madam President, what I am calling for, at the last hour, is not the best option. The majority who make this proposal and we will be here to discuss it, but not within the framework of this diploma. The majority cannot allow Parliament to be a puppet, at the service of the technical incompetence and political cowardice of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u288	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave two or three notes on this issue, but first of all I would like to thank the various subjects which you are grateful for. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party brought, yesterday afternoon, to the public space,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u290	They were watching if they were hiding! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u291	... having the Left Block and the Socialist Party going to the tow of the Communist Party. It is no wonder that the Communist Party has brought this issue to debate, it is no wonder that the Left Block will also do so, because, whenever it comes to banks, “here’s the king”, what you really want is to nationalize. at this moment, what is serious is that the Socialist Party has already gone that way and, in this circumstance, naturally supports everything that is nationalizing, making everything that is damaged from the state, as has happened in previous situations. The description of what is at stake here is mirrored exactly in the words used by Mr. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, and Mr João Oliveira, of the PCP, as « to the head » and « to the hammer ». In this Parliament, nothing is done 'to the top' or 'the hammer', in this Parliament everything is right in the eyes of all of us, everything is right in the eyes of all Portuguese, in fact, so we are here discussing this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in this circumstance, I would like to tell you this: this is a matter related to several amendments to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, which deals with deposits in order, minimum banking services. Moreover, I want to say here that this was the subterfuge arranged by the opposition to vote against this diploma, because its objective was to find an alleged scheme, so as not to vote favourably for this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u292	Troy's problem was the horse! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u293	For this reason, they come to question a simple clarification, a simple interpretative standard of what already exists in the IRC Code, in the Code of Commercial Societies, in the Statute of Tax Benefits. In short, I would ask you to read and now take advantage of the opinion of José Luís Saldanha Sanches on these types of mergers and on these types of operations, because you can see if this is a problem, from the point of view of the'sweet' or 'put on hammer', as you invoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u294	Remove the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u295	I would also like to tell you this: it will be very unfair for this situation, in public terms, when it comes to a resolution fund also shared by the State, that the resolution fund cannot benefit from the advantages of any company that is on the market and thus obtain tax benefits according to a situation of fiscal neutrality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u296	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u297	What is at stake here is that the operations that will take place under this merger will be neutral in the context of this resolution fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u298	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u299	And, in that circumstances, it will be completely unfair, in view of what has already occurred in other situations, in the past, and I am reminding myself of large companies that have benefited from this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u300	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u301	There is no profit for any of the parties and it would therefore be unfair to apply it to one of the parties in these situations and prevent it from being able to serve as a tax benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u302	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u303	Please conclude, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u304	I would also like to say, with regard to the resolution fund, that it is a fund imposed by the State and, in this case, the less it is, that would only lead to the possibility that this would not be applied. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u305	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u306	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, I now give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and certainly we will go to the question of this particular article, it is important to focus on the issue in the diploma we are discussing and that, I believe, it will take the support of all the benches, which does not happen by chance, because it is actually a diploma that will allow all bank customers, in which many Portuguese are included or even the generality of Portuguese, to realize, at last, what committees they pay. More: it will allow, through transparency, through information, that there is real competition in the matter of committees...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u308	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u309	...and thus lower the price of commissions that are paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u310	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u311	And this, we believe, is the right way. Secondly, it is also a diploma that extends the minimum services to many cases, allowing, for example, many elderly people to benefit from minimum services, even if they have or want to take the same account of their children or other dependents. But let us, then, to the discussion we are having here, on the subject of Article 6. Article 4 or. o -A. [[Let's argue, let's go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u312	First of all, there is one thing, with all serenity, that I would like to remember: we have already discussed the substance and subject matter of this article. The provisions that we are talking about and which deal with the taxation of the transfer of assets have already been discussed here in February. It is important to also understand the positions of the different parties on this matter, because the substance of what we are discussing has not changed. What we are changing is the clarification of the legislator's intention by assigning an interpretative character to these provisions. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Finally, and repeating a discussion of substance, which, I stress, has already been here, because the substance of these articles has been discussed here and not long ago, what we are talking about is transfers of assets and the taxation of the transfer of assets, when one credit institution moves to another a certain asset. On the specific issue of BES, BES did not decide to transfer assets to the New Bank ; there was a public authority that decided that these assets would be transferred either from BES or from the New Bank. from there it makes no sense to oblige a particular institution to pay taxes for transfers that it does not make for its decision, which does not aim to profit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u313	What about the rest of the problems in the office and the deadlines?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u314	...makes by virtue of a decision of a public authority. This is the rationality of the substance we are discussing here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u315	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again give the floor to the President of the competent Parliamentary Commission. I was brought up here with a procedural question and I wanted to tell the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for asking me the procedural questions before the day of the debate. It is also a matter of loyalty, because the Bureau has many difficulties in deciding a little about the event, especially when it is necessary to obtain diplomas and see the relationship between generality and specialty, whether or not the proposals for addition belong to the same subject. This is very difficult for the table. But it has been expressly put here, by more than one Member, a procedural issue, which I have interpreted as a lack of discussion on the whole of this point. I shall therefore once again give the floor to the President of the Commission to present the matter to me. You have the floor, Mr. Eduardo Cabrite.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u316	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out to you, with all the requests for understanding, that you have made the reference to the fact that you have been surprised by this matter and why you are asking me to speak as President of the Commission, that I do not want to confuse the debate here with the intervention I have made on behalf of my bench. It follows that the matter was transmitted yesterday, after the debate and the speciality vote, only at the end of the day, since the debate and the speciality vote on this matter ended yesterday after 19 hours, at an extraordinary meeting requested by the PSD bench, in accordance with the rules of procedure, at the end of Wednesday, invoking the urgency of the matter. The Bureau of the Commission, also in accordance with the rules of procedure, convened an extraordinary meeting yesterday, after the end of the plenary, because the debate and vote on the speciality of this matter - it is true! — had been postponed, in terms of normal functioning of the Commission, with several outstanding points pending next week's meeting. That is why, yesterday, we had an extraordinary meeting, as usual, as always happens when a party requires it, which lasted between 17 and 30 minutes and about 19 hours. It was only after that that that, in the face of procedural doubts, that there was a matter which did not have to do with the characterization of the diploma and which was never the subject of debate in general. My opinion, Madam President, is that this subject should be in an autonomous degree, and that it should have its own debate, or that it would require a change in the nature, characterization and heading of this diploma, which I would say is less recommended, because it would, in any case, require a new debate in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u317	Thank you very much, Mr Eduardo Cabrita. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would not extend the debate. I have been asked a procedural question, which has been explained by all of us, so let us think about it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a number of unanimous lawyers here and therefore this House is now endowed with powers of debate in the field. We have a proposal for an addendum, which has been called here, and the Bureau is not in a position to check whether or not this proposal for addendum belongs to the subject, but that doubt cannot remain. I therefore propose that this vote be postponed if the proposal for an addendum is not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u318	It's retreating!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u319	The Bureau has no other solution, so if the plenary understands otherwise, it will be the responsibility of the plenary, it will no longer be the Bureau. I have no other solution, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. According to the analysis I've done now, I have no science to decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u320	Very sensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u321	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a small debate is open after this Bureau's weighting. You have the floor, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the statement by the President of the Commission and the opinion which the President has conveyed, let me just make the following clear to you: firstly, we believe that we are making an amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies in its various areas, and also to this matter. That is why, Madam President, we put forward a proposal which, in our view, made sense that it was admitted by the working group — it could not have been, but it was, and no party resorted to the decision — which was taken yesterday to the plenary of the Commission and no party resorted to the decision to hold this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u323	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u324	This is the only amendment to what Mr Eduardo Cabrita said. The debate took place in the working group, the debate took place in the Commission. The parties may not have agreed with the arguments that have been put forward, this is normal in the parliamentary debate, but the debate took place and, therefore, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u325	I would ask you briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u326	... having been admitted and the debate took place, I think we are in a position to vote immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u327	Very well, Mr President, you have expressed your opinion. Mr João Oliveira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u328	Mr President, I just wanted to say the following: what Mr Duarte Pacheco has just said is not exactly true. On Wednesday, in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, the CFP Parliamentary Group called attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u329	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u330	He drew attention to the fact that a proposal had been put forward that had nothing to do with the content of the diploma, we asked that this proposal be removed from that legislative process, and the Members of the PSD and the CDS did not follow that understanding. Moreover, Madam President, this is a problem which, being a formal problem, is not an unpublished problem. It is in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration that another legislative procedure is exactly the same, and we have also called attention to it, which is that of a legislative procedure on vehicle taxes. It is IRS. Now, aside from the formal question, Madam President, and on the formal question, we are entirely in agreement with what the President has proposed, i.e. the proposal has not been withdrawn, which is appropriate for the consideration of this question, is the substantial question of the content of the proposal, of the tax promotion to a bank, which has nothing to do with banking committees and which, when voted, must be rejected by its substance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u331	Mr. João Oliveira, the Bureau does not intervene on the merit of the content of the proposal; for the Bureau, that is not what is at stake. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u332	Mr President, on the merits of the proposal, and so that there is no doubt about it, I strongly oppose it, but that is not the subject which is now being discussed....
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u333	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to confuse the discussions' plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u334	... even rejecting some of the arguments used by Mr Duarte Pacheco. It is that, contrary to what is being said by the PSD, and that yesterday was also said by the CDS, this issue is not related to the diploma that was discussed in general, and I am going to explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u335	Mr President, it may be synthetic to explain why we are not going to have time for a deeper debate unless it has practical consequences for such a proposal. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u336	The title of Bill No 826 / XII ( 4. ( a ) is « Simplification and standardization of commissioning of order deposit accounts ». The specific amendment is an amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies in Article 14 thereof. the, paragraph 22, which then has an implication in the partial or total transfer of the activity of a credit institution...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u337	I've read it, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u338	... and in the transfer of assets, as part of the implementation of resolution measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u339	I have already read, Mr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u340	Therefore, Madam President, there is no doubt as to whether it is connected or not, and we have no doubt that it is not related to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u341	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a Bureau discussion and everyone has an opportunity to argue, but we will not be late. You have the floor, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u342	Madam President, in keeping with the President's proposal alone, I would like to convey to the Bureau and the House the following: we are in the legislative process, there has been a debate in general, there has been a debate in the specialty, there have been proposals for amendments and there has been even, not normally, the advocacy of the rules in question for discussion, in the specialty, in plenary, which is what we have just done. where, Madam President, the postponement of the vote only made sense if it resulted from the discussion in the specialty the withdrawal of the proposal or even the predisposition to change it. Now, I want to say here, with all frontality and loyalty, that on the part of the majority of the PSD bench, we will not withdraw or change the proposal and, as a result, we understand that postponement should not be made. Therefore, if the President submits to the plenary the question of postponement, we will state this position, thereby forcing the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u343	All right, Mr. Luís Montenegro. Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro, you have the floor, but I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u344	I shall be very brief, Madam President. As a member of the working group, I would just like to inform the President that it is not true that the working group has accepted this proposal, rather.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u345	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose to the vote of the plenary if there is or is not...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u346	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u347	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u348	Mr President, as Coordinator of the Working Group, I felt somehow touched and wanted to say the following: this proposal came within the framework of all the proposals for amendments. All of them were public knowledge, voted and, as such, only Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro's distraction can allow him to intervene. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u349	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue, because everyone has already put forward their arguments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the plenary and ask who votes against the postponement, because if there is no unanimity, the vote will be held in accordance with the rules. [[Pause.]] Since there is no unanimity regarding the postponement of the vote, we proceed to the special vote on the proposal presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP, in the part where a Article 4 is added. o -A ( Amendment to Law No 23 -A / 2015 of 26 March) to Bill No 826 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with the votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the abstention of PSD Member Paulo Mota Pinto.]] It is as follows: Article 4 o -The Amendment to Law No 23 -A / 2015 of 26 March 2015 Article 14. the Law No 23 -A / 2015 of 26 March is replaced by the following: « Article 14. o (...) 22 — Article 145 (1) and (3) to (7). the AU of the General Regime of the Institutions of Credits and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, has a clarifying and interpretative nature of the legal regimes in force. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u350	We shall now proceed with the vote on Article 6. o ( Amendment to Law No 23 -A / 2015 of 26 March)...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u351	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u352	Mr Eduardo Cabrita, can you help me clarify this question?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u353	Madam President, I will not reopen the debate, but it is necessary to make a procedural statement. The majority proposal formally referred to Article 4. o -A, which in the final drafting of the diploma in plenary corresponds to Article 6. o. That is why two of the requirements referred to in Article 4. the -A and the PS spoke in article 6. o. But it is the same subject, and it is therefore voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u354	Mr, with this public explanation here in the public debate, I believe that we do not need to vote on Article 6. o. We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on draft law No 826 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u355	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u356	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u357	Madam President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u358	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Sá, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u359	Mr President, for the same purpose, I would like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u360	It is also registered. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u361	Madam President, in the same way, to announce that the Left Block will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-15.u362	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Before we close our work, I must remind you. Members still voting for the Economic and Social Council. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will meet next Wednesday, whose agenda will be the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 20 minutes.]]
