ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 14 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted by the President: draft resolution No 30 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The Assembly of the Republic reinforces its commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for promoting social cohesion, poverty eradication and combating inequalities ( PS ) ; draft resolutions 1511 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The lifting and supply of permanent needs of non-doctoral staff in schools ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1512 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the Statute of the College of Higher Education and Polytechnics, ensuring conditions for the completion of the doctorates and correcting injustices ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1513 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the regulation of fishing with mahogany nets ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — effective compliance with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ), 1515 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government to value public school as a pillar of the democratic regime ( CFP ), 1516 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes better accessibility on the public road and in buildings and equipment for collective use ( BE), 1517 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to promote the rights of the elderly and to protect them in respect of forms of violence, loneliness and abuse ( BE), 1518 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The reopening of the youth health service office in Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1519 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Maintenance of the Mozelos Health Unit and hiring of missing physicians ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1520 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Institution of the Portuguese Gastronomy Day ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1521 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes of the Public Higher Education ( PS ) Regulations, which are lower than 8. The Commission, 1522 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of improvements that promote greater equity and efficiency in access to Community funds by the agricultural sector ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1523 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defends family access to social security day care centres and proposes a new work regime for women's ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1524 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the procedures for granting youth hostels and the maintenance of the current National Youth Pousadas Network ( PS ), which falls to 8. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the prohibition on the creation of local authorities fees for general services and for diffuse benefit by amending Law No 53 - E / 2006 of 29 December ( BE ), 978 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Lourenço, in Asia, in the municipality of Setúbal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 979 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Simão, in Asia, in the municipality of Setúbal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 980 / XII ( 4. a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Maria da Graça, in the municipality of Setúbal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which also falls to 11. the Commission, 981 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Julian, in the municipality of Setúbal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 982 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Our Lady of the Announcement, in the Town Hall of Setúbal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 983 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Caparica, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which also falls to 11. the Commission, 984 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Almada, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 985 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Cova da Piedade in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 986 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Prague, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 987 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Feijó, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district, which falls to 11. the Commission, 988 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Cacilhas, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 989 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Laranjeiro, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 990 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of the Charneca de Caparica, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 991 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of the Suranda, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which also falls to 11. the Commission, and 992 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Trafaria, in the municipality of Almada, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Law No 343 / XII was also introduced into the Bureau ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Third Code of Criminal Procedure and approves the Statute of the Victim, transposing Directive 2012 / 29 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Framework Decision 2001 / 220 / JAI of 15 March 2001 below 1. the Commission and resolution No 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and Imamat Ismaili with a view to establishing its seat in Portugal, signed on 3 June 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also two reports and opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication to be voted on. The first report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Article 7. the Statute of Deputies, by José Lino Ramos ( CDS-PP ), an electoral circle in Lisbon, being replaced by Rui Jorge Caetano, with effects since 8 June 2015, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication refers to the continuity of the suspension of mandate required in accordance with Article 4(1) (a). the Statute of Deputies, by João Semedo ( BE ), the electoral circle of Porto, for a period not exceeding 90 days, claiming to be still recovering from his serious illness, maintaining the replacement by José Moura Soeiro, with effect from 11 June, including. The opinion is for the purpose of the temporary suspension of office and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted under Article 5 ( a ) ( 2 ). that of the Statute of Deputies, because it is considered relevant and justified the reason invoked by Mr. João Semedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We sincerely wish Mr John Semedo the improvements. Mrs. Members, today's agenda, as you all know, consists of a single point, resulting from the marking of the PS, for the assessment of deliberation project No 30 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The Assembly of the Republic reinforces its commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for promoting social cohesion, poverty eradication and combating inequalities ( PS ). I am going to give the floor to Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves to present the draft deliberations, but I would like to ask the honourable Members first. Ladies and gentlemen who are still standing and talking, please take your seats so that we can start the debate. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, you have the floor, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The priority of the agenda which the Socialist Party brings today to this House is based on the recognition of urgency in the fight against poverty growth. The social model that we have today and that we have built over the past four decades has always, above all, defined the objective of poverty reduction as a mirror of our capacity as a society as a democratic society, as a society that creates equal opportunities, as a society committed to creating the possibility of social progression, social movement, emancipation of all citizens and all citizens. Unfortunately, today, the fruit of years of austerity that has not produced the desired sense, the austerity that has aggravated the poverty situation in which many families find themselves, we are a country of the European Union in which urgency, the priority of combating poverty has become particularly evident. We are the country where the risk of exclusion has increased — to 27, 5 % — in contrast to the rest of the European Union, where it has come down. There are 640 000 children and young people who are in poverty today, almost 11 % of Portuguese are in material deprivation and 12 % are at risk of poverty, returning to data that we have not found since 2003. More than 2 million Portuguese have less than €411 per month to deal with their family expenses and 38 % of single-parent families are at risk of poverty. Between 2011 and 2013, more 450 000 people were at risk of anchored poverty and among the elderly this risk translates a number at home of 25, 5 %. Some may think it must be a myth, which must be a reality that is not real, but it is true that austerity has increased the gap between the richest and the poorest. Again, between 2009 and 2013, the income of the richest 10 % fell 8% — it is true! — but the income of the poorest 10 % fell 24 %. And today we have a value that we haven't found again since the last decade, when we look at Gini's coefficient, because we've found that clear and obvious degradation in the last decades puts us in the 34, 5 %, aggravating which has no parallel and contrary to the trend that we've been able to reverse over the past few decades. We went back to levels we had not known for decades, precisely because we abstained from pursuing public policies that made sense, that fight poverty, that created development and equality where they were most missed. It should be noted that this is not just an impact on social justice. It is clear that this is a motivation for building a more just, more supportive country, a country that is committed to eradicating poverty, but even in a perspective of rationality of our development model, of our growth model, so that there can be sustainability, poverty eradication must be seen as a priority. Once again, it is not an urban myth; once again, it is real data; again, it is looking at what the international institutions tell us; again, it is looking at what the European Union tells us that we cannot but conclude that the path we have drawn is not appropriate. in reality, when we had to reduce and when we had a Portugal 2020 target to reduce the number of Portuguese at risk of poverty by 200 000, what we find today is that there has been an increase to 210 000, creating an even greater macroeconomic imbalance and that lacks continued efforts. It is the European Commission itself that emphasises this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot view statements by those who, perhaps today, are recognized as mere myth, who said "we will only get out of this situation by impoverishing us in relative terms and absolute terms" — words of the current Prime Minister, delivered in 2011. It is not an urban myth, it is words that have been spoken, words that have drawn a wrong path in the bet of policies that have come producing a real result. And it's not an urban myth, because it's closer to a Greek myth. A Greek myth of those unsustainable austerity dosages that left the country behind. Luckily, it wasn't our case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u7	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u8	...because, fortunately, we had the opportunity to stop the dosage of austerity, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u9	Fortunately, Portugal has a Constitutional Court. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Fortunately, Portugal has had the possibility of recognizing, because it has a constitutional legal order that prevails,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... has a constitutional legal order which has, at the right time, blocked the desired austerity dosage. Therefore, we cannot look over the past few years as if everything that was drawn up, everything that is rooted in these words, and I repeat, 'we are only going to get out of this situation by impoverishing it in relative terms and absolute terms'. That is precisely what happened: we are impoverished in relative terms, we are impoverished in absolute terms. This is what we cannot continue to accept, and this certainly has to mobilize us for this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, above all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we must do today is not to recriminalize ourselves. What the Socialist Party wants to do here today is, being aware of reality, being aware of the last four years, not trying to rewrite the last four years, looking forward. And looking forward means assuming responsibilities by this House, assuming the irreplaceable role that the Assembly of the Republic should be called upon to play in this framework, because, I repeat, it is not given that the oppositions bring to this Parliament, it is given to us by the European Commission, it is given and concerns that bring us the NGOs on the ground. Recent studies of INTERAJUDA and Banco Alimentar report, particularly dramatic, on the situation of many families who have difficulty in coping with housing costs, income costs and household benefits, food costs, children's schools, health care costs for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are realities, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. They are realities and not mystifications. It's reality and it's the Portuguese day-to-day! So let's bring them to this House. We therefore return to Parliament — House of Sovereignty, House of Democracy, House of Poverty Combating Priority — to avoid this structural mortgage of our future. That is why we recall what this Parliament did well in the past when in 2008 it adopted a resolution to monitor the situation of poverty in Portugal, when in 2008 it again recommended the definition of a threshold of poverty as a fundamental operational criterion for public policy evaluation, when in 2014 it again recommended the Government to take a concerted position of debate in the European bodies and with national projection to solve the problems afflicting the Portuguese and Portuguese and to effectively eradicate the discourse that welcomes poverty as an inevitability, when it is not and when it must be fought by all the political forces represented in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what the Socialist Party wants to discuss this afternoon, and this is what the Socialist Party wants to take from here with a discussion that proposes that this Parliament strengthen its commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies to promote social cohesion, which, in this task, looks especially at those who are most vulnerable — families with children and young people in charge of it, single-parent families, the poorest workers, young people with difficulties of inclusion in the labour market, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and the large dependents, the elderly, communities in less favoured and depressed territorial contexts. These are the Portuguese and Portuguese who look at this Chamber and hope that we will be able to guarantee equal opportunities and social mobility, with public policies in the area of education, in the area of social support, in the area of value of wages, in the area of value of employment. This, yes, is the way that gives dignity to people, it is the path that gives a resistance of hope to those who have been losing it in recent times and who deserve more from us and from institutions, it is the way for which all, everyone, must be summoned and in which everyone should participate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u10	Thus, the draft deliberation No. 30 / XII ( 4 ) is presented. ( a ) by the authorship of the PS. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves was asked questions. Deputies Armenio Santos, from PSD, Jorge Machado, from PCP, Inês Teotónio Pereira, from CDS-PP, Mariana Aiveca, from the Left Block, and Rita Rato, from the PCP. I ask Mr Pedro Delgado Alves how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u11	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u12	All right, Mr. Deputies. I therefore give the floor to Mr Armenio Santos to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u13	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the Socialist Party once again presents here a debate that had already sparked and in the wake of similar initiatives both from the Left Block, or from the Portuguese Communist Party. I am sorry to say to you, Mr, but for a political force that presents itself with aspirations to come, in the future, to dispute the leadership of the Government of the country to the present majority, what we find in your intervention is that, besides words, little remains,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u15	... because in it we find no concrete proposal to solve the problems that you have listed from the rostrum. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u16	Diagnosis is easy, Mr. Deputies. Diagnostics make us every day the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left and with brilliantness. of the Socialist Party, we expected something quite different. What the honourable Member has announced from the rostrum is based on indicators that do not relate to today's times, they refer to 2013. Now, we all know that in 2013 we were at the peak of the crisis, we were at the peak of the consequences of a set of policies and measures that Portugal was obliged to execute and that hit families and businesses hard. Unemployment has reached around 18 %, as we all know, and of course people who are in a situation of unemployment are more exposed to the phenomena of poverty. What is happening today is quite different: unemployment is not 18 %, it is about 13 %; about 213,000 Portuguese are no longer part of the workforce, about 213,000 Portuguese are no longer exposed to the effects of poverty with the hardness that occurred in 2013. On the other hand, the Government has adopted policies to mitigate the effects of this crisis, these social, serious effects on people and families. We must not forget — it is the INE itself, for example, that refers to it — that the Government has strengthened the social state by 7.3%. For what? To meet the most disadvantaged, the unemployed, poverty, the poorest families. So the government was not insensitive. Regardless of the speeches that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party can repeat, the fact is that, in particular, government policies have been targeted taking into account clearly social concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u17	That's good! Social concerns? Oh, my God! Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u18	Today, therefore, the reality is quite different from that which Mr has been drawing on a data basis, I repeat, regarding 2013, and we are in 2015. I would also like to say that we cannot forget that the Government, in dialogue with the social partners, has updated the national minimum wage in significant amounts; the Government has updated the minimum social and rural pensions; the Government has finally taken some measures in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis that we all felt and shared. But, Mr President, what matters essentially here today is what we want for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u19	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u20	I will finish, Madam President. We all know exactly where we came from — I think no Portuguese wants to come back — and we all know where we are. After many sacrifices, reality today is clearly different. This is not what we naturally want, but, in consciousness, we all know that economic reality and social reality lead us to be better able to breathe, to be more hopeful about the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u21	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u22	Well, we know where we are and we know that the sacrifices we all made had some result. Now, it is important to know where we want to go and what we want to do in the future. We want the economy to finally respond in line with the consequent signs it has been giving, we want the economy to grow sustainably, because it is through the growth of the economy that many aspirations of the Portuguese can be achieved. Of course, the creation of wealth, to be distributed fairly; the creation of employment, to combat the greatest social challenge; to balance the public accounts; to respect the deficit; to fight poverty. This is our way, it is the path that has been taken, with effort, it is true, with sacrifice, it is true, with many difficulties, it is true, but we have reached a point where we cannot go back.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u23	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u24	Finally, Madam President, with these words: we know where we came from, we know where we are and we also know very well what we want. We want a more prosperous future and more well-being for all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u25	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the time spent on the questions is discounted in global time, but it is appropriate to respect the regulatory times for greater fairness in the debate. To put questions, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u26	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, in the draft resolution the PS makes a diagnosis that is not far from reality and with which we have no difficulty agreeing. However, we want to say here that the PSD and CDS, the troika, the attack pact, also signed by the PS, are responsible for the worst worsening of poverty since fascism. And that wasn't said. The draft resolution, in addition to the diagnosis, refers to the need for monitoring and obtaining information, but, honourable Member, this is not enough, it is far from enough. The PS doesn't do two fundamental things. First, take on the causes of the worsening of poverty: the attack on wages, the attack on pensions, the cut in social benefits, the attack on public services. PSD and CDS-PP have tremendous responsibilities in these cuts, but it is important to say that many of these cuts and attacks on public services started with the PS government. Secondly, the PS assumes no solution, no concrete commitment, to attack or eradicate poverty in our country. And, Mr President, we are at a time when we can assume which side we are on in this fight. I therefore ask you a number of questions. On the return of wages illegally cut by the PSD and CDS-PP and initiated by the Socialist Party when it was government, what is the commitment of the Socialist Party? On the general increase in wages, what is the concrete commitment of the Socialist Party? On the return of cuts in pensions, initiated with the Socialist Party's sustainability factor and taken further by the PSD and CDS-PP, what commitments does the Socialist Party make regarding this matter and the increase in pensions? Regarding the rights of workers, a very serious factor in our country is that poverty increases among those who work. PSD and CDS-PP attacked, as never before, who worked, but this attack was also a consequence of successive changes to the Labour Code also carried out by the PS, which attacked collective hiring, increased precariousness, facilitated layoffs. What commitments does the Socialist Party make? The CFP believes that it is urgent to improve the rights of those who work and the PS little or nothing presents in the concrete plan. It is not therefore an alternative, it is more or less the same. Mr President, I ask you not to come with the usual cry of the PEC 4 because it is important to say, in this little cry of the PEC 4 of the Socialist Party we had cuts in wages, cuts in reforms, attacks on public services, precisely the main causes that led to the worsening of poverty. Therefore, spare us this lamentable exercise of the PEC 4 choradinho. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u27	To put questions, you have the floor to Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u28	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the PS and the Mrs. Members have stressed in almost all your interventions on poverty child poverty. however, the speech they have made forgets several aspects: the legacy that the PS has left us, as it has been said, the cuts it has implemented and the effort that this government has made to complete the situation, despite financial constraints, the adjustment programme and the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u30	In addition, the PS insists on reporting 2012 and 2013 data that, as you know, were the worst years of the crisis, where we had an unemployment rate of more than 17 %, the economy falling markedly in the worst year of recession and in which GDP decreased by 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u32	Today, fortunately, it is not so, but, despite the present reality being another, we have never discouraged the fight against child poverty. We have placed child poverty as one of the focal points in around 100 new local social development agreements, where EUR 20 million will be allocated, to be implemented in the coming years. With the reform of the IRS, about 2 million taxpayers with lower incomes will be exempt from the overtax and the changes introduced allowed families to apply for the reassessment of the family allowance, and it is possible to review the situation of about 51 000 families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u34	More: unemployment benefit was increased for couples with dependent children; extra support for single-parent families was maintained, which received more than 20 % on the value of this benefit, and for numerous families; the Social Emergency Programme ( ESP ) and the Food Emergency Programme ( EEP ) was created; child poverty is one of the priorities in the measures of the European Structural Investment Funds where EUR 2000 million is allocated directly to the fight against poverty, social exclusion and unemployment — an unprecedented measure. In addition, as mentioned above, the Gini index, which since 2009 had increased, has suffered a reduction in 2012, i.e. inequalities are lower in Portugal, which shows that the adjustment has mainly affected classes with higher incomes, contrary to what has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u36	with regard to the time of the PS, we highlighted only a few specific numbers: about 400 000 children and adolescents lost the right to family allowance; 550 000 left to receive in 2010 ; more than 35 000, i.e. less 28 %, of prenatal subsidies ceased to be allocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u38	Also in 2010 the 4 were no longer paid. o is 5. the family allowance steps and ended the increase of 25 % in 1. o is 2. the steps, as well as the 13. the benefit paid in September to compensate parents for the financial charges.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u39	in the current government too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u40	I would like you to comment on the contrast between the two governments, the PS, at a time when we were not subject to an adjustment programme, and those of the current government which, despite the constraints, maintained priority in social matters and in combating poverty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u41	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u42	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I believe that this is the essential debate, i.e. the debate on the state in which the country is located after four years of governance in which the line was exactly that of impoverishment. Poverty is due to transfers of labour value to capital — money has ceased to exist only for work — either through cuts to social support, or by freezing the very low pensions of more than 1 million people in Portugal who receive a minimum pension of €274, which is frozen, of €303, which is frozen, of €323, which is frozen. I'm talking about contribution pensions that have been frozen for four years, so I'm talking about the impoverishment of the elderly. I also talk about the impoverishment of children through the cut-off of family allowance. And it's not worth the right to come to criticize who did it, because we all know who did it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u43	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u44	And the PS also knows he was guilty of cutting the family allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u45	And the Left Block didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u46	The right critical, but the right deepened the cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u47	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u48	The right criticism by saying that the Socialist Party made the condition of resources, which came down in the RSI (Social Income of Inclusion) and in the CSI ( Social Supplement for Older People), but the right deepened these cuts and more people were left without these social support. And, therefore, this history of pass-backs is not worth it. Here, what matters is what measures must be taken, what political options must be taken to resolve this situation. We will not end poverty like that, but we all know that. I would also like to open a parenthesis on data, insofar as the existing data are these and not others, and, on the basis of existing data, Portugal is in the ranking of only nine countries. Portugal has a poverty index higher than the European Union average. These are the data and blinding them is not worth it. Mr President, I would like to ask you a few very concrete questions which, in our view, contribute to the change of poverty in Portugal. On the national minimum wage, what is the Socialist Party's proposal? With regard to the increase in pensions, particularly those I have mentioned, what is the Socialist Party's proposal? On the replacement of wages, the theft of wages, how will the Socialist Party do? Another question: VAT on essential goods. Today there are thousands of people who do not have access to what are basic and human rights, including water, electricity and gas. It is urgent that these essential goods fall in the tax burden. The proposal from the Left Block aims to apply the rate of 6 % VAT in these essential goods. What, then, is the Socialist Party's proposal on this matter? Finally, do you or do you not want the Socialist Party to put back the steps of the family allowance, if it is government? It is also important for the country to know how the Socialist Party will be positioned, since the honourable Member said of the rostrum, and very well, that poverty has, indeed and sadly, a child's face. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u49	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, following the order of the questions put, began with Mr Armenio Santos. I do not want to use the term perplexity, but if this is not the debate, as Mrs Mariana Aiveca said, it is essential, if the debate on the indicators of poverty, which make our ability to grow tremendously, and if we put our finger on the wound there too, and that, as I said recently, it is a question of social justice, it is a matter of dignity, but it is also a question of logic of economic development, then it is also a logic of growth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u52	... if this debate is not essential, if we continue to think that we can have a disparity like the one we have, then what is the essential debate? And I repeat: today, the richest 10% earn 11 times more than the poorest 10%. It is this gap that has worsened and these are the data that we still have and that do not show an inflection. It is true that the richest have been penalized in the context of the crisis. For it is, but the poorest were penalized three times more, in proportion to their available incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u53	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u54	And that's what makes the gap worse, that's what creates disparity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u55	They say no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u56	They may say no, they may say that the data are not these, but once again the data we are working with are data from the European Union, from the European Commission, that when you did the analysis of the Portuguese macroeconomic scenario for the coming years, when you analyzed the 2014 numbers, when you looked at the 2020 targets, said : "Don't think so, that's impossible! Reduce by 200 000, when did they increase by 210,000? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is the European Union that alerts us that this path does not work and tells us "Investment in employment support services", "Rethink what they have done at the level of social benefits", "Rethink what they have done at the level of RSI". It's not the radical crazy you think you took care of the institutions! They are the officials of the Commission who make a thorough analysis of the impact of this government's policies on people's lives, on the life of the economy, on the growth of society that they are saying to us: « This path exacerbates the gap they are in » and, as has already been pointed out, puts us on the tail of Europe. Now, Portugal's idea appears forward, but really Portugal is behind. It is a Portugal behind the qualifications; it is a Portugal behind the reduction of poverty; it is a Portugal behind the coverage of health services; it is a Portugal behind the dignity of work; it is a Portugal behind the protection of employment; it is a Portugal behind the social mobility; it is a Portugal behind the active employment policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what you offer at the end of four years. And if we do not have the capacity as an institution as a Parliament to sit down and say: « Let us look together at what we can institutionally do», and that is just what we are proposing here... In fact, I will not have any problem in also addressing some of the issues directly raised in relation to the Socialist Party's proposals, i.e., we propose that centrality be given in the parliamentary debate on the question of poverty, that mechanisms be created that allow us to make a permanent assessment of this matter, which is indeed what has failed. We know where we came from, Mr.Armenio Santos said. You know, it is from that statement by the Prime Minister that 'we will only get out of this situation by impoverishing it in relative terms and even in absolute terms'. A more clear political message than this one does exist! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a rare moment of frankness on the part of Mr. Prime Minister and this, perhaps, you still remember, is not myth! [[The PS Inês de Medeiros Member's laughs.]] Mr. Jorge Machado, as I said, our role is a diagnostic role, but we must think about the role that the House can play in overcoming it. Indeed, taking on the causes of poverty enables us to respond to the problems that are put in place. Finally, I do not know whether the Socialist Party has been particularly clear about the topical questions which it has asked — if, out of disinterest, if a mixture of the two — is not clear about them. What is the remaining doubt as to the wage-back model? I would also like to reply to Mrs Mariana Aiveca, the model will proceed with the return within two years in a phased manner until 2017. As regards the increase in wages, the Socialist Party wants to end the freezing of progress in public service, for example, and this has already been assumed. Regarding the sustainability factor, once again, no pension cuts are intended. This is an exercise for which many of us would like the Communist Party and the Left Block to cooperate with us, to ensure the sustainability of social security, not to cut pensions, to have a balanced model, which lasts and allows for stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I cannot fail to note the Freudian element of Mr Jorge Machado, who himself had to speak of the PEC 4, knowing that he would certainly be called to responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u57	We've been discussing social security a week from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u58	The time is scarce, but to conclude, with regard to what Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira told us, I would like to point out that the Government's effort is something that has gone unnoticed to everyone because, in fact, the indicators of child poverty have increased, the indicators of poverty have increased. These fantastic measures that seem to exist only in paper and have no translation anywhere, what do they prove? Once again, the indicators of Gini's coefficient have worsened, the gap between the richest and the poorest has increased... These are the numbers to which you have fled, these are the numbers that, even when the European Commission stresses this need, they escape you, they pass you by. That is why the centrality of these data—which are 2014, are current, translate the current, real problem of the Portuguese and Portuguese economy—can not fail in this debate and cannot fail to the responsibility that has ruled over the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u59	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we hold today on poverty, social exclusion and inequality has, in itself, the greatest relevance. After all, the first objective of political action is the promotion of social cohesion, the same is to say the strengthening of the values of solidarity, justice and social equity so that, as the motto of the current government, no Portuguese remains behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u62	What is strange, however, is that a debate on such delicate themes is once again scheduled by the Socialist Party accompanied by a project of verbal deliberation in form and harmless in substance, as well as the socialist way, to synthesize. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be some explanation for this socialist passion on the subject of poverty. Seriously, I find not one, but three reasons for this obstinacy. First, the Socialist Party is genuinely concerned, as we are all at the levels of poverty, but in an exercise of bravery, it wants to show that no one lives these issues with greater force. Let us give the Socialists the courage because 'presumption and water gives each one whatever he wants' and let us concentrate on the immediate reason for the worsening of the poverty that everyone is experiencing. I'm speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the 2011 Memorandum of Understanding, a programme of austerity which many of you, then members of the government of José Socrates, have outlined, negotiated and signed. The change of millions to rescue Portugal from the pre-bankrota in which they put it, gave large parcels of sovereignty into foreign hands and in this delivery were the lives of pensioners, public servants, poor and remedied workers, families, institutions and businesses, the lives of all of us and, with little or no safeguard, also the lives of the poorest. Some examples: millions of pensioners, for whom they tear their clothes today, would have frozen pensions and also cuts in pensions over € 1500; the minimum wage would be frozen, impoverishing hundreds of thousands of workers; the private institutions of social solidarity—to which they — agents of greater relevance to the fight against poverty situations and the social exclusion of thousands of families, would not escape the fiscal fury that was in the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u64	The current government, which has little scope, has never accepted tax increases for those institutions, has already increased the minimum wage and has the serious purpose of ensuring the sustainability of social security to improve pension values and justice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the rise in poverty that we have unfortunately experienced in recent years is the direct consequence of your prosaply government, which culminated in a hard austerity programme that we have been fulfilling and paying.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u66	You are the parents and mothers of this poverty who today deplore and criticize. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I turn to a second reason: with the good purposes of the present, socialist leaders want to accommodate the bad conscience that brings them the decisions that they have made as rulers before the entry of the troika, and that they have disturbed the poorest before the entry of the troika. Poorly accommodated consciences lack these cathartic effects. They are poorly accommodated consciences by decisions that bring you pungent memories, I imagine. Yes, because who will forget that it was in 2010, many months before the catastrophe of the ransom, that the socialist government took the two most nefarious, repeated, more nefarious measures against the poorest Portuguese? First, never the family allowance, created more than 70 years ago by Dr. Salazar, had had reductions that would harm the poorest. Never! You, with you, in 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u68	You, with you, in 2010! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] A blind cut of more than one quarter of its value, excluding hundreds of thousands of families, both poor and remedied. It hurts you children's poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party? Then explain why they cut 250 million euros in family allowance in 2010. Secondly, since its creation, the social, rural and minimum pensions of the general scheme have never been frozen, despite inflation being more than 3 %. It was done by the Socialists of José Socrates, running over the essence of democratic values, reducing the purchasing power of people who can no longer buy. Do you want explanations for increasing poverty and social inequalities? Socialist Members know exactly where to find them. In terms of poverty and social inequalities, socialist leaders give letters, speak of chair! If with this second reason we have already begun to understand the reason for the insistence of the PS on these issues, because by the word the sin committed is forgiven, there remains still a third reason that is justified by the good purposes for the future, the good purposes for the future. Today’s socialist leaders, the vast majority of yesterday’s leaders, regret the past acts that led to the increase of inequalities and announce a radio program where poverty will be the public enemy number one. All good intentions, because taken into practice — I hope not! — the PS electoral programme would bring more poverty and more inequality to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u69	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u70	With good intentions is the full hell and the socialist electoral program too! Two examples for realisation. First, we all agree that employment is the best antidote to poverty. This PS raises job creation as the cause of the causes being millimeters of re-implementing posters with the promise of creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, as it did 10 years ago, but nothing says about how it will get there, as nothing said 10 years ago. More: the calculations it presents are inconsistent and futile, especially because they depend on the dynamics of the companies where employment is truly born. However, companies need confidence and stability in the laws and commitments of governments. However, the PS says that it would not make life easier for them, both through the increase in taxes and through the hardening of labour legislation. So there is no job creation, no reduction in unemployment, no increase in wealth to distribute. There is no doubt that with socialists poverty is always born of good intentions. The second example of the electoral programme: the best public instrument to prevent and prevent poverty is social security, its sustainability is vital and does not admit fantasies, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u72	Fantasy of the size of the one that António Guterres proclaimed in this House in November 2001 and I quote: « It is therefore with pride that I declare to you that this State Budget, by fulfilling the new social security law,... » — was Minister of Social Security Dr. Ferro Rodrigues — «... translates a social security reform that makes our pension system fully sustainable for the whole of the 21st century. P.S.'s applause. Six years later, other socialist fantasies repeated about the sustainability of social security until 2050. We heard what happened! And now, by 2015, what does the PS electoral program propose? In order to speed up the consumption of the present, the sustainability of social security is called into question by exchanging certain contributions for the uncertainty of alternative revenue, which would lead to the uncertainty of the payment of current, high and low pensions, and to the certainty of cuts in future pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u74	from here to 10 years, who will explain to pensioners, and especially to the poorest, that their pension is miserable because they were not prudent and should not have spent what belongs to the future in the past? Who's gonna explain this to them? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u75	What strange obstinacy, this, of the socialists to rule for the present without caring for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful with the illusions! With Antonio Guterres, the illusions were drowned in a swamp. With José Socrates, they balked in an almost bankruptcy. With António Costa, direct collaborator of the first and faithful collaborator of the second,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u78	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u79	...we fear that if he could continue those two references of socialist governance, we would be swallowed up by a new disaster, a new bankruptcy, where the poorest would inevitably be the first and the main victims. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, it does not help to combat poverty and inequality when, in the face of the accelerated growth of the economy, the increase in employment and the consistent low unemployment that Portugal has been registering month after month, the opposition parties, and especially the socialist leaders, opt for silence — a silence that gives no hope, a silence that does not generate confidence, a silence that does not recognize the effort and sacrifice that we have made to re-enter Portugal, a silence where discouragement, pessimism and negativity grow. We realize that, in the face of the recent successes of Portugal, silence is comfortable with you, Mrs. leaders of the Socialist Party. It's comfortable, but it's not fair. Please end up with this mutism, Mrs. leaders of the Socialist Party! We could suggest that they should be inspired by the words of the President of the Republic yesterday. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u80	We could suggest that, but I understand that they do not want to be inspired by the last two paragraphs of the speech of the President of the Republic. But, then, please draw on the words of your colleague Martin Schultz, President of the European Parliament, who gave his compliments to the Portuguese people and said he admired them with courage. [[Protests by PS Member Inês de Medeiros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u81	They didn't read that part!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u82	I even brought Martin Schultz's intervention, which is very interesting. The honourable Member is saying no, but I am going to read: "I admire the Portuguese who have made so many sacrifices to get out of the crisis. I admire the Portuguese." [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u83	The Portuguese, exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u84	They are fair praise, timely praise, said out there. It's not good to be quiet in here! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u85	Mr Raúl de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, signed up to ask a question. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u86	Madam President, Mr Adam Silva, I would like to start by saying that in the CDS we have seen with good eye that the PS has brought this matter to the House for discussion. Poverty is a matter that affects everyone, affects everyone and worries everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u87	To some more than others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u88	We, as Christian Democrats, believe in beginning again, believe in repentance and believe that today my guilt of the Socialist Party has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u89	That wasn't it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u90	But, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, it is not in two or three months that the reputation is recovered, there is a way to go. We remember that, while you may be sorry, you may now be concerned about poverty, it was the people who brought the Portuguese and the country to the poverty situations we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u92	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, who is not present, but who was 15 days ago in a debate with the Prime Minister, said: "We would do exactly as we did four years ago. We think exactly the same way». Mr. Deputies, you're going to have a lot of work to get your reputation back!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u93	You're lying shamelessly in Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u94	Mr. João Galamba, if I may speak, thank you. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr Adam Silva, in the understanding of the CDS — I see that I leave the Members very nervous, with this nervous little, typical of the situation, and with less respect and less civilization — and registering this desire to change life and speaking the truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u95	I just don't like lies! It's my fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u96	Mr. João Galamba, I can shut up. [[Pause.]] Madam President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u97	Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Adam Silva, we in the CDS believe that these policies against poverty, in fact, as the Government has done and as we know that the PSD has supported, should be based on a firm pact with private institutions of social solidarity. When we look at this project of the Socialist Party, we note that only in point 5, so we are insufficiently referred to, and I quote : « (...) involving the presence of government members responsible for relevant areas as well as the regular participation of non-governmental organizations, public bodies and social partners with interest and competence in combating poverty and inequality ». All of this seems too vague to us, when we really want to put something on the ground. Do you not understand that the involvement of the social economy in this project is essential and essential? Do you not understand that in this project presented by the Socialist Party it is necessary to specify the involvement, for example, of the CEF? Clearly, there is no involvement of the third sector in this project. And I recall that in the opinion of the CDS, the social sector is very important, and that is why this Government has taken many measures, of which I quote some: strengthening the cooperation protocol, including for the first time areas such as health, education, training and employment, debt settlement for social institutions; the exemption from IRC for the IPSS ; the return of 50 % of VAT to the IPSS ; the exemption from VAT between the IPSS and the development of the Solidary Sector Restructuring Fund, as they have been allocated around EUR 30 million and have reached almost 10 entities. In short, this Government has already transmitted to the IPSS, by various forms and means, about EUR 2000 million. Mr President, can you tell me if you have done this work, having called these credible interlocutors, is it not shocking that the Socialist Party project leaves them out? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u99	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u100	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u101	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u102	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u103	Madam President, I think I have been rudely quoted by Mr Raúl de Almeida for something I have not said, so I want you to have the President distribute to the CDS-PP bench until the last debate where I said I can take pride in everything I said on the eve of the 2011 elections, because I keep what I said at that time, and Mr Prime Minister cannot do so because he lied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u104	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u105	Madam President, we have the memory very much and the certainty of what we say and we were grateful that this would not only be remembered at the CDS bench, as Mr. Ferro Rodrigues suggests, but at all the benches, so that everything will be clarified. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the documentation will be distributed. You have the floor to answer, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u107	Mr President, Mr Raúl de Almeida, I am grateful for your question. First of all, I agree with the assumptions and the wording of your question. It would not be able to list as exhaustively as this set of positive actions to strengthen, encourage and support the particular institutions that this government, in the midst of this tremendous crisis, has been able to carry out. So let me put the question to a little more general policy plan, to say the following: I am not surprised at the question which you have noted, i.e. the forgetfulness of the Socialist Party in this draft deliberations on the IPSS. It is true that the Socialist Party has a difficult relationship with the institutions. It is true that institutions sometimes also have a difficult relationship with the governments of the Socialist Party — we know the history of this situation. But I truly believe that the Government has done very well, and we here in Parliament have also done well to give great importance to these issues of the social economy, from the very outset, unanimously approving the Basics of Social Economy Act, which we are regulating and we would like to continue, if possible, in the same range of consensus and unanimity. at the same time, I would like to say that this government was able to realize that, in the midst of this deep crisis, there was a dynamic, active, supportive Portuguese society with which it could be counted and that it would make the difference between despair in many families and safeguarding their economic and social situation. I sincerely believe that the government can be criticized in many ways, but it can be very commended for what it has done and this praise is well deserved, this ability to make more solidarity, more capable, more active institutions that are, in their nature, solidarity and that have been very efficient in safeguarding a country that was in a deplorable situation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u108	For an intervention by the PS, Mrs Inês de Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that there is nothing worse than when the worst of the foreseeable happens, and that is what is happening in this debate. That is, once again, the majority benches, purely and simply, did not read the PS resolution project, nor do they want to read, and only if they want to circumscribe the cassettes. The cassette scheme is already generalized, it is no longer only attributed to a single bench. So, if you will allow me, I would like to start by taking the approach of what the PS really brings here, a more international approach, even to understand what are the challenges we have not only in Portugal but also in Europe. In January 2015 the NGO Oxfam, which fights poverty, published a study demonstrating that the wealth accumulated by 1% of the world's richest will, in the short term, exceed the remaining 99%. Based on the annual report of world wealth published by Credit Suisse, and the statistics of the American magazine Forbes, which they certainly recognize, shows that the share of the wealth held by 1% of the richest had increased from 44 % in 2009 to 48 % in 2014 and would exceed 50 % in 2016. Also knowing that in 2014 20 % of the richest have almost all the remaining 52%, this means that 80 % of the world's population should be content with 5, 5 % of the wealth, and that is what we must all mobilize. in the last 30 years, the gap between rich and poor has never been so sharp. The question that is being debated here today is what is the correlation between the inequality and the growth of countries. According to an OECD study, income inequalities tend to have a negative impact on medium-term growth. To be more explicit until the outbreak of the crisis, or more specifically by 2011, in countries such as the United Kingdom, Finland and Norway, the increase in inequalities would have had a negative impact on the growth of nine points and six to seven points in the United States, Italy and Sweden, while by 2010 the most equitable distribution of income would have contributed to the growth of GDP/inhabiting in Spain, France and Ireland. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have chosen for purpose data on European countries and, of course, the American economy, which is our reference, to highlight the importance of reflection on political options, a broader and less circumstantial reflection. If we all agree that poverty is a human drama, we cannot continue to ignore the fact that more and more economists around the world have been warning: the reduction of redistributive systems, the weakening of the social state is today detrimental to growth in the world, but also, particularly in the euro area. So we ask: what kind of policies are we still defending and what kind of policies on these specific issues are we going to propose in the future? Inequality compromises the qualification of populations, limits social mobility and the development of skills, but also increases the indebtedness of families, empowers the creation of growth centres in the short term, unsustainable, and even artificial, and feeds the germs of new crises. On the other hand, effectively wagering in the fight against inequalities enables more sustainable, lasting growth, and even reducing the tax burden, which, in times of crisis, becomes the only mechanism for financing the redistributive systems. As we have been invited to quote Dr. Martin Shultz, I will quote him : « there must be a bet on the qualification of young people and avoid emigration ». This is very clear, the Socialist Party hears it and is expounded on its programme. We can no longer oppose equality to efficiency and competitiveness. We cannot continue to consider, in an acritical and obstinate manner, that social support feeds resignation and promotes stagnation. on the contrary, we must have a coordinated policy, we must have mechanisms — and the Assembly is the space where these mechanisms have to exist — in order to assess the political options. It is not a matter of limiting the governmental options that are legitimized by the vote. This is about creating a bond with those who are increasingly downgrading democratic institutions here and in other countries. I will not remember that this difference between the richest and the poorest in Portugal is set well above the OECD average ( I no longer speak of the European average ). I just remember that democratic institutions are increasingly confronted with our citizens' distrust and optimism and the confidence that so many people are now calling for, are not decreeing, are conquering, and are gaining closer to the political options of citizens' reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u110	To request clarification from Mrs Inês de Medeiros, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u111	Mrs President, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, the honourable Member has called here that the Socialist Party's draft deliberation points to the need to obtain statistical data, and this is of course important for the realization of the diagnosis. In fact, successive governments have always been very pleased not to guarantee the data necessary for this diagnosis and the current government is an example of this. Unfortunately, the former Government of the Socialist Party also fell far short of what it was legally and constitutionally obliged to do with data on social support. I would like to say that the Socialist Party's deliberation project, today under discussion, identifies children as one of the most vulnerable groups. The honourable Member has referred here to European examples and I would like to remind you that many countries guarantee the universality of family allowance and recognize it as an example and an important tool for combating child poverty. Even recently, your banker said here that the Socialist Party does not defend the universality of family allowance. We understand that it would be important for them to point out solutions and for the Socialist Party to say what is available in terms of effective measures to combat child poverty and social exclusion. It is that the application of the resource condition and the Decree-Law No. 70 / 2010, which was later aggravated by the PSD and the CDS, have caused more than 600,000 children to lose their family allowance in 2010 and with this all the support in compulsory education, that more than 110,000 people had lost their social income, and that more than half were children and young people. We understand that this path of continuity in cuts in social support cannot continue and for this there is a fundamental issue, that of the revocation of the condition of resources and the guarantee of social support above what is established in the condition of appeal. So it is very important for the Socialist Party to tell us which side it is on. Do you assume the commitment to withdrawing the condition of resources? Does it assume the commitment of the universality of family allowance and the guarantee of this support to all children, according to the incomes of their families? Do you take the commitment here to guarantee the rules to improve the protection of the unemployment allowance that successive governments have degraded? We understand that families who have lost wages, families who survive with poor wages, families who have lost social support want effective answers, which require commitment. The PCP has assumed its own. What we ask the Socialist Party is on which side is it : on the side of the revocation of the condition of resources and the guarantee of family allowance to all children or on the right, loss, impoverishment and civilizational retrogression? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u112	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u113	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I will be very quick. The Socialist Party has already presented its electoral programme. Therefore, if you have doubts about the Socialist Party's commitments you can also send 29 or 15 or 20 questions. The Socialist Party is always available to answer the questions. But will I pay you the question: does Mrs Rita Rato and the PCP bench agree or not with the strengthening of the commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for the promotion of social cohesion? Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u114	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u115	You may not arrive, Mr, but you are now answering the simple question I have asked, because it is this draft deliberation that will be voted on tomorrow and it is about him that I would like to know what the Communist Party feels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u116	Mrs Rita Rato is asking for a word for what effect? [[Pause.]] You have to invoke a regiment figure. The honourable Member made a request for clarification and Mrs Inês de Medeiros replied. [[Pause.]] As Mrs Rita Rato does not intend to use the floor now—if she wants to, she can re-subscribe herself, then she has the floor for an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party brought the debate on this draft debate on policies to eradicate poverty, social cohesion and combat inequalities. This subject is always welcome and if you come here every day it will always be welcome. It is never too much to debate these issues, especially in a country where they are pressing, there are, and there have been many years. We can even take advantage of today's debate to undo some urban myths that have taken root in Portuguese society, in political discourse these years. I will then refer to some of them. It is an urban myth that over 40 years we have had a social state with policies to eradicate poverty, especially in the last 17 years. It's an urban myth. You know why? Is poverty fighting and eradicating with social benefits?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u118	Yes, fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u119	Yes, you are, Mrs. Deputy! ...I quote, then, a news that went out in the newspaper i, on October 22nd... [[PS protests.]] Madam President, I would like to be able to continue my speech. I can't even hear myself! As I was saying, this news says: « Hunger risk — food shortage is 7, 5 % and reaches more than 460 000 Portuguese ». This news is from 2010. in the same news it can also be read: « The survey on living and income conditions, published by the INE this week, shows that the share of people who assume does not even have the capacity to pay a meal of meat, fish or vegetarian equivalent is rising consecutively since 2006 », which was when the Socialist Party returned to the Government. Further, it also reads: "However, the Government of the Socialist Party plans to reduce the deficit in public accounts with large cuts in social support to the poorest and the SNS". Therefore, the myth that I wanted to mention is this: it is not true that poverty is eradicated with social benefits, it is with active policies of economic growth and job creation. There is another myth that I would like to mention, which is really a false myth. There is one thing in which the Socialist Party has been extremely coherent: in demagogy, in the sponge that passes on the past and in persistence and persistence in the same mistakes. In fact, in 2010 that news came out in the paper and, as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said, the Socialist Party adopted two resolutions, one in March and another in July—at that time the PS had a majority in Parliament and it was a government and approved not one but two resolutions—and in the first it said: 'Determining the monitoring of the situation of poverty and a specific mission of permanent observation of the situation of poverty'. in the second resolution it stated: « Recommends the definition of a poverty threshold and evaluation of public policies for its eradication ». Well, this is exactly the same speech you are making in 2015! Do you know what happened following these resolutions to be approved here, with the majority of the Socialist Party? The PECs are out! And the same Socialist Party that approved these draft resolutions — such a myth that speech eradicates poverty — also approved the CEPs. in PEC 2010 - 2013 it can read: « (...) generalisation of the condition of resources, with the definition of stricter conditions of eligibility in access to all non-contributory social benefits ». In addition, it can also be read that measures will be adopted as a definition of maximum ceilings of expenditure with social benefits and that the reduction of expenditure is possible by strengthening the strategy of reducing social benefits payments. All of this is written in the PECs, not to mention the famous PEC IV, which you always mention and in which more than EUR 4 billion were planned for social benefits cuts. Therefore, the third myth I would like to undo is that it is not because we come here to debate things or make round speeches, talking about common places, trivialities and obvious truths with which we cannot but agree, because they are obvious truths, that the problem of poverty eradication is solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u120	And did you succeed in eradicating poverty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u121	The truth is that poverty in Portugal is structural and comes from many, many years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u122	And you have made her worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u123	At the time, we noticed, the INE said that poverty, which the Socialist Party had announced as being 17.9%, was almost 30% before social benefits. I have the news with me, so I'll have a copy distributed. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u124	You may conclude, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u125	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would say that, moving from good intentions to acts, the truth is that this government, which has caught the country in these conditions, where the numbers were already these and with such Memorandum of Understanding that has already been spoken here and that we all know, has succeeded—and it is another myth that has to be undone—not cut into the social benefits, but create specific support for monitoring families...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u127	I shall conclude, Madam President. But I would like to recall that we were recently stolen more than 1 minute ago. We were forced to keep quiet, and we couldn't even listen. [[They stole?! They stole?! What language is that?Oh, my God!]] [[They stole?! They stole?! What language is that?Oh, my God!]] [[They stole?! They stole?! What language is that?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u128	It is not possible to say'stolen'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u129	In conclusion, I would like to say that this Government has taken direct measures to support institutions of social solidarity so that they can support the most deprived families, take direct measures to support the most deprived people and families and take direct measures to support the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u130	Mr. Deputies, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u131	I will indeed conclude, Madam President. The fact is that the same gentlemen who two years ago said that we were in a recessive spiral of unemployment and economics today are supporting the results of the governance of this country to propose measures for the future based entirely on fantasies. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u132	I ask the honourable Members once again. Ladies and gentlemen who respect regiment times. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dramatic situation in which thousands and thousands of Portuguese are brought to complete misery, while a small minority of people continue to accumulate wealth, is absolutely unacceptable, socially intolerable and to all unjust and immoral titles. We can even turn around what we understand, we can push through imagination to exhaustion, but there is a fact about which we will not be able to escape: the tragedy of poverty and the deepening of social inequalities in our country are only and only the result of the options of governments, especially the current PSD/CDS government, but also the previous Government of the Socialist Party. It is true that the problem of poverty is not today, but it is also true that the problem has gained truly worrying dimensions from the policies of the PECs of the PS Government and that the current PSD/CDS Government has continued without appeal or aggravation, without pain or pity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u134	Salutable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u135	in the former PS government, the cut of half of 13. the month, the cuts in family allowances, the restriction on access to social support and cuts in wages and reforms contrasted with the financial resources that continued to be channeled to the bank and to the large economic groups. Let me give you an example. Surely we all remember when, at the end of 2010, PS, PSD and CDS did not allow large companies to pay taxes on the anticipation of dividends, which decided to distribute in 2010 not to have to pay taxes in 2011. The PS, the PSD and the CDS thus prevented the state from raising a few million euros and also allowed a real, colossal boy-expertism to the shareholders of large companies. They preferred to cut into family allowances, whose cut in 2011 was exactly 250 million euros, i.e. as much as PT and only PT stopped paying the State with this forecast of dividends. These are options and are options that we talk about when we hear the current PSD/CDS government say that there is no strike to restore wages and pensions, but it has arranged to strike down the IRC of large companies. And it was not one, it was two strikes, and the first of which, in fact, with the agreement of the PS. To have a notion of what we are talking about with this downturn, EDP, and only EDP, has ceased to deliver EUR 40 million in IRC to the State in a single year. These are options and are options that we speak of when we hear the PSD/CDS government say that there is no money for family allowances, social support or half a million unemployed people who do not have access to unemployment allowance, but the government already has money for tax forgiveness to the New Bank, a tax credit that has allowed millions and millions of euros to forgive the New Bank. A premium that this Government intends to award a premium to which it will be awarded with the New Bank, a premium with a value far greater than the value corresponding to the cut-off in the family allowances that this Government has made. Again, we talk about options and again we talk about options. During last month, while the generality of the families were accounting for extending their income by the end of the month, the PSI-20 companies disclosed the share of the profits of the companies that is delivered annually to shareholders. in all, in 2014, EUR 1, 89 billion was delivered in dividends relating to the profits of 2013. That is, more than 170 million than the amount allocated in the previous year. Between 2008 and 2014 more than EUR 13 billion was distributed into dividends. However, during this period, public administration salaries fell 26 % and those in the private sector fell 13 %. However, cuts came in wages, reforms and pensions, a brutal tax burden on those who work, cuts in social support, frightening restrictions on access to social support, dismissals in the Public Administration and facilities to fire in the private sector, precarious work and unsustainable cuts in social policies. Therefore, the options of the current government have made thousands and thousands of poor people, have brought so many other families to the most complete misery and continue to allow collective effort to be for the private benefit of a small group of people. It is true that this House cannot go beyond what is happening in the area of poverty and social inequalities in our country. The Greens will therefore vote in favour of the PS proposal, but it is also true that this is not enough. It's little, very little, it needs more, much more. It is that 38 years of the same policy is a long year, it is a lot of poverty, it is a lot of injustice and a lot of debt, which, in fact, it is imperative to renegotiate, also to fight poverty. But for this, it is necessary to build an alternative which places as priority the resolution of the economic and social problems affecting the country and the Portuguese and which faces, with courage, the limitations and conditionalities imposed by the European Union and by the money lords. We need to be freed from the budgetary Treaty in order to restore the people and problems of the country first and so that we can define our budgetary priorities without the current constraints and limitations. But for that, neither the PSD, nor the CDS, nor the PS, are available, although we are talking about an absolutely central element if we really want to fight poverty and social inequalities in our country. Otherwise, we will continue with urban myths, we will continue to hear the government saying that there is no money for social policies, but there is always money for the big economic groups and for the bank, because for these, money always appears. We therefore have the myth of the disadvantaged, the myth of the powerful, and with this government we have the myth of shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u136	Mr. David Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The characterization of the reality in question, which reflects, first and foremost, an exponential increase in poverty in Portugal, leads us to an approach that should not ignore the causes of the degradation of living conditions of more than 2, 7 million citizens, who are now in a state of poverty or extreme poverty. Poverty is not disconnected from concrete policy options. Otherwise we can see: poverty, especially child poverty, has been cut off from the family allowance to some 600,000 children since 2010? Is poverty disconnected from cuts and freezes in workers' wages, since 2010? Is poverty disconnected from the cuts in unemployment benefit to thousands of unemployed or cuts in social benefits, carried out under the condition of resources that has been in force since 2010? Poverty is cut off from job destruction, particularly in the State Public Administration and business sector, where more than 152,000 jobs have been destroyed since 2005? Is poverty disconnected from the court in retirement pensions, directly or through the sustainability factor, to whom you discounted and worked a whole life? In good rigour, in a debate that if we want to be serious and transparent, we cannot pretend that the reality we are witnessing has no cause or responsibility or that the spread of poverty is an irrevocable inevitability. Poverty results from the political options of the current government, but also from previous PS governments, which have transformed the rights of workers, pensioners, the unemployed or children into the target of their policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u139	Mrs. Members, the PS presents, with this project of deliberation, a whole set of issues that are today deep concerns of many thousands of Portuguese, but when we discuss the issues related to inequalities, social cohesion or even eradication of poverty, when we dissect the historical process and relate it to the commitments and political action necessary to solve these problems, we conclude that it is very insufficient what the PS presents today. More than monitoring and observing, action is needed to solve the problem. Here is the answer, Mrs Inês de Medeiros : it is obvious that we follow the initiative in appreciation, but when we examine the electoral commitments of the PS and the PSD / CDS coalition, we can immediately conclude that all are concerns and concerns, but measures and commitments to reverse extreme deprivation and deficiency why the Portuguese pass nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u140	Have you read p program or are you talking about color?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, obviously the serious problem that constitutes the poverty situation in Portugal, it is also obvious that its origin is the right-wing policy that makes the country subject to worse living conditions. The CFP defends an alternative to the right-wing policy executed by successive PS, PSD and CDS governments and the realization of a truly alternative policy, which allows the resolution of these problems. A policy that breaks down, by repealing the condition of resources, the sustainability factor ending cuts in family allowances, social functions and benefits; a policy that increases and enhances retirement pensions and expands the access and conditions of unemployment benefit, particularly with the creation of an extraordinary unemployment allowance, and also ensures the appropriate financing of social security. Mrs. Members, it is very clear in this debate that the policy of right and troika does not solve the problems related to increasing poverty and inequality, but it is also clear that giving strength to the three troika parties, PS, PSD and CDS, can only bring more politics to the troika against Portuguese. It is clear that in order to solve the problems of poverty and inequality, another policy and a government that implements it is needed. The real solution is in the alternative policy proposed by the CFP and the strength of the people must be able to build. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must say that it is with some surprise that I have followed this debate and given the plan in which it has developed, especially because of the theme and the importance of the theme, in that it is a problem that we should in fact be concerned about and we should all be mobilised as members of this House. This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is nothing more abating for human dignity than poverty. It is the responsibility of all of us here, representing the Portuguese, to do everything we can to promote all measures that are within our reach to reduce the poverty and social exclusion resulting from it. It is therefore our obligation to fight with all the political, economic and social instruments that we have, the assault on human dignity that we witness in every poor person, in every person without sufficient food, in every illiterate person, in every one excluded from progress, in every citizen to whom the future is stolen because they have no minimum resources. In addition to affecting the dignity of the human being, poverty is one of the main obstacles to one of the fundamental principles of democracy: freedom. There is no freedom in poverty, there is no freedom in exclusion; when you live below the poverty threshold there are no possibilities of choice, there are no options, there is no individual determination of the citizen for the full exercise of citizenship, there is only exclusion and an open path to marginalization. And with marginalization there are too many times illegality and violence, both private and public. In addition to human suffering and the violation of human rights enshrined, poverty and social exclusion still have an economic, cold and rational dimension: it is the irreparable loss of a precious human potential indispensable for growth and economic development of a cohesive and sustainable society. Humanity is now experiencing a historical turning point. As gigantic advances emerge for the well-being of populations, in health, in education, in science, in globalization, in parallel, most men and women in the world of our time continue to live below the threshold of poverty. in the European framework, the fight against this scourge is a priority concern of the European Union in the field of social policy. As we know, the Europe 2020 strategy, adopted in 2010, aims to reduce by 25 % the number of Europeans living below the poverty line and to bring more than 20 million people out of poverty. in this sense, we all know that there are several support programs, which are at the service of Portugal and that have to be maximized in this fight against the increasing inequalities that are more and more remote each day than those that have more. in the Communication entitled 'Social Investment Package for Growth and Cohesion' of February 2013, the European Commission urges Member States to give priority to social investment in citizens and provides guidelines to Member States on such simple issues as simplifying and improving the orientation of social systems, strengthening active inclusion and guaranteeing investment in human capital throughout the lives of people. It also gives special focus on investment in children in order to break the vicious cycle of inequality. This debate which the Socialist Party is presenting today is precisely going to meet these priorities. by strengthening the role of the Assembly of the Republic in the commitment to a strategy to combat poverty in Portugal, it puts this matter on a first-degree plan in view of the unequivocal seriousness of this problem. Portugal has been a victim of a double crisis, internal and external. Material deprivation and the risks of poverty affect much of our population today, especially with special hardness, the most fragile groups, such as children and the elderly. The consequences of poverty and exclusion at the level of knowledge, for example, in education and culture, are the amputation of a fundamental pillar of a building of the development of the present and future society. All these social indicators are, therefore, worrying warning screams that cannot leave us indifferent and that must mobilize us all here in the House for a systematic, methodical, responsible, long-term fight that honours the place we play here in this Chamber. Because it is structural, as has been said here by the CDS — and well — it goes through governments, through parties, through ideologies; it is precisely because it is structural that, within this deliberation, it must be given to the Assembly of the Republic the responsibility, in its sovereign role, to monitor the evolution of policies against poverty and to hold us all accountable for its results. That is why we are here. That is why the citizens elect us and that is what they expect of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block will vote in favour of this. The Left Block agrees that the commitment of this Parliament must be strengthened, to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for promotion, social cohesion and combating poverty, but we also consider that the greatest role of the Assembly of the Republic is to produce and adopt laws that underpin this fight and that is also a role. Interestingly, the proposals we have brought, which are proposals that contribute to the eradication of poverty, have been successively rejected by the majority, and sometimes also by the Socialist Party. Therefore, we do not resign from our role in all its dimension, so this draft deliberation is for this reason, but it lacks the other component, which is our responsibility and our commitment. The fact is that during these four years, the right-wing government has imploded everything that was social support, caused more poverty, put more people unprotected, and let's start with those who are poor working. For example, let's go to the young people. In terms of unemployment, the most affected population is the young population, 34, 4 %; but if we go to wages it is also the younger population that is weaker and, by the way, has the lowest wages, 60 % of the wages of an effective worker. These people are impoverished working. We also know that two million people in Portugal live with incomes below 411 euros and this is the result of policies that have been followed, aggravated in these four years. In fact, when wages were cut off, when pensions were frozen, when essential goods — transport, electricity, water, gas — were raised, when moderate rates were lifted, when health services were closed, all of this contributed to the worsening of poverty. This is the government's responsibility and do not tell us that the problem was the country's woeful state because there was no money. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that there has always been money for some and the truth is that the richest have become richer and the poorest have become poorer. Here, in fact, commitments are needed, policies are needed that effectively combat poverty. The issues of unemployment and job creation are one responsibility, as the fight against precariousness is another responsibility, ending with the theft that is to put unemployed working without wages. I am talking about employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +, which, in the end, constitute a fraud in the resources of social security, because it is social security which pays unemployment benefits or the CSR to get the boss to put all the work in his pocket. There are no contracts for these workers when we know that in most cases they occupy permanent jobs and it is an obligation for this Parliament to have a law that actually fights this problem. After that, the reduction in VAT for essential goods means making them more affordable, cheaper, particularly for the elderly population. Retirement pensions must also be increased, not just those of the 1. the escalation of the minimum pension of social security, but all the others. They're frozen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u146	You can conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u147	I conclude, Madam President. Dir-CL-me that an increase of 10 €, 15 € or 25 €, as proposed by the Left Block, is little. It is little but it will make the difference between bathing or not bathing, between buying bread or not buying bread. That is why we cannot continue, because you keep the frozen pensions for those who have worked a whole life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u148	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u149	I will finish, Madam President. This is what we want to talk about here, and it is also in view of this commitment that we have the full availability to contribute to this Parliament's taking action. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u150	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are approaching the end of the debate which, today, was promoted by the Socialist Party on policies to promote social cohesion, poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities. This is an issue which should be discussed with a high sense of responsibility, without any demagogic use and much less political-party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u153	People who face, with pain and suffering, the aggravations and deprivations caused by economic or social poverty deserve all other citizens, in particular all of us, the greatest respect and commitment to resolving the causes of their fragile situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u155	The problem of poverty is not today, nor is it only from Portugal. It is, first, a very old and world-wide phenomenon, which must call on us to build the best solutions and the common good. Breaking the cycle of poverty and preventing many citizens from falling into this situation is a moral, social and institutional requirement. Pope Francis said that, and I quote, "Without a solution to the problems of the poor, we will not solve the problems of the world."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u156	And, then, go cut off the pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest data on the poverty situation in Portugal relate to the year 2013...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u158	The Caritas and the European Commission are 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u159	...and it is at least politically incorrect not to fit this year into the times that lived before and after.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u160	They inspired themselves in the Encyclical to cut 600 million euros in pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u161	Madam President, in democracy, listening is a virtue! I'll go on. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u162	You're right, Mrs. Member. I'm asking for some silence in the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u163	Portugal and the Portuguese have faced times of enormous difficulties, but which have gradually surpassed, with many sacrifices, work and determination. The situation in which Portugal was in 2011 is totally different from what it is currently living. In 2011 Portugal had a budgetary deficit of more than 11 % of GDP...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u164	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u165	... and could no longer obtain funding from international markets to honour their most basic commitments, such as wages and pensions. The irony of irony: the party that today expresses, and very well, its concern with the fight against poverty and inequality is the same as, in 2011, it dragged the country and the Portuguese into a real social emergency situation, thus placing many, but even many Portuguese in unemployment and poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u166	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u167	the Government and this majority are responsible for removing the country from the dramatic situation in which it was, fulfilling the difficult measures imposed by the Memorandum of Understanding, and for placing the country on the path of development, growth and job creation, always with the concern of protecting those who had the least, in difficult times we had to face.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this regard, the Government has taken measures that have helped to combat the inevitable increase in poverty, I repeat, the inevitable increase in poverty. It created the Social Emergency Programme, with a total of four State budgets investing EUR 980 million in the fight against poverty. It has strengthened the response capacity of the social state, which the INE itself has exalted. In 2015, we have about 440 million euros in social action rather than in 2011. The unemployment allowance for married couples with dependent children increased by 10 %. In partnership with social economy entities, it promoted a wide range of measures aimed at supporting families, children, young people and the elderly, in particular the most disadvantaged. It increased the minimum social and rural pensions, which the PS frozen, and with this measure contributed significantly to reducing the risk of poverty among the elderly. It is exempt from the moderate rates of about 5 million Portuguese. It has promoted a significant reduction in the price of medicines. It celebrated 100 new local contracts for social development, with the aim of combating poverty, in particular child poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u170	Mrs. Deputy, you've cut the salaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u171	It increased the number and mean value of scholarships in higher education. It expanded participation in books and school materials. It has managed to significantly reduce, even in difficult times, the drop-out of young people, an extremely important measure to reduce child poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u173	Nevertheless, the adjustment programme, with the social partners and in social dialogue, increased the national minimum wage. Unemployment, as we all know, is the main cause of poverty. In January 2013 the unemployment rate reached 17, 5 %, but has come down significantly and at present is at 13 % minus 4, 5 %. I think it is something that we should all recognize, because there were many, but many, men and women, many families who saw their income increased and, many of them, with endless employment contracts. It is a value which, although positive in the face of previous ones, is still very worrying and requires of us all a huge commitment for the economy to grow and manage jobs. But without false demagogy, the truth is that poverty can only be eradicated if we can grow the economy in a sustained way, creating jobs with quality. And this was achieved over four years! We have closed the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme without the need for a second rescue or a precautionary programme. The budget deficit will last this year, for the first time, below 3 %; when we arrived at the government it was 11 %. The country is currently financing relatively low interest rates on international markets. for the second consecutive year, Portugal has resumed growth, which will accelerate in the coming years. The available income of families has increased. Exports continue to grow. The consumer and business confidence index continues to increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u175	Portugal has regained credibility and today we have hope for the future. I know that all of this that I have quoted bothers many Members and many of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this is the truth, and the Portuguese already recognize it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that we have difficult times ahead, we know that the country requires a government that knows how to deal with them, who knows how to continue to correct the country's path, to relaunch the economy and to promote employment growth. The Portuguese know that the Government and this majority have always preserved the most fragile when they had to ask the Portuguese for sacrifices. Only through work does human beings take place, recovers their autonomy and affirms their full freedom. The fight against poverty is made through a specific programme, which the Government is aware that it should be guarded, developed and implemented, with all — social partners, public and private entities, all Portuguese — because combating poverty is a requirement. Today, more than ever, overcome the great difficulties, we need to have hope in the future and in the capacity of the Portuguese to involve themselves in the construction of a more just, less unequal society that has as its main objective not to leave any Portuguese behind. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u176	Mr Vieira da Silva also spoke for an intervention to conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that the PS brought here was not justified only for reasons of urgency, was also justified, because it has been requested by civil society organisations, so that the Assembly of the Republic assumes, more clearly and effectively, its indispensable role in combating poverty and inequality and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u179	But it is also an urgent debate because nothing can reduce the impact of the reality that there are 1 million poorer Portuguese people between 2009 and 2013 who saw their income fall by 25%. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, no indication of our society allows us to state that this situation,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that 1 million poorer Portuguese, who have seen their income fall into a room, since 2009, has invested. That is why the House has such an important role as that which we, in our deliberations, have come here to propose. And it is not just a matter of considering the centrality of combating poverty, it is also a question of whether the Assembly agrees to identify those who are the weakest and who deserve particular attention in the policies of combating poverty: young people, children, the elderly isolated, dependent people, the poor workers. This is our proposal: the identification of the main targets of our attention and the strengthening of the Assembly of the Republic, creating conditions for it to play its role in this fight, which is a decisive fight for the future of Portugal. All parties have their solutions and answers to the problems of poverty or inequality and the Portuguese will be able to choose the different solutions. But the country also has a history and a tradition, a past that cannot forget or devalue. In 1995 the rate of poverty for the elderly was 38 %, Mrs and Mrs. Members; in 2005 it was 26 %. But the rate of poverty of the elderly fell to 14%, and this was a work of the social state, was a work of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was no waste, it was no excessive expenditure, it was not spending above the possibilities, it was giving the necessary answer for a drama that existed in Portugal! That is the tradition, that is the history, that is the capital of trust in ourselves that the Assembly is the greatest repository, is the greatest defender. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all have our proposals, we will all have our strategies, we will all have whom we will accuse, but whoever refuses to vote favourably this will be saying no to the sense of urgency of Portuguese society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u181	... will be responding negatively to the appeal that society makes to us, saying that it does not really assume the role of the Assembly as a house of the people, as a house of democracy, as a house of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-11.u182	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this concludes our debate today, which consisted in the assessment of the draft deliberation No 30 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) by marking the Socialist Party. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, Friday, 12, for 10 hours, with the following agenda: Point 1 - Current debate, by marking the Left Block, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the privatisation of the TAP. Point 2 - Joint debate on petition No 132 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by Tiago Rafael Bessa Landreiras and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to set up a national age-protection committee and to launch a awareness-raising campaign to alert the abandonment and ill-treatment of many elderly victims, and draft resolution No 1517 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to promote the rights of the elderly and to protect them in respect of forms of violence, loneliness and abuse(BE). Point 3 - Joint debate on petition No 410 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by Carina Cristina Codeço Brandão and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for legislation to allow better conditions of mobility and accessibility on the public road in Lisbon, in particular for persons with reduced or conditional mobility, and for draft resolution No 1516 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes better accessibility on public roads and in buildings and equipment for collective use ( BE ). Point 4 - Joint assessment of petition No 446 / XII ( 4. a ) — Submitted by Maria João Figueira Belchior and others, requesting to the Assembly of the Republic the immediate suspension of the collection of the municipal civil protection fee, and, in general, of Bill No 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the prohibition on the creation of local authorities'fees for general services and for public benefit by amending Law No 53 - E / 2006 of 29 December ( BE ). Point 5 - Joint assessment of petition No 458 / XII ( 4. a ) — Submitted by the Student Movement « Just on the street by the Public School » against the cuts in education registered in the State Budget for 2015, which means the destruction of the public school, and of draft resolution No 1515 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government to value public school as a pillar of the democratic regime ( CFP ). Point 6 - Joint assessment of petition No 469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Maia High School, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend the ratios of educational action assistants in schools, in general, of Bill No. 305 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the indefinite recruitment of non-teachers in public schools ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolution No 1511 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The lifting and supply of permanent needs of non-doctoral staff in schools ( BE ). Point 7 - Debate of petition No 466 / XII ( 4. (a) — Submitted by Rui Martins and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the reopening of the Commission of Inquiry on the "Square Case" — Open Letter on the archiving of submarine proceedings. The vote will also take place at the scheduled time. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 15 minutes.]]
