ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. Let us begin our work with the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft law No 52 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Bans banks unilaterally change interest rates and other contractual conditions ( CFP ), which fell to 5. the Commission and draft resolutions 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the barrier and island islands of Ria Formosa and on the Ancão Peninsula and the suspension of the demolition of dwellings ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission. It was also withdrawn by its proposer, Mr André Silva, from the NAP, draft law No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to tax benefits by environmental associations and zoophiles by amending Law No 16 / 2001 of 22 June ( NAP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is the current debate required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on school topics and educational policies. At the opening of the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u4	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. State Secretaries, Ex. Members: The CDS requested the scheduling of a current debate on educational policies, regarding the recent publication of school results rankings for the academic year 2014 / 2015. I would very much like to place this intervention in what is central, which is the mission of the school, its first reason to be: to teach and to learn. And one has necessarily to accompany the other. Because if, in a school, teaching is more central than learning, then priorities will be unbalanced, students will be relegated to a secondary plan, their future will be dependent on the chance of their birth and the state will be failing to fulfil their responsibility, by all of us shared, compromising the future of the country. Therefore, the people to whom we entrust the school — directors, teachers and other educational communities — are essential, and I think that is consensual. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u5	for the same reason, public education policies are essential, where clearly and assumingly we have different views, models and proposals between the various parties, in particular — as we already see with regard to the replacement of the measurement tests and examinations of 9. the year—between the parties on the left front. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u6	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then speak of the rankings, recently published and analyzed in the press, instrumental to public policies as a source of information on the public education network and both more relevant and worked in a serious and consistent manner. from the analysis of 2015 results, it seems to us politically relevant to highlight four facts. Fact 1: the overall improvement of results in national tests. More than 80% of schools achieved a positive score in secondary school exams—the number of schools in these circumstances more than doubled compared to 2013. no 9. the year, the trend is similar, almost doubling the number of schools with a positive average for the same year. In other words, schools—in particular the state, which accounts for 80 % of the system—have overall been making progress. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u7	The catastrophic view of the end of public school does not resist these facts. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Fact 2 : the good results in the tests of 4. year. in the newly abolished 4 year tests, the average rose from 2, 81 % in 2011 to 3, 25 % in 2015. of the 4173 schools in which evidence was performed, most of them state, 1875 rose the results every year. Between 2014 and 2015, the number of schools that improved was 2807. In other words, students and schools had come to realize that these evidence resulted in an improvement in the expected learnings at the end of the cycle, a final classification weighted by 70 % of the internal evaluation. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Fact 3: a comparison with what is comparable. The former Executive has made available for this year a new set of information to evaluate the performance of schools, weighing the results of students either by their school progression or by context variables, such as the number of students with school social action or the schooling of parents. So the limited and potentially unjust linear series have ended, and today we can compare what is comparable by using « expected value of context » rankings, « indicators of school success promotion », or « indicators of progression ». Also on the Infoescolas portal, transparent access is allowed to parents, educators and students to this type of calibrated information, at all times. I mean, the rankings are no longer blind. Listening to and reading some discussions on the subject, I wonder if some do not prefer to continue to be. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Fact 4: The performance of schools with an association contract is above average. contrary to what the leftmost parties say, spending with schools with association contracts has decreased. These 79 schools — less than 6 in 2011 — received less EUR 90 million in 2014 than in 2011, according to figures taken from the recent Court of Auditors report. Let us therefore leave prejudice and go to the evidence of the results: these schools serve the same population of state schools and would be expected to have a similar pattern of results. these schools, which represent 6 % to 8 % of basic and secondary education, 54 % are at the top 25 of the 9 results. the year and 55 % at the top 25 of the 12 results. year. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In other words, schools with an association contract have a high efficiency and, in comparison, a much higher return on public investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will always be possible and easy to read the rankings with the ideological call of the private publicversus. Or read with a quick judgment, dividing the schools between the ones that are good and the schools with difficulties. If we choose the first one, we will look at the top, justifying, recriminating, paralyzing before the fairy of the advantage of private schools. If we choose the second one, how do we integrate the results from the end of the table? Is it peacefully acceptable what is happening in schools whose average exams are repeatedly below 2? Do we have any doubts about this? Or do we still prefer not to know?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u10	Are we so sure, perhaps ideologically, that we choose to ignore the instruments that show us the results? Is it not our obligation to know more to propose public policies that help schools and parents to do better for students? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the people say that «the worst blind is what they do not want to see». Without external evaluation instruments, even if they can be improved, we will be subject to casuistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u12	I'll finish. We will not be able to recognize the symptoms of any disease, we will not know vaccines, medicines, or examples. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, paraphrasing Montesquieu, especially for those who argue that being happy is not having tests, the risk is that we will become doctors who kill the sick to play. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u13	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Education has the floor, which I take advantage of to greet, as Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us start by talking about rankings so that we can start in the illusions and end the discussion with realism. The Ministry of Education doesn't make any rankings. As we know, the rankings are produced by social communication from data provided by the Ministry of Education, produced for many purposes, for the entire educational community, so that there is, in fact, information. Only those who don't know anything about education or who have become accustomed to making educational policies based on unscientificly substantiated opinions is that they may think that solid conclusions can be drawn from a comparison between samples that are not comparable,... [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]] ... from complete public school data and partial data from private institutions and, above all, ignoring that a complete evaluation of the performance of schools goes through the assessment of variables much more complex than a simplistic look on the result of one or two of the tests. Fortunately, we have procedures for external evaluation of schools that allow us to go much further than the rankings, which are simple, and this evaluation enables interventions adapted to local realities. Rankings are just a given, they're not the truth about schools. It is a fact to be taken into account, but it has been appropriate for the construction of an opinion. They have allowed us to build the illusion—and, Mrs Deputy, I will use a word that is expensive to you—absolutely facilitating that public school has less success than private education. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Facilitator is also your reading of rankings, finding that measures in public education or educational policy have an impact on the year immediately following. It should not be claimed that the public school has at least 40 years of good results and merit based on the requirement, which is to lead to success and ensure social mobility to many people to whom some institutions close the doors, to many of those for whom the response of recent years has been to reprobate, retain or withdraw from the way,... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ... currently forwarding to vocational courses, giving up young people and, above all, giving up the work of educators. Let's talk about ease and don't be afraid of words. The argument of facilitation, which has both populated the recent opinions, is supported by two premises: first, exams are guarantee or even synonymous with quality; second, demanding teaching is what most excludes or retains in the old logic of those who say: « He is an excellent teacher, does not give notes above 14 ». As if the note said something about the quality of teaching! Open... There are serious misconceptions here and, if recent policies were not to be facilitated, we would not be having this discussion. First, there is no investigation supporting the conclusion that examinations are a quality mirror. If the previous government had no problem with humanity and social sciences, it would certainly have had the opportunity to study education sciences, sociology of education or the history of education. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] But it was preferred to make educational policy based on opinions. We don't follow that path. We want to dialogue with those who know, listen to the educational community, including the teachers, professionals in whom we trust and whose work and power of decision and intervention we know how to value. And so we will make decisions based on existing studies and in the opinion of those who know. More: by saying that we want to listen to the educational community, we are saying that we listen to professional and scientific associations that have been banned from the debate on education, because the reason lived only in a cabinet. It is in this context of action that we are in dialogue with various partners and actors on the stage of education. Education needs stability, but stability is based on informed consensus and not on vague or easy opinions. This consensus will only be achieved if we have, in the first instance, a firm dialogue with those who believe that the school has as its goal better learning and more success. With regard to the question of the assessment examinations and the final decision on which the evidence to be carried out, according to what is included in the Government Programme, which, as Mr Prime Minister pointed out yesterday, it is important to read, "We are reviewing the examinations in the first years of schooling, a practice systematically criticized by relevant international organizations working in the field of education, deepening their links with internal evaluation". The Government programme therefore provides for a serious reflection on this subject and not the simple procedure to ask whether or not that evidence is maintained. in this sense, we are working on an evaluation and measurement model based on very clear assumptions. First: a definition of the purposes of the evidence, which, in our view, should have as its ultimate objective the improvement of learning, the monitoring of curriculum development and clear benefits for an early intervention in the course of each student that is the subject of measurement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u15	What about the assessment of knowledge? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u16	Second: the return of descriptive and detailed results to school, teachers, family and students for planning that should be differentiated and timely.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. Third: obtaining data about the entire curriculum, contrary to the curriculum functioning of recent years and valuing all disciplinary areas, including arts, expressions and humanity. In this regard, schools and families will have the decision and knowledge shortly, a decision that results from weighting, listening to experts, parents, teachers, school directors and groups to not only have the easy way in which it was assumed that it was enough to pass on and to reprove others to ensure the improvement of the school. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u19	For an intervention, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I want to begin by congratulating the CDS-PP on the scheduling of this current debate. I do not only do it out of mere courtesy or as an introduction of a parliamentary intervention, I do it mainly because of the relevance of the topic, education, an ever-priority of the PSD, a deep and unwavering conviction that it is it that determines our collective future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u21	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u22	I also wanted to congratulate the CDS for another reason: the possibility of finally listening to the Minister of Education. But it won't be today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister of Education has been silent for too long on 5 October, while the Communist parties that support him will protect his Ministry from this Parliament, as if the Government Programme did not exist, as if instability were not being created in schools, basically as if the Minister did not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u24	Let us be clear: our concern is not with personal performance or with the irrelevance to which Mr Minister is being submitted — VV. Ex.as are all in the same government and, as Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa is tired of saying no, there is no popular saying that help you this time—... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... our concern is with the urgency of the radical trade union agenda to which the government is subject and with the consequences it represents for the quality and the demands of our education system. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The question has already been asked and can't stop echoing in this House : after all, who is in charge? Mr. Secretary of State, I am sure that you will understand our concern, just as many socialists will understand our concern and as many moderate trade unionists will understand our concern. It is a concern that is intensifying, because in the previous government we had to deal with your debts. We cannot help but remember that in 2011 the Socialist Party led the country to the pre-banking. No money to pay wages and pensions, called the troika. What defense of public school was that? What future were they preparing for the students? What stability were the teachers providing? What security were they transmitting to their parents? VV. They put public school at risk and, in a sad irony, they baptized this moment like that of the School Park Festival, this synthesis of disrespect for taxpayers' money and non-assuming of responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It was in a financial, economic and social emergency that the previous government took education as a priority. Its guiding principle was very clear and was present in all the decisions that were made: putting above all the needs of the students. Without revolutions, without radicalism, without throwing money on the problems, the government led by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho defended the public school and proved that, even in times of great financial demand, it is possible to develop a demanding educational policy and improve its indicators. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] I am referring now to specific cases: the early school dropout rate was reduced from 28, 3 % in 2010 to 17, 4 % in 2014, and it is my conviction that the 2015 figures will be even better ; the pre-school rate of children rose from 92, 7 % in 2010 to 97, 2 % in 2013. Mr. Secretary of State for Education, on 4 October the Portuguese assessed the performance of the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u25	And they plummeted him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u26	... and of the oppositions, they appreciated the different programs and, you know, gave the victory to the Portugal coalition to the Front. The same coalition that developed the final test program in the 4. o, 6. it's 9. the years, the PAAC (test of assessment of knowledge and skills), vocational education. Take a good look, VV. Ex! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Yes, it is true that your Programme provided for the re-evaluation of the examinations in the first years of schooling, but those of the 4 were already eliminated. the year, Mr. Secretary of State. We would like to hear about this matter and the examinations of the 6. it's 9. years. It is that, what you know and despite what you said yesterday here, Mr. Prime Minister, communist parties and Professor Mário Nogueira do not conform, and we will already realize who is responsible for education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u27	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u28	But we also need to hear what you have to say about the CAPC, since in the coming years we will be attending a rejuvenation of the teaching body and the Ministry of Education has an obligation to ensure quality and merit criteria in its selection, professionalization and recruitment. Does the Secretary of State agree or not with the evidence created by former director Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u30	We need to hear what you have to say about vocational education, which has recorded a remarkable acceptance by schools. Does the Secretary of State agree or disagree? We need to see if you want to maintain the commitment to transparency and information with the Infoescolas portal. Does the Secretary of State maintain this commitment or not? Mr. Secretary of State, it is important that it be very clear, although you have already exhausted your regiment time. We are therefore waiting for Mr Minister. I would also like to ask the following: what interests are ahead of the students or their performance to a radical agenda so that Dr. António Costa can be Prime Minister? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister will eventually be waiting for him to be the first Minister of Education to whom Mário Nogueira does not ask for his resignation. Deceive yourself! Disobedience and he will request your resignation at the first opportunity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u31	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is impressive that what worries and shames the country is the pride of the right. It's impressive! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Only in this way could they be proud of what the ranking shows. Let's analyze what the ranking shows the naked eye. Fact 1: Ranking shows that, at the top 25, 24 schools are private. That is, the ranking shows that the children of wealthy families have access to better education conditions than the children of poor families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u34	Fact 2: The ranking shows that the social context of schools does not count for the ranking, because, if it did, it was not first the College of Our Lady of the Rosary and lastly the Basic School of the Miradouro de Alhazina, in Monte de Caparica. We could do an exercise: take all students from the Monte de Caparica school and place them at the College of Our Lady of Rosary or take all students from the College of Our Lady of Rosary and place them at the school of Monte de Caparica. You know what the difference is? Private schools select students, choose students they want or don't want to have. This ranking shows us that it is possible to do this exercise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u36	... because there are two private schools conducted and managed by Jesuits, the S. João de Brito College and the College of Immaculate Conception. The College of the Immaculate Conception has association contracts in which it has to accept the students that the State puts there and the College S. João de Brito selects the students. Conclusion: St. John of Brito College is at the top and the College of the Immaculate Conception is down there. And they're managed by them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u38	Fact 3: contrary to what you wanted, artistic education promotes learning and that is why the first public schools of the ranking are artistic education, schools, those that have tried to destroy. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Let's now analyze what the ranking just shows who you want to see. First of all, it's in the ranking and they don't want to see: in three years, they cut EUR 1333 million in public education and it was EUR 1600 million in private education, competing with public education. They don't want to see this data, but it's in the ranking! Second fact that you are on the ranking and that you do not want to see: the class of 7. -A of the Sey High School, in Guarda, has 26 students and four have special educational needs. in Spanish discipline, there are 32 students in one class and four have special educational needs. There's no such thing in private! These data are on the ranking and they don't want to see them! Third fact that it is in the ranking and that they do not want to see: in private education, teachers are allowed to accompany students along the school course; in public education, teachers become travelling cashiers, so much rotation they have in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u40	Fourth fact that it is in the ranking and that they do not want to see: in private education, no one has classes in containers; in public education, there are classes in containers. Fifth fact that is on the ranking and that they do not want to see: in private education, support teachers are there when students need them; in public education, support teachers are there as a prize for schools that have the best results, i.e. for those who need them the least.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u42	Of course, there is a problem here: in private education, only those whom they want and in public education enter everyone, regardless of what they can pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u44	If this ranking applies to something is to tell us that it is not useful to evaluate schools. Let's now analyze what's hidden in the ranking. It is hidden that teachers only start teaching Study of the Middle after exams of Portuguese and Mathematics are done and it is hidden that the President of the Institute of Educational Assessment has already admitted that the criteria were corrected because the results of the exams were not right against the expectations of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u45	You must say that to the teachers! Teachers must be fond of listening!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u46	If this ranking serves something—and it's not to evaluate schools! — to show the causes of another ranking, which puts us at the top 5 of Europe's social inequalities. That's the other ranking that this ranking shows and that's at the origin of this one we're analyzing. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] You're doing a great show, but the king's going naked! This ranking shows that you helped destroy the public school. That's what this ranking shows! It's free advertising that you want to do to private colleges. But at the same time that they are making free advertising to private schools, there were students in the Barreiro without classes for one or two weeks, because the ceiling of the school fell. Therefore, it is not possible to compare what is not comparable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u48	Of course it is easier to stay at the top of the ranking being a student of the S. João de Brito College than a student of the Baixa da Banheira school. The problem is that students from the Baixa da Banheira school have as much right to education as students from the S. João de Brito College, who pay 500 € to be there. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is where our difference is. You think the school should not be the same for everyone, that there should be a first school and a second school, and we think that public schools should be at the top of the ranking. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u50	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP considers that school rankings do not evaluate schools, because, ab initio, compare the incomparable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u52	That is, they compare public school students with private school students; interior regions with large coastal cities; disadvantaged social media students with students from more favoured social layers; requalified schools and with all equipment with schools deprived of all comfort, sometimes in high state of degradation and almost without equipment; families that support children with others who do not have the least possibility of doing; schools with adequate human resources and most with large human resources deficiency. This is only to cite some of the many inequalities, but already sufficient to account for the injustice of this instrument which no longer aims at schools than would be, in an unequal game in which public school always loses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u54	From this series, which mixes the mass school with the elite school, there is a fictitious reality in which private education is promoted, with the intention of justifying its privatization, while extending the distance, inequality between children and young people who attend public school, who want quality, universal, inclusive and for everyone. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u55	Clearly, it is not the rankings that create inequality. These are perverse tools that at nothing help the public school, nor the improvement of its quality. For the PCP they only have meaning schools where they care about the difference between everyone and each one, where pedagogical conditions are created for effective and balanced learning, oriented towards the integral formation of the individual, with human and material resources in sufficient and adequate quantity, and correct and sufficiently funded. The path taken by the PSD/CDS government, in terms of educational policies, has led to the degradation of public school by reducing hourly credits for disciplines and support for students with greater difficulty, increasing the number of students per class and even the creation of exams, as these have given priority to some skills to the detriment of others at higher level, resulting in the deepening of the gap between public school students and private school students. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u56	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Children and young people, families, professionals, the country deserves to be spared from demagogy and populism. Misuseful simplifications, when we talk about education, are particularly serious and condemnable forms of demagogy. To speak of exam rankings without understanding that external evaluations are neither intrinsically good nor intrinsically bad, without understanding that their value and usefulness depend on their articulation with internal evaluations and with the curriculum, doing exams, everything and any exam, panacea, the magic solution for all educational needs in the country is purely and simply a mystification. Using rankings in this direction will serve political propaganda or perhaps even marketing some agents, but it does not serve education. To ignite with this panacea has nothing to do with the permanent and continuous need to improve student learning and improve the educational process. Rankings have their usefulness since we look at them seriously and that implies being demanding with their construction and methodology. For example, it would be good if there were no schools exempt from transmitting crucial information to read the data. Why are some schools exempt from providing socio-economic information about their students? Why are schools and other private schools exempt from informing the educational levels of parents and the proportion of students benefiting from school social action, information that public schools are required to provide? It is that this information would be important to understand the impact in the context of the results, but certainly by facilitating some political agents never remember this problem. Mrs. Members, facilitation is what the PSD/CDS government has done with the artistic schools, delaying the necessary procedures for funding due to incompetence and dislocation, placing schools, teachers and students in the distressing situations that are now being experienced throughout the country, in artistic schools and also in vocational schools, because your transitional government has not even been able to be a government of management and has in a few weeks aggravated the political and management mistakes of your four-year government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... perhaps forgetting the Court of Auditors after they have forgotten the Constitutional Court. The one who denied education was the right, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Facilitation was the policy of education of the previous government, with regrettable results at the school rate, which returned to pre-school, which returned to basic and even returned to 1. the cycle of basic education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u59	... decreases below 100 %, for the first time in many years, with lamentable results in retention and withdrawal rates, which are increasing, and in the completion rates that are falling. The one who denied education was the right, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only to read the last report of the National Education Council where all this is written. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in education, as in everything that is structuring for the future of the country, time matters, stability counts and therefore we need to build extended convergences in this area. For this we need to illuminate our debates with knowledge and not with populism, with study, with research and with consultation and not with demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u61	Professor David Justino, President of the National Education Council, in the introduction to the 2014 State Education Report, presented this week in the Education and Science Commission, leaves a criticism, perhaps one laments, when he writes: « There is even a culture of retention. The acceptance of the principle of selectivity is deeply permeated in some sectors of Portuguese society. It warns: « We will only overcome this obstacle with a change of culture that will only occur in the medium and long term ». Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, who have ended the coalition but who are still linked in this atavism of the culture of selectivity, are time to start this change of culture because they are being delayed and we do not want them to be held back in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State for Education, the Socialist Party welcomes the vision that brought us here. The school needs stability, stability based on informed consensus and not vague opinions. That's where we're going. That's where we're going to build. That's where we want to build! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u62	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is curious that the CDS brings this debate here today, given that yesterday, in the Committee on Education and Science, the PCP presented its draft law on exams and that the CDS did not even sign up to use the word and today, this subject is considered a topic for a current debate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no rankings or comparisons that can be fair based on a system that is not himself fair. As long as there are injustices that give rise to asymmetries, whether regional, social or economic, it is not fair to measure by the same bottleneck what is different. In fact, it is also curious that they are the PSD and the CDS, who always say to fight all the kind of equalityism, especially when it comes to access to rights, are those who now want to force egalitarianism in what it is to compare everything by the same bottle, i.e., schools in different situations and students in different situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u65	For the PCP it is very clear: while there is only one student in our country who does not have money to buy books and another who even has money to pay explanations, it is not appropriate to subject to the same evaluation conditions in the same period of time, with the same questions, one and the other. As long as there is a school in our country that has not roofed, or that rains in there, or that students go cold, or that teachers are not placed on time, or that funding is not available on time, or that teachers are hired year after year, and under rotating regime, and other schools with everything, and where students have money to buy everything, then it is also not right to make the comparison, anyway, nor is it even fair that this comparison can be made. Only those who defend education as a business can defend the top sales, which is the school ranking,... [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] ... to benefit not the private school but the owners of private schools, the owners of some private schools, especially the large schools that can select their students. than schools need, and because the theme of the debate is also educational policy, it is more teachers, more employees, less precarious, more smooth and more transparent in the contract, from the end of the school contract. what schools need, in particular artistic education, is that money and funding are brought to them because of the evils of the previous government, making these schools unable to pay wages for months and some of them on the verge of ending activities because they do not have the necessary funding.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u68	what schools need is not of classificative paranoia, but of a policy that actually promotes equality. what schools need is not a ranking that compares and promotes competitiveness, but a policy that makes all schools in our country take the first place. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u69	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was very concerned about the intervention of the Secretary of State, because, if this current debate needed to be held, the intervention confirmed our great concerns, from the outset, we do not realize how uncomfortable the rankings cause in the government. Mr. Secretary of State says that rankings are not relevant, but they have to have a reading, but does not draw any conclusion from the reading that makes the last rankings of 2015. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It does not draw any conclusion of what they reveal and, of course, should recognize some elements that are shaped in these rankings. Mr. Secretary of State did not recognize that the results of the State school had improved in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u72	I should recognize him! [[CDS-PP applause.]] This recognition does not suit you, just as it does not suit you with the recognition that there was a real improvement in the students' results of the 4. the year of education—to 4. the class, referred to yesterday by Mr. Prime Minister. You do not recognize that the evaluation has to be made in various circumstances and therefore I am also concerned that you say you have a new model of evaluation, but on this model nothing says, you do not know very well... In fact, the Secretary of State says that you will assess the proof of 4. the class, but you're out of date, because the 4 test. the class has already been eliminated here. So you're already late! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You do not want the objective evaluation of schools, seem to delay the evaluation of teachers, are completely out of date in the evaluation of students... Well, a system that does not evaluate the school, that does not affect the quality of teachers you want to hire, that does not evaluate the results of the students will lead to bad results. It can only bring bad results! [[CDS-PP applause.]] We realize, Mr. Secretary of State, that the left have a problem with the rankings. For the left the rankings should not exist or, if they existed, they should be secret—in fact, the rankings were created by the Government of the Socialist Party, but the results were not to divulge, were only to be known by the Ministry. It was a judicial action brought before the courts that forced the Ministry in 2001 to disseminate the rankings. You usually prefer to hide what you see. It is not possible to say that the previous Executive has been going to destroy public school and public education when the results now presented show exactly the opposite. Change your mind! Change the speech! Let's get the tape! In fact, the tape reminds me of the language locks, which are very funny, that entertain, but do not work. « Under the pipe is a painting; drop the pipe, paint it. It paints her, it drops her pipe! » My son loves children a lot because he is a child, but he gives nothing in terms of results. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] But let's go to results: the rankings show that state school evolution has progressed. It has progressed in the results, so your cassette that the previous executive has been going to destroy the public school has no factual demonstration. Now that they've finished testing the 4th. the year—which is proof, is not an examination—are ignoring the effect that the requirement has had on the results, which are proven, of the students. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The ladies and gentlemen. Members on the left are being contemptuous. It is that rankings also allow you to see what didn't go well and what can be improved. The results show that association contracts are an excellent solution for education and, in this case, schools do not make any selection of students, provide a contractual service with the state and the results presented are very positive. Schools with association contracts account for 8 % of the total, but more than half of them, 55 %, are at the top 25 of the best results. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This should give to look at these results. Rankings allow for improved schools in disadvantaged areas. I want to mention here the best example at national level: the basic school in Barroselas, in my district, to 28. at the national level, rose 700 places, is the second best public school at the national level and the first in the district. It is in an area that is not privileged, it is in a rural area, it is a difficult area for students, however it has risen. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Yes, there can be good results in disadvantaged areas. Finally, I would like to leave a note: there is a great absence here in this debate, that of the Minister for Education. We don't know what the Minister of Education thinks about education, we've never heard him say anything and today, he had a chance, he didn't say anything. The Government Programme provides that the evidence is to be reassessed and management partners propose to eliminate the evidence; FRENPROF says the Minister is available to eliminate them and the Prime Minister says that the evidence is as provided for in the Government Programme. [[PS protests.]] The Left Block says that the Government Programme does not indicate which evidence to be removed and which evidence to be maintained. What have we got? We have the Minister of Education, who says nothing ; the Secretary of State, who is out of date; FRENPROF says what the Minister thinks; the Left Block and the CFP say what the Government Programme means; the Prime Minister rejects all. Make a ranking and end this mess. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u74	The CDS will present a request for Mr. Minister's coming here, to Parliament, to explain what he wants to do about education, what he thinks about education, what he wants to do about education, because stability is what, at the moment, education does not have...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u75	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. You've exceeded your time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u76	... and what Mr. Secretary of State here said that education and stability started badly because it started with instability in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the current debate required by the CDS-PP on the theme of school and educational policies. We will move on to the second point of the agenda, with the general assessment of Bill No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Special social support programme for the third island ( ALRAA ). For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Since this is my first speech in this House, I would like to extend a special greeting to Mr President and all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The third island lives a specific and exceptional period, resulting from the reduction of the military detachment of the United States of America, announced in November 2012, and later reinforced with the impediment of the coming of the families of the U.S. military in August 2013. In terms of economic and financial impacts, we are facing a reduction of EUR 49, EUR 9 million in the economy, an increase in the unemployment rate of 55 % and an impact on the GDP of the 6, 1 % island. in the context of mitigating the negative effects of the reduction of U.S. effects on the Lajes Base, the regional government developed and publicly presented the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan. This plan, which aims to mitigate the economic effects of the reduction of US effectives, identified a set of measures with three levels of responsibility: Government of the Republic, Government of the Azores and Authorities. with regard to the measures of responsibility of the Government of the Azores and the authorities of the Third Island, they are being implemented and with a good rate of implementation. however, despite the establishment of a working group by the former Government of the Republic, it was not possible to implement any measures either in terms of measures directly of responsibility of the Republic, or with regard to the Structural Support Programme to the Third Island to be ensured by the Government of the United States of America. Only a few generalist measures have been presented, for example, the increase in the maximum rate of 85 % to 100 % of the eligible expenditure under the Cohesion Fund, but this change does not arise from the situation of the Lajes Base, but rather from the low rate of implementation of the funds at national level, being an increase applied to both the Azores and Madeira. Recognizing the exceptional and specific nature of the Third Island economy, the unanimous approval of this initiative is of great importance for the sign of solidarity that it transmits to the Azores and, in particular, to the Third Island. This initiative will contribute to minimizing local consumption by facilitating access and increasing the value of various social support, reducing the effect of reducing the purchasing power of families, thus seeking to facilitate the economic and social recovery of the island. however, in addition to this step, it is essential to focus on five important areas: the conversion and environmental cleaning of infrastructure and land built and occupied by the United States over 60 years; the elimination of constraints on the civilian use of Lajes airport ; the creation of the special economic zone of Lajes airport and the Port of Praia da Vitoria ; the increase of the role of tourism in the development of the island; and the attraction of new valences to the Base of Lajes. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Members: To conclude, I would like to remind you that this is an exceptional situation, with an increase in the unemployment rate on the Third Island of 55 % and an impact on the GDP of 6 %. We all act in the valences that I have just mentioned, ensuring decontamination, ensuring the capture of greater investment in the tourism sector, eliminating constraints that restrict the development of the island and safeguarding that the implementation of all the measures identified is carried out in a timely and effective manner is fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u79	Madam Member, the Bureau thanks you and also sends you the vows of greatest happiness in this Parliament. Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill that is discussed today in this House focuses on the issue of the Lajes Base and the social and economic consequences it has for the island, on the basis of the reduction of military effectiveness in this same Base. Therefore, this is a matter of first order and must unite the whole country and all political forces with regard to this supranational interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u81	However, this proposal is wrong and illustrious to those who read it, that is to say, it completely discharges the social and economic misfortune that occurs on the Third Island at the Lajes Base, which is not at least true. The problems of the Third are not only related to the Lajes Base. Indeed, the economy of the island, which is so fragile, so dying, does not exist, cannot absorb the economy resulting from the decrease in its military effectiveness. That is why it becomes a drama, which is why there is great concern that the rest of the island's economy cannot absorb the negative effects of this same decrease. Therefore we have a crisis in the Third World, which adds to this crisis related to the negative impacts of the unilateral decision of the United States. It is also important to point out that putting the blame on the Lajes Base does not correspond to the truth and, worse than this, it is masking the results of the governance of the PS in the Azores, which goes for 20 years. This is indeed a big problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u83	This bill cannot mask a governance of the Azores, the responsibility of the PS, which goes to 20 years. [[PSD applause.]] You cannot excuse inefficiencies, irresponsibility, not doing, shooting forward, wanting to manipulate society, wanting to control society. The Lajes Base is not an scapegoat. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u84	The Regional Government itself blames this whole issue when, in a hurry, it brings together papers and attributes a plan to claim the Third Island, which is nothing more than affixing a set of promises of 15 years of inefficiencies. The signing of this set of promises is to make believe that « now it is going to be », « now we are going to do », « we will use the Lajes Base to pass a cloth, a sponge, to deresponsible all our service », which should be a service of the Regional Government, which does not fulfill what should be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u86	Now, making an obvious and direct assessment of the Plan, it soon turns out a great conclusion: if the Regional Government had done what it had promised in the last 15 years, this Plan was mostly not necessary for the Third Island. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u87	This is indeed the big conclusion. Therefore, the Plan cannot be a flight forward, it cannot be the bleaching of the past, it cannot be the bleaching of an incompetence. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is a proposal that helps, but it is a piece of cake, compared to the previous government's action, which has won the elections and which has been demolished in this Parliament. This proposal, I repeat, is a piece of cake, compared to what has already been the solidarity of the Government led by Passos Coelho, which in advance transferred some EUR 26 million into structural funds and did not advertise. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u88	This is the responsibility of that government. [[PSD applause.]] I repeat: this has not made any publicity, has limited itself to fulfilling and to being responsible, faithful and supportive to the problem we have on the Third Island, which is an Azorian and also a national problem. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u90	I'm done now, Madam President. however, I just hope that the PS does not go back to what was done by the Coelho Pass government, because we know exactly what the taste is and what the trend of its new friends is: the PCP and the Left Block are against the presence of military forces in the national territory and are against the presence of NATO. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u91	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u92	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u93	To defend the honor of the bench, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u94	As a rule, the Bureau is obliged to give you the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my words are very simple. First of all, I would like to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in view of the existence of these proposals, feels in the presence of a discussion which convenes the obligations of the Government of the Republic in relation to the Autonomous Region of the Azores and not in the presence of a discussion on the action or nature of the results undertaken by the governance of the Socialist Party in the Autonomous Region. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the focus of our attention should be precisely on the proportion of what is possible for central government institutions to do in order to minimize the effects of this problem. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] from the point of view of regional governance, there is a proper headquarters for the evaluation of this situation, which is the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and there is also a proper electorate who responds, and has responded eloquently, to what has just been said, that are the Azorians and the Azorians who have subsequently reaffirmed confidence in the Socialist Party for the Government of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u96	In order to reply, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u97	Madam President, my request for a word is for an appeal to the Bureau. To reply, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César will use the floor Mr António Ventura because he was the target Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u98	But that would be obvious, Mr Hugo Soares. It would be Mr. António Ventura's answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u99	Madam President, I asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau only to respond to the concern on the left that was raising this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u100	To explain to Mr Carlos César, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u101	Mr President, then I would like to ask the Bureau next to ask about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u102	You have the floor, Mr. António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think what I said has to do with the subject under discussion. So when we have a bill that comes from the Regional Azores Assembly and focuses its attention, uniquely and exclusively, on the Lajes Base, apologizing all the rest of the economy, obviously that has to be discussed about the rest of the economy. If we have a bill that throws at the Lajes Base the centre of the problems of the Third Island, forgetting all the rest of the problems, obviously I felt struck if I did not speak in the remaining economy of the Third, which is dying, that does not exist, but the entrepreneurs are hopeful about the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We have the highest school failure rate, the highest dropout rate, three-quarters of families with low incomes, the highest RSI (social income) in the country and, therefore, not to mention these issues is to omit a serious problem that we have in the Third and Azores, which is the responsibility of the Socialist Party and the leader of the socialist bench, Carlos César. [[PS protests.]] And, my friends, alert you to the following: Carlos César is out here. With your new friends, be careful how you leave the country! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u104	Now, yes, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, you have the floor for an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u105	Mr President, the appeal is on the following issue: Mr Carlos César was President of the Regional Government of the Azores, and in his own words he was offended by the intervention of a member of the PSD Parliamentary Group. If Mr. Carlos César gets angry every time a member of this bench criticizes... [[PS protests.]] It's no use, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That's music for my ears! Mr. Carlos César will listen to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u106	Is that an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u107	If Mr. Carlos César is going to be indignant and offended in honor every time a Member of this bench criticizes the one that is governance in the Azores, he will have to be indignant many times.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u108	We understand, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u109	Let me tell you, Madam President...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u110	Mr President, the Bureau cannot interpret in advance what will be the meaning of defending the honor of a bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u111	You may, Madam President. Just to finish, if this bench was angry or offended at honor every time they criticized, above all unfairly, the governance of these last four years, we would do nothing more than ask for the honour of this bench. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u112	And, Madam President, I thought you had interrupted Mr. Carlos César... [[PS protests.]] ...and tell him that what he did was another attempt to clean up the game,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u113	... because you are running the political debate wrong, rather than a defense of the honor of the bench. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u114	Your speech is recorded, Mr. Mr President, we are in Parliament, where the debates are essentially political, and the Bureau does not have to interpret the content of requests for personal honor or a bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u115	Break it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u116	The record is made. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we have here today is intended to establish or propose a special social support programme for the third island. in the motivation of this proposal, what refers to the importance of the Lajes Base for the economy of that island, which goes beyond the jobs it created, but the possible extinction of these jobs will have consequences throughout the third island labour market. in this same proposal it refers to the importance of the search for alternatives and the economic conversion of the island, which is of a natural priority importance. Now, when we look at this proposal, there are three conclusions that we can draw and which have to do with this management that governs us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u119	The first conclusion is that, unlike the previous government, which, with the help of the Portuguese diaspora, sought to reverse and find solutions for the decision of the United States of America, the PS, here in the Government, and also in the Regional Government of Azores, is in line with the situation and « throws the towel to the ground ». The question is this: have the negotiations ended? Do you no longer have any effort, the current government, to resolve this same problem? The second conclusion that we can draw is that, in this proposal, there is a confession of the incapacity of the Socialist Party, in particular the Socialist Party of the Azores, in order to create conditions for an increase in productivity, an increase in job creation on the third island, all the more so that what we see in this proposal is reduced to social support for the unemployed. — but also there is still a strange increase in RSI (social income for insertion). It is strange because over time there have been several proposals from the CDS in the Azores to encourage the economy on the third island. And the remaining question is, where are these investments? This is because if it were not the Government of the Republic, then the PSD / CDS government, the truth is that the PS-Azores government would continue to sleep on the problems. What we see, and Mr César, by the way, today, will have to ask for the word to defend honour until the end of the debate, is the sense of impotence on the part of the Socialist Party, which cannot make the Azorian economy grow, and this is regrettable. Now, as a third conclusion, and even in an ironic way, it is found that the proposer of this initiative in the Azores went to the Portuguese Communist Party, and the Portuguese Communist Party, which is always saying « NATO, outside Portugal! The United States, outside Portugal », now, by the way, says "Alas! They'd better not leave, because they're going to create a problem on the third island! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u120	You have to learn to read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u121	Therefore, now it is appropriate to understand what management will give, as far as this matter is concerned, because the Communist Party, in the Azores, is in the light of the fact that it misses many of the United States at the base of the Lajes. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u122	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr John Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, it is clear that you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members of the PSD and the CDS are, in fact, very nervous about this situation. [[Very!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u124	The reduction of U.S. military and civilian forces at the Lajes Base will, as we know, lead to the extinction of a few thousand jobs, direct and indirect, of Portuguese workers, not only at the Base itself but throughout the Third Island. This will represent a social and economic tragedy of enormous dimensions for the region, already as whipped by such phenomena as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, for which the previous Government, the PSD/CDS, did nothing to at least mitigate them, before, aggravated them with their policies of destructive austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u125	in the Azores are your friends of management!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u126	It will be a very great economic and social tragedy if no immediate action is taken. The dismissal of 500 direct workers means the largest collective dismissal in the region. The unemployment values of the active population in the city of Praia da Vitória will reach more than 25 %, which, in addition to the reduction of US effectiveness, will lead to a fall in GDP of 30 % in this municipality, equivalent to a reduction in GDP of 14 % in the third island and 3 % in the whole region. Much hit will also be the Town Hall of Angra of Heroism. All economic activity will be and is already being achieved, such as trade, restoration, real estate. We all knew this was going to happen a few years ago. What did the government of the Republic do then? Nothing! The PSD/CDS government has been characterized by disillusionment, insecurity and irresponsibility in this matter, and in many other matters, as it is known, in the autonomous regions and on the continent!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u128	It is necessary and urgent to implement a social and economic emergency plan in the Third, which minimizes the reduction of civilian personnel in the Lajes Base. In good time the Left Block presented in the Region a draft resolution for the implementation of an emergency plan, which was approved by all parliamentary groups in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It also represented an important step towards the unanimous adoption in the Assembly of a joint draft resolution in March of this year by defining a set of principles to be observed in negotiations with the United States Government. The bill presented here sets out a set of relevant measures to address the populations of these municipalities, but other steps have to be taken, and very quickly, such as the implementation of the already announced economic revitalization plan and the implementation of an urgent and effective environmental plan by the United States, with the decontamination of the entire area, preventing the contamination of aquifers. The Americans cannot steal their responsibilities in these areas and the position of the Portuguese Government in this area must be very firm. Both the PSD/CDS government and the U.S. administration are responsible for the situation to which it has, of course, been reached despite some responsibilities on the part of the Regional Government. In addition to the social compensation provided for, adequate compensation must be guaranteed to both redundancies and the region. This dismissal will be a massacre in the lives of these workers. For several years now, the Left Block has been defending the need to study an alternative, the conversion of the military infrastructure of the Lajes Base for civil purposes, at the service of commercial aviation, and solidly enhancing the economy of the Region. There is thus a need to think about the future of the Base. It is not desirable to maintain a ‘sleeping’ military presence at the Lajes Base and its mixed use is not feasible. The former Rabbit Pass Government didn't solve anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u129	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u130	I will now finish, Madam President. As I was saying, the former Rabbit Pass Government did not resolve anything and placed itself completely of cocoreals, in absolute submission to the United States of America, and only considered NATO membership as a top priority, above any national interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u131	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has been, in a way, unusual. Mr António Ventura made a mistake in the Assembly and came here to make an intervention as if he were in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u133	... that it is an Assembly that deserves our full consideration, but we do not want to usurp its debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u134	All right! I respect autonomy! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u135	The honourable Member, of course, has all the freedom to bring here the matters you want, including those of the Azores. That is not what is at stake, what is at stake is that we are discussing a bill and this bill comes from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved unanimously. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody would say! [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] Listening to Mr António Ventura and Mr António Carlos Monteiro, we would think that the PSD and the CDS, in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, have torn their clothes against this proposal and said: "This is unacceptable! This is unacceptable! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] It wasn't! It wasn't, no! [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] The gentlemen in the Azores voted in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u136	And here too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u137	Well, that's great! So we have all been misled by your interventions. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] Finally, you have attributed this proposal to an absolutely evil character, but, after all, against all the evidence and against your interventions, you will vote in favour. I think very well, they do very well! But on this proposal, let us see what it is and what it is not, and this is a proposal that has to do with the amendment of legislation on certain social benefits, in order to mitigate, in a way that we all know limited, negative consequences that may result from the Portuguese workers fired from the Lajes Base, and therefore it is a measure that has a character, let us say, punctual and limited, although important. Therefore, this proposal will obviously not solve the problems of the economy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, nor of the economy of the Third Island, nor will it solve the problem of the workers involved, it will help solve some problems to these workers and their families, and this is already important, although it is of course limited. The question is that of the objective dependence of the Third Island economy on the Lajes Base. And the big problem, for us, is not the question of American military officers, it is the question of Portuguese workers and their families. This is the big problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u138	The workers are satisfied!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u139	Mr António Carlos Monteiro said: "You don't even want the Americans at the Lajes Base." Therefore, you understand that what we should say here was the following: "So let all Portuguese workers be dismissed, because we do not want the Americans there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u140	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u141	But, Mr President, as we do not have the responsibility to do so, Mr... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u142	... our position is responsible and, unlike you, we believe that the rights of Portuguese workers must be defended, which you have never done. You've never defended them! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u143	Look at our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u144	You have always agreed with the unilateral decisions of the United States...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u145	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u146	... and what happened was that they were making hat speeches in hand to see if the United States was not leaving, because that was important, when what was really important was to defend the interests of the workers at the time when you accepted that the United States unilaterally did not apply the labor agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u147	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u148	I will finish, Madam President. Therefore, it was good for you to really defend the interests of Portuguese workers and the economy of the Third Island, very dependent on that Base.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u149	I would like to conclude, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u150	We welcome the fact that this proposal is adopted here and hope that it will be adopted unanimously, as in the Azores, despite the speeches of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u151	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries in order to speak on this second item of the agenda, and I therefore declare the debate closed. Before we proceed, there is an announcement of file to be made to the House, for which I give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u152	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of the suspension of religious holidays ( PCP ) and 52 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — proposes the extension of the deadline for the change in the scale of contribution of workers to the green receipt ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft law No 76 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code, exempting from ISV vehicles of nine seats for wheelchair transport ( amendment to the ISV Code, approved by Law No 22 -A / 2007 of 29 June 2007 ) ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission. For now, that is all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let us then proceed with the general discussion of Bill No. 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics of dengue fever ( ALRAM ). For the first intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the President has just said, today we are discussing a bill by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira on the national strategy for the prevention and control of dengue fever epidemics. It is important to recall here that this is a proposal based on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party of that Legislative Assembly and that it also obtained the unanimous approval of all parliamentary groups. According to the proposal, this strategy — the national strategy — aims to prevent and control the dengue epidemic, while further clarification of the territorial risk areas is envisaged, the definition of priority areas for special measures. It also proposes this national strategy which applies throughout the national territory. It should also be noted that this aspect of the strategy was discussed in the previous Parliament, here in the Assembly of the Republic, but by choice and theimosia of the PSD and CDS-PP, the respective motion for a resolution was not adopted, and it created exactly this national plan for the prevention of dengue. It must also be said that this bill, which we are discussing today, raises very important issues—of course, the importance of disease prevention, prevention and control of dengue fever—but also alerts to the importance of strengthening the areas of health promotion and public health. It should also be clarified that, over the past four years, these areas of health promotion and disease prevention have been severely whipped and attacked by the previous government, through cuts in the funding of programmes, the non allocation of human and technical resources to promote, in fact, the prevention of diseases and the promotion of health. These issues associated with a low investment in public health and the devaluation of public health at the National Health Service ( SNS ) level were severely whipped in the previous government, where it is important, in fact, now to bet. This should be reversed; there is a need to make a strong investment in disease prevention, health promotion, making SNS more efficient and allowing everyone to have access to these programs. For this to be possible, of course, it is necessary to allocate human and material resources. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u155	For an intervention, on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today a proposal which the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira presented to the Assembly of the Republic to create a national strategy for the prevention and control of dengue fever epidemics. It is important to remember some aspects that seem relevant to us to frame this theme. Dengue fever is transmitted to humans by the bite of the AedesAegypti mosquito and presents, as main symptoms, fever and headaches and joints. in a more serious or advanced state, this disease can cause bleeding, may require hospitalization and may even be fatal, that is, have serious consequences in populations. According to the Directorate-General of Health, the main preventive measure is individual protection against mosquito bite, since there is no vaccine for the disease. Despite the knowledge of the presence in Madeira since 2005 of the etiological agent of this disease, the first cases of dengue fever were recorded laboratoryly in October 2012. What happened in Madeira in 2012 was an outbreak, with an important impact on the Madeiran population: more than 2500 known cases. The previous Government, through Dispatch No. 16 352 / 2012 of 14 December, has already considered the establishment of a plan for the prevention and control of dengue fever. Also in 2012, clinical guidance standards were issued by the Directorate-General of Health regarding the approach to be adopted in dengue cases and the anti-viral fight against the agent we have already referred to. It should be noted that these rules, procedures and plans, relating to the fight against the disease, were drawn up in due course and issued by the previous Government. It is also important to remember that according to the Directorate-General of Health and the health authorities of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the number of dengue fever cases in the region has not increased. Since February 2013 there have been no cases of dengue originating in the Autonomous Region and since February 2014 there have been no cases of dengue imported in the Region, no deaths have been recorded, fortunately. The plans adopted have therefore been effective. Moreover, since there is no dengue epidemic activity on Madeira Island, the surveillance, control and response measures considered relevant have all been kept active. It would be appropriate here to correct Mrs Carla Cruz, who was neither disinterested nor disinvestment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u157	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u158	As the results show, there was effectiveness by the previous Government. So we don't think the dengue fever has spread... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] Let me conclude, Mrs. Member, please. I was saying it didn't seem to us that the dengue fever has spread or, even, out of control. We believe that the plan set up by the former Government is in accordance with the necessary, appropriate and internationally accepted directives. in a region that lives on tourism, with the known migratory flows and being the world map of dengue in change, it is justified to maintain what was in due course well started and that such good results have been achieved. thus the protection, which has already begun in due course, will be maintained, I insist, to the populations of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, so we will vote in favour of this initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u159	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill I present here was sent last October by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. This legislative initiative proposes the establishment of a national plan for the prevention and control of dengue fever epidemics, as is known. As is also known, the climate changes observed in recent years, the migratory flows that are more acutely observed, the increase in tourist movements and the lack of some phytosanitary control, which sometimes exist in the import of certain tree species, are factors that together enhance the spread of vectors that transport and transmit diseases, such as dengue, malaria, or others, in territories where it was not previously common. Although, until recently, there have been no cases, which by their size were worrying, the fact is that the cases of Dengue verified in Madeira in 2012 alerted us to a reality for which we will have to prepare ourselves. It is true that Madeira, having a subtropical climate on the island's lowest quotas, may have conditions more conducive to the propagation of specific vectors, such as this AedesAegypti mosquito, the main transmitter of dengue fever. however, especially in recent years, there have been numerous cases of the spread of these vectors in Europe, alongside the Mediterranean, in temperate climate areas, which, framed in some climate phenomena, create conditions conducive to the development of these vectors. This proposal is intended, therefore, to be sent by the Regional Assembly, to transform or incorporate some platforms that already exist at regional and national level for the research, prevention and combat of these epidemics. All of this, in a plan to prevent and control vector-borne diseases in order to have consequences for prevention and possible combating possible outbreaks at national level or in certain regions of the country. I should also like to inform you that the Directorate-General for Health, having heard about this proposal, suggests a more comprehensive plan, considering not only the relevant and relevant matter such as the reemergence of some diseases associated with the introduction of vectors in Europe a public health concern at national and international level. It therefore proposes that this plan not only refer to the problem of dengue epidemics, but also to other vector transmission diseases. In conclusion, this plan should therefore incorporate different aspects such as research, monitoring, prevention and combating the spread of these vectors of diseases, as well as the definition of updated approaches to medical care in the event of outbreaks. On the other hand, the efficient articulation between national and regional health institutions, the scientific community and also the authorities should be another of the benefits of the existence of a national plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u161	Mr Vilhena, I have not done so before, but now I would like to welcome you in your first speech, wishing you a good mandate, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Bureau. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dengue fever is endemic in about 100 countries and is responsible for the death of 20 000 to 25 000 people per year. in Europe, it has already been the cause of vast epidemics and high mortality in the past. However, its main vector, the AedesAegypti mosquito, has disappeared from Europe, but it has, on time, been resurrected in the last few years, which must be, and is, a cause of concern. There are many reasons for the resurgence of this main vector of dengue fever, including climate change and global warming, which cause migration from the population of this mosquito and create conditions for its reproduction in other environments, not those of origin. But there is also the question of the increase in migratory flows and the transport of passengers and goods, which is often done without proper phytosanitary control, which, for example, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, was the main reason for this mosquito if introduced there. For these reasons the European Centre for Disease Prevention has already said that there are all the conditions for dengue fever to be installed in southern Europe. And, still recently in Madeira, dengue transmitter vectors were identified in 2005 and again in 2012, in which dozens of cases and dozens of people were reported. For all this, the Left Block follows the proposal that comes from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and believes that the Assembly of the Republic will welcome it. Given that there is still no vaccine for this particular disease—there is one study, but it is not yet being applied—the bet should therefore be in prevention, i.e. in phytosanitary measures, especially when we talk about the transport of goods, control and monitoring of mosquito populations, training and information to populations and agents involved in health. however, we believe that this prevention plan should not be left by dengue fever, should be extended to other diseases transmitted exactly by the same vector. For example, at this time in Brazil and other countries in South America, there is a huge epidemic caused by the Zika virus that is transmitted by exactly the same vector of dengue fever. Therefore, Portugal and Europe should also look with concern at this spreading epidemic, so we believe that the proposal herein should be welcomed and that its application should be extended, not only for the prevention of transmission of dengue but also for the prevention of all diseases transmitted by the same vector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u163	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the Social Democratic Party, of course and again, supports the national strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics, in general, and dengue, in particular. Fortunately, the situation is fully controlled in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, there are no cases recorded in recent times and the Madeira Government has undertaken, over recent years, a successful investment strategy that has gone through monitoring and efficient monitoring of the situation. The result is clear: there are no new cases and, in terms of public health, the situation is fully controlled. This is, of course, due to the strong investment and attention of the Madeira Government, but also to the government prior to the national level. however, and it is evident that, also due to climate change, this type of epidemics or, if we want, so-called tropical diseases can occur anywhere in the national territory or even in the European territory, which has already happened. For this reason, all national legislation or strategy for the prevention of such epidemics is of course welcome; indeed, it meets what the Democratic Social Party has always defended, has always supported and created in recent years. This is a national strategy in best European, national and regional practices and therefore deserves our full agreement. It is a national strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics and, highlighting dengue fever, we also suggest that the rest of Europe should do what is being applied to Portuguese territory, naturally competing with the Ministry of Health to ensure financial support for this programme. In conclusion, we associate ourselves with the adoption of this proposal, because it is going to meet not only what has been done in recent years, and well, and with very positive concrete results in Madeira, but also the positions and initiatives of the Democratic Social Party here, in the Assembly of the Republic, in recent years, when this issue has been discussed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u166	Mr Paulo Neves, on my behalf and on behalf of the Bureau, I welcome you and congratulate you on your first intervention and wish you a good mandate. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention, which is not the first.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u167	It is not, no, Madam President, and we also hope that it will not be the last! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the outbreak of dengue that occurred in Madeira in 2012 The Greens understood that something had to be done, in addition to the response the health authorities were giving, because they were giving an answer to control the situation, of course. Faced with the risk factors and the possibility of that outbreak not to be confined to Madeira and to be able to spread, as we all know, to other parts of the national territory, and not only, The Greens in 2013 brought to the Assembly of the Republic draft resolution No 726 / XII ( 2 ). a ), which rightly called for the establishment of a national plan for the prevention of dengue. What was the response of the PSD and CDS-PP? Drop the initiative. Why? Because everything was being done and there was no need to do anything more rigorously. Three years later, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira decided unanimously to approve a bill to come to the Assembly of the Republic, which rightly proposes the creation of a national strategy for the prevention and control of dengue. [[Take a good look!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u168	PSD and CDS-PP chat has now changed. And I'm glad you've changed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not critical of that! What I'm saying is that this could already be done. We have lost two years since the introduction of the proposal by The Greens here in the Assembly of the Republic. This plan or strategy could be made. The great and deep public discussion around this subject could have been done, which, moreover, is fundamental to awareness and information. This could be done, but it is good that they have changed their mind and that, apart from what has been done, the risks continue to exist and that there is a prevention and control strategy that is essential, because that will help us, and everything we have is obviously positive. We know, as scientists have already determined and informed the peoples and governments of the world about this matter, that the phenomenon of climate change has consequences that are not to play, and one of the consequences is precisely the spread of diseases that are now, more or less, confined to tropical climates. There's a risk they're moving around the world. Therefore, "preventing" is a fundamental word in all sectors, but in terms of the environment and health, it is even central. in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in view of the contribution that the Greens had already made to the Assembly of the Republic in 2013, we will of course be voting in favour of this bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which is precisely aimed at creating a national strategy for the prevention and control of dengue. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u169	Since the PSD Parliamentary Group still has some time, Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u170	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your kind compliance a while ago. Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, we're not wasting time. There was no time lost. And so it is that, and it is the best proof of this, there are no cases of dengue in recent years. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] There was no time lost! There were teachings! And I would like to assure you that, both by the Government of Madeira and also by the national Government, all proposals, all suggestions have been taken seriously. So much has been taken seriously that, fortunately, and I think you agree with me, we have this good news that there are no new cases in recent years either in the Autonomous Region of Madeira or in the rest of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u171	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of Bill No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), we will move forward to point 4 of our agenda, which consists in the general presentation and discussion of Bill No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increased social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any entries. If there aren't, we'll move on to the next point. [[Pause.]] Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u172	Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, first of all, a previous note to thank you for the schedule of these diplomas of the regional legislative assemblies. I believe that this is a healthy inter-parliamentary behaviour of the Assembly of the Republic and of the regional assemblies, which, as it is public knowledge, has not always been recorded, nor, especially in the last four years, has this happened. I would therefore like to thank the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Ferro Rodrigues, for this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The pretext of this discussion and what has already happened today, in some way allow me to introduce two aspects of political importance to the autonomous regions, but also to the country. The first has to do with the utility that I think the country today has to revisit what were the regional governments of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and the second has to do with observing the country's relationship with these Autonomous Regions over the past four years. Regarding the first aspect, about regional governments, we are faced with two completely different situations, as it seems to be obvious and the whole country knows. on the one hand we have an autonomous region governed in the last 20 years by the Socialist Party and which had as its main protagonist Mr. Carlos César, president of the Socialist Party parliamentary bench, which made a journey, as we all know, difficult because, as the autonomous regions are far from the decision-making centres and in the middle of the Atlantic, it becomes very difficult to do things as it should be — but sustainable, and today that region has levels of development appropriate to that which has been the effort made over recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u174	on the other hand we have the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which, as it is public knowledge, collapsed in 2011. And it collapsed in 2011 because the PSD government, which has ruled the Autonomous Region of Madeira for many years, has owed debt and, in 2011, in addition to all the debt it has made, has still hidden EUR 1000 million of debt and more than 2000 bills,... [[PSD protests.]] ...what came to harm, as you know, the Portuguese public deficit and embarrassed the Madeirans and the whole country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of this, there is a first conclusion: on the one hand, on the side of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, we have a right, proper governance on the people's side, on the side of the Azores and it is today a success case, from the point of view of the autonomous process; on the other hand we have an autonomous region that has done everything contrary, which has not looked at people and is clearly today a case of failure, with regard to Portuguese autonomic processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to introduce the second item, which is, in some way, to look at the future. Looking to the future because the country is today making a reconciliation with the workers, with small and medium-sized enterprises, with the families and with the people of the country from the Government of the Socialist Party. Thus, nothing more natural than the country also today makes a reconciliation with the Autonomous Regions. It is absolutely essential for the country to make this effort to work for the Autonomous Regions and to make an appropriate reconciliation with them. I conclude by saying that, worse than the dispute between Madeira and the country, it was actually the indifference and contempt that the PSD/CDS-PP government had toward the Autonomous Regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand the discomfort of the PSD and the CDS in not wanting to join this discussion, above all, in order to be able to take on the responsibilities they had had to, in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, have unanimously voted and approved this proposal, which we welcomed and valued even more having come from the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, which aimed to increase 2 % in the values of social protection subsidies in maternity, paternity and adoption to residents in the Autonomous Regions. We understand this because if in Madeira they voted in favour here in Parliament they have always rejected this possibility and have even done the opposite way, which was to impose cuts on these social support. The CFP has been presenting proposals on these matters and we have noted, as significantly serious, the inavailability of the PSD and the CDS for, for example, the creation of a specific maternity leave of prematurity lasting the period of hospital stay of the unborn child, the strengthening of the protection of the worker in case of collective dismissal, the payment of the benefit for specific risks to 100 % of the reference remuneration, the free decision of the couple on the period of enjoyment of maternity leave and paternity, or for the increase of the licence from 30 to 90 days in the case of a child with disabilities or chronic disease. The truth is that the discussion of these projects has proved one thing: what Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS do in Madeira and the Azores is exactly the opposite of what the government, which they supported, had done on the Continent four years ago. That is why it is important that the outcome of the 4 October legislative elections may impose another path to the country, a path of progress, of development, putting the path of backwardness in the past, which is where it must be. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u177	For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A previous note on the importance which the PS-Madeira attaches to this bill: not a word! He prefers political guerrillas between islands to something else. Mr. Carlos Pereira, to make hero headlines in the regional press, it is already interesting to talk about motherhood and paternity, but now to talk here, in this House, about the matter, it is no longer! But we don't enter these guerrillas between islands, we leave this for your entertainment as part-time leader of your regional structure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u179	Dear Mrs. Members, Bill No 3 / XIII ( 1 ) a ), today under discussion, presented to the Assembly of the Republic by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, aims to achieve an increase, in the order of 2 %, of social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption, in support taken by residents in the Autonomous Regions. It should be stressed that this bill reaches the Assembly of the Republic based on the broad political consensus reached in the Regional Assembly, where all political parties have approved this initiative, showing how it is possible, yes, to reach consensus on matters of urgency. This initiative covers, at the same time, two concerns: first, to look after the duty of the State with constitutional consecration in compensation and correction of structural inequalities caused by insularity and, second, to articulate the policies of support to families in an appropriate way to the conditioners in which they live. This bill accompanies the strong social commitment of Madeira's regional budget for 2016, where 49 % of the appropriations under discussion this week are affected by the social area, which stresses the need for action in these fields. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the outermost part does not sum up a political and legal bond, it is a constant element of our day-to-day. We live in the outermost regions when we are conditioned in transport choices. We live in the outermost regions when we find it difficult to obtain products and services. We live in the outermost regions when we see price differences in the foreign types, which still persist, from Portugal to islands. It is therefore a reality lived by thousands of families, which, due to the geographical conditionalities of the Autonomous Regions where they were born or where they chose to live, at the beginning, are not on equal footing with the other national citizens, as regards the cost of living. That is why the Portuguese State commits to the autonomy mechanisms for correcting this profound inequality; a principle of correction so present in the DNA and experience of the PSD as a party to autonomy. The added value of the ultraperipheral is often cited, highlighting the unique aspects of its biodiversity, its strategic position and even its historical richness. This bill aims to raise the greatest wealth the Autonomous Regions have and that brings the greatest costs of insularity: their families. The vote in favour of this House, in the light of the bill, will result in an increase in support for families who courageously decide to oppose the demographic winter that is felt, in a singular way, in the Autonomous Regions and is also the manifestation that the State acts so that there are no Portuguese first and second categories. Because being born, growing, educating and creating are verbs that cannot be conjugated unequally in our territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u180	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative aims to achieve an increase in social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption for residents of the Autonomous Regions. The proponents justify this proposed increase of 2% of this increase as compensation for insularity, attenuation due to the difference in the standard of living in the Autonomous Regions and a way of reducing inequalities aggravated by the low incomes of family aggregates. The CDS-PP, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he has always defended measures to support birth and improve the quality of life of couples with children. Measures taken by the previous Government such as the quarterly review of family allowance, the increase in unemployment benefit for couples with children, the tax deductions in IRS, the family quotient, the reduction of IMI for families with children, or even the increase in sickness benefit, are some concrete examples of measures to support families, support for birth and improve the quality of life. The CDS, whenever it had the chance to implement measures of social justice, promotion of birth and support to families with children, was always consistent, was always from words to acts. when we read this bill, from the articulate to the explanatory statement and recognizing the concrete specificity of the Autonomous Regions, we are all called for a problem, which is national and which, as a national problem that is, must also require national solutions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I underline, as a final note, as did the parliamentary board of the CDS in the Regional Assembly, that the authors of this legislative initiative did not follow it up with something that was essential: a study of the impact of the proposed amendments. And for that reason, Mrs President and Mrs and Mrs. Members, recognizing what is the specificity of insularity and the concrete economic specificity of the Autonomous Regions, we continue to say that this problem is national and, as such, it must require national solutions. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u182	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Protection in kinship is a right that is constitutionally guaranteed. We know how the concrete exercise of this right has been hit by austerity policies in recent years. We know how impoverishment, unemployment, invitations to emigration were the greatest obstacle to birth in our country and also, that precariousness, informalization of labour relations have been the concrete prohibition of access to any kind of protection, in particular protection in parenthood. These circumstances only make protection mechanisms in maternity, paternity and adoption even more relevant. In general terms, it is true that there are several aspects to improve these schemes, including their effectiveness, their scope, the promotion of equality and sharing, the equalization of rights with regard to adoption. But what this diploma is about, as it is known, is whether the State should take into account the costs of insularity and the inequalities resulting there, in particular in terms of cost of living in the Autonomous Regions, and whether or not it should increase these subsidies by 2 % for the citizens of the islands, as proposed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Our opinion is that yes. It would not be a single, unpublished case, and therefore this proposal is fair. We follow her and we agree with her. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u184	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the intervention of the CDS confirmed the principle we invoked here: in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, they followed the importance of this proposal and, according to the PSD, with a broad consensus, but, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS, this consensus is not confirmed here in the National Parliament. And this means, objectively, a fraud of expectations regarding what is assumed in Madeira, because then, here on the Continent, where these consequences can effectively have practice, are not confirmed. I would like to say here, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, that the PSD/CDS government in no way guaranteed the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights. on the contrary, it allowed successive and repeated violations of maternity and paternity rights in workplaces to continue to occur due to insufficient response capacity of the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ). And today we have an unacceptable situation, in which, in the workplace, fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution are violated by the failure of the Labour Conditions Authority to respond, something with which the former PSD and CDS Government live well. from the PCP we are committed to continuing to defend the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights and, in Madeira, but also in Lisbon, on the Continent, in the country, we advocate the increase of 2 % in this fundamental support. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u186	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP still has time, and Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u187	Mrs President, Mrs Rita Rato, does not draw conclusions from what you have not heard. Sometimes the Portuguese Communist Party has the habit of drawing conclusions from the interventions of the other parliamentary groups which, in fact, I do not know where it is going to look for them. What I mentioned here about this legislative initiative, and which I reaffirm, is that, in the face of a problem, which is a national problem, national solutions need to be found. Now, again, what I say is that insularity is obviously something that results from these Autonomous Regions, but the truth is that the problem of birth exists throughout the national territory and even, I know, in the district of origin of Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u188	People don't have jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u189	That's what I said here. She said that the previous government did nothing in favour of birth and birth protection policy. Mrs Deputy, I reaffirmed, and I reaffirm again, concrete measures of the previous Government to support birth: quarterly review of family allowance; increase of unemployment allowance for couples with children; tax deductions at IRS headquarters; family allowances; reduction of IMI for families with children; increase in sickness benefit. There are several concrete examples, Mrs Deputies, of a very clear policy to support birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u190	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u191	Madam Member, we will see what the Portuguese Communist Party achieves — because now the honourable Member supports a government — that the Government of the Socialist Party is doing for a policy of birth, which can actually achieve concrete results in the lives of the Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u192	Mrs. Members, with no further inscriptions, the debate of Bill No. 3 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a). The Bureau was aware of an agreement between the various banks to amend the agenda. So instead of moving to point 5, which has to do with the discussion of petition No 441 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Presented by the Platform against the Park, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic intervene in order to prevent the construction of the underground parking lot in the Place of the Royal Prince, we move to the last point of the order of business, which has to do with the joint assessment of petition No 457 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Joaquim Cesario Cardador dos Santos ( Platform Together by the hospital in the municipality of the Sixal ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures for the improvement of health in the municipality of the Sixal, namely the construction of a hospital and new health centres, and of draft resolutions 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the hospital in the county of Seixal ( PCP ) and 48 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to primary health care in the Setúbal Peninsula and the construction of Seixal Hospital ( BE ). Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word is for a warm greeting from the PCP to the petitioners, who today discussed and collected more than 8,000 signatures, around a question so relevant to the Sixal Council and its population, such as access to health care. We would also like to welcome Mr President of the Chamber of Six, here today, the elected gentlemen, the committees of users and the people who are here today also attending this debate. [[PCP applause.]] The construction of a hospital in Sixal is increasingly urgent. The suspension of this project and its construction by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS solely on a mercantilist issue does not meet the needs of the population and is included in the policy of de-investment that continued and that has made access to health difficult. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] We know that Garcia de Orta Hospital has no capacity to respond to the needs of the population. Your services are broken, waiting times are very high. [[Protests by PSD MP João Paulo Oliveira.]] Therefore, the CFP today brought to the Assembly of the Republic an initiative to propose the construction of this hospital as soon as possible, fulfilling the agreement that was established and going to meet the demands and aspirations of the people, who have never lowered their arms and who today are also here to defend their right to health. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u194	For an intervention by the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We couldn't imagine that building a hospital would cause such fury. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] First of all, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet the petitioners, the autarchs, the President of the Chamber of Six, the users of the Town Hall of Six, who have been in this struggle for many years. If we are here today defending this project is also due to the struggle that they have unleashed and, therefore, I leave a greeting to all and all. Let's get to the facts. You like facts. I'm reducing demagogy, I agree, so we're going to do things. The Garcia de Orta Hospital was built and designed for an area of influence of 150 000 inhabitants. It now covers an area of influence of more than 400 000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u196	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u197	It is obvious that this causes successive ruptures in terms of the access and health services provided. Moreover, as is public knowledge, all winters have dramatic cases at the Garcia de Orta Hospital, which demonstrate what also happens a little throughout the country, but especially in the Setúbal district. The municipality of the Sixal, which is part of this area of influence of the Garcia de Orta Hospital, is a municipality of an area that has had a very large population density growth. To get an idea, in the last 10 years it has passed from about 150 000 inhabitants to more than 180 000 inhabitants. This is also one of the reasons why Garcia de Orta Hospital can no longer provide an answer. What happens today is that, in the county of Sixal, after eight o'clock at night, there is no open health service — one! in a municipality with more than 180 000 inhabitants, there is no open health service and therefore the construction of the hospital of Seixal was already fair at the time it was negotiated with the Ministry of Health, in 2009. It has the conditions of land and accessibility guaranteed by the Authority and is even more fair, at this time, to ensure access to the health of this population. But this reality does not hide another: that of the existence of 200 000 users in the Setúbal district without access to a family doctor. In the Almada-Sixal area alone there are more than 60 000 users without access to a family doctor. Permanent care services have been closed, health centres have been closed and there are no conditions, there are no family doctors. Since this population is severely impaired in access to health, the construction of the Sixal hospital is a basic reason for the fulfilment of a commitment to this population and the primary health care bet should also be a priority for this district. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u198	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 8237 subscribers of this petition, some of them present here. This is a petition with very expensive questions to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, which has closely and with interest this issue, which considers a legitimate aspiration of the populations. It is important to recall from the outset that the response to the health needs of these populations has been assured, in the Council of Sixal, at the level of primary health care, by the units of the ACES Almada-Sixal and, at the level of secondary care, by the Garcia de Orta Hospital, with investments in primary health care that should not be forgotten, for the sake of the facts mentioned by Mrs Joana Mortágua. It should also be borne in mind that when the construction of a new hospital is planned it is essential to ensure good planning, taking into account the difficulties experienced by the administrations of hospitals in recruiting health professionals, as well as the need to enhance the use of available resources and installed capacity, in order to respond with quality to the demand for health care by the populations. We have come to follow the hospital reorganization with all care and attention and any decision to be taken should be based on the best scientific, epidemiological and also economic planning evidence. Of course, and as it cannot fail to be, account must be taken of the care profiles of each hospital, the available human resources and the needs of the populations to be covered by each of them. The purpose of the CDS is, as it could only be, to ensure that all citizens are guaranteed access to the appropriate health care they really need, harmonizing local, regional and national needs without false promises and without demagogy. In this regard, I would like to inform the House that tomorrow we will send a question to the Minister of Health regarding the construction of a new hospital in Sixal, because, as we all know, the Socialist Party was, in the past legislature, in favour of its construction. We will see whether they will now maintain this position, whether they will ensure money and human resources for their construction and maintenance without excessive burden on taxpayers and without creating or increasing excessive health deficits, which they left to the former Government. [[All right!]] [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u200	I can therefore assure the subscribers of this petition that the CDS continues to monitor with all attention and particular interest the question that brings us here, in order to ensure that the entire population in the Setúbal district has access to the best and most efficient health care, always with quality and safety. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member João Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u201	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am absolutely amazed at the intervention I have just heard. It was four years — I repeat, four years — of a PSD/CDS legislation without having been done for the construction of the Sixal hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was four years ago, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, for which it is good to remember the history: the Ministry of Health of the previous Government came to the Parliamentary Health Commission of this House of the Republic saying that there were no studies when she knew that there was; she said that the construction of the hospital was not necessary and that all medical services were provided to the populations of the Setúbal district and, in particular, to the Town Hall of the Six. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS can rejoice today, because what you did in Setúbal district was to deprive 200 000 family medical users. There are only 60 000 non-family users in the county of Seixal because of the former government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more, sirs. Members: At the end of the Socialist Government of 2011 there was a strategic agreement between the ARS of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo and the City Hall of Seixal and had land made available by the City Council and the Ministry of Internal Administration. What you have done, for four years, has been grasping a question from the Ministry of Finance not to solve the problem and to penalize the population of the Setúbal district. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And as if it weren't enough, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember here today that because of this government the emergency directors of Garcia de Orta Hospital have been dismissed by breaking up response to the users of Seixal, Sesimbra, Almada, Montijo and often Setúbal. That's why, sirs. Members, the Socialist Party is here and I, as the head of the list of the Setúbal district by the PS, demand the construction of a hospital in Sixal. I am here today, before all petitioners, the autoarchs, users and the country to say that the Socialist Party undertakes to resume what was a process interrupted by you to respond to the users. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u203	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u204	I shall now conclude, Mr President. For us, it's no more important to know if we spend an extra tot. For us, the most important thing is the lives that have been lost because there is no medical response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall now finish, Mr President, to say that the Sixal hospital, which is necessary, is an outpatient hospital, of low financial resources for its construction. You in the former Government could have used the negotiation of the 60 million structural funds to build the hospital and give the health response that users deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u205	Mr Bruno Vitorino, from the PSD, spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate all the petitioners in the persons of Mr. President of the City Council of the Sixfold, Joaquim Santos, and Mr. Vereador Paulo Edson, here present. On the Sixal hospital, I am indeed amazed by the rejection of the leaders of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u207	All right! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u208	In 2005 the Socialist Party won the elections with an absolute majority. In 2005 the Sixal hospital and this claim was already on the political agenda. From 2005 to 2009, nothing was done. on the eve of the 2009 elections, with purely electoralist effects, Minister Ana Jorge signed the protocol that Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes spoke to the City Hall to proceed immediately to its construction. They were still government by 2011 and did nothing more rigorously until that date. They had six years with all the financial conditions, with the troika still in their home and not here, in which they strictly did zero! Repeat: zero! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] After three months of the new government, they immediately said: « You have to do it! ' — became the top priority of priorities. They said: "This new government has to build, and now, because it is a priority! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, everything that you have not done, not honoring your commitments, immediately demanded from the next government, with that stick-face that you normally present in these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u209	You have had a lot of time and conditions to build!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u210	But not only did they build the hospital, as they left the country in a completely miserable situation, of pre-bancarrot, a country full of debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u211	Well remembered! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u212	What have we been doing all this time? We went to build new health centers in Setúbal district, such as Quinta do Conde, Verderena, Santo António or Sines. We're going to double the supply at the level of the continuous or palliative care network. We are going to fix more family doctors in these same councils than now Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes speaks, without having a minimal notion of numbers or then manipulating them, which is even worse. And we paid a lot of debt, millions of euros of socialist debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u213	Well remembered! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u214	It was this heritage that you also left in Setúbal district! But as the philosopher said, the world has changed. Therefore, now that we have a Government of the Socialist Party, a Government of the Left Block and a Government of the Communist Party, being a government that is said with great sensitivity to share these areas, now that we no longer have the troika, that we already have other financial conditions, now do, comply! It is not about making more promises for the end of the legislature, because we do not know how long it will last! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Give to the people with whom we have now committed clear signs, already in the next State Budget, that this is even to do and that it is no more promises, equal to so many others that the Socialist Party has done, both in the Setúbal district and in the country. We expect more seriousness from you. They build the hospital, but now they build the rest of the health equipment they promised, they build all the other health centers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u215	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u216	... immediately, at Baixa da Banheira, at Barreiro, at Alto do Seixalinho, at Pinhal Novo, in Corroios and at Foros da Amora and do not lie to people. They don't build a health center and then put on a plate to say « hospital». This is a fallacy that, perhaps, is in your mind. Don't do that! There must be a minimum of dignity, and serious work must be built. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u217	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u218	You have the floor, Your Honor. You know that regiment figures are to be respected, as is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u219	Mr President, with so many years of Parliament, if I didn't know they were to be respected, I couldn't use them. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u220	Sure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u221	Mr President, I would like to make a strict request to the Bureau so that, through Mr President, I could work with the Health Committee to deliver the following documents to Mr Bruno Vitorino and all the benches on the right: a strategic collaboration agreement for the launch of the hospital located in the Sixth, signed between the Ministry of Health and the City Hall of Six in August 2009 and the study that was conducted for three years, completed, which is deposited in the Health Commission's Offices, so that no such intervention can exist anymore, and false, here in this Plenary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. The Bureau shall endeavour to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u223	Mr President, I would also like to address an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u224	Mr Vitorino will also speak to the Bureau knowing the rules of the appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u225	Mr President, it is exactly the same terms. I would also like Mr President to be able to give Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes a copy of the 2005 election results which clearly show that the Socialist Party, in fact, has won the elections and has ruled over us during that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u226	It's a little too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u227	And now he also asked for a copy of the 2009 election results to be delivered, which also prove that the Socialist Party has been a government for another two years. And throughout all this time that it was government that did a lot of studies, made a lot of promises...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u228	And he also asks for a telephone list from the district, with the names of the users who have complaints to make? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u229	The Bureau can't go beyond what's coming in the newspapers; it doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u230	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u231	I think it's necessary to ask the Bureau to pursue issues that are not public and that come on the front pages of the newspapers, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u232	I would just like to note that Mr President is in fact right with regard to the request I have just made, it is only a pity that he did not have the same reason with regard to the previous request. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u233	in the previous interpellation, I began by warning Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes that she should know the figure of the interpellation. And what the honourable Member has asked is that the Bureau distribute documents which, for example, as a member of the Bureau, I do not know. What you asked for was the distribution of documents the whole country knows. Therefore, they are quite different situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would also like to begin by greeting all the petitioners and, among those petitioners, by welcoming those who have asked to be here today to attend this session, in particular the President of the House and the President of the Sixth City Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we imagine a hospital built to serve about 150 000 inhabitants and imagine that this hospital does not serve that amount of inhabitants, serving, yes, about 450 000. This is how the Garcia de Orta Hospital works, with some aggravatings in the middle. In 2013, the reference hospital for Barreiro and Setúbal hospitals has lost specialized doctors — staff, therefore— having a very clear lack of primary health care in the region, which leads more people to hospitals, as we know. By the way, let me remind the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS who you are talking about in a region that has a huge shortage of family doctors, who have numerous users without a family doctor and who you promised to the Portuguese that they would not finish the past legislation without all Portuguese having a family doctor. They've failed your commitment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u235	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u236	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u237	from here, of course, it results in a huge inability to respond to hospital services, especially from the Garcia de Orta Hospital, high times of waiting and attendance and effective ruptures at certain heights. I think everyone here has recognized it, because it is undeniable, it is impossible not to recognize that it is essential to build and exist a hospital in Sixal. It happens that this is a process that already takes several legislatures. The promises and commitments made around the implementation of the Sixal hospital were numerous. The strategic agreement signed by the government at that time with the City Council in 2009, which determined until the Seixal hospital was completed in 2012, was discussed here. We therefore waste time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u238	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u239	I'm done now, Mr. President. The previous government, the PSD and the CDS, suspended the trial, and suspended it because it wanted it, because that was its option. And, Mr. Bruno Vitorino, I am going to tell you one thing: I am very surprised at the hatred you expressed here today in case Seixal's hospital is being built! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u240	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u241	It seemed so!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u243	Mrs. Deputy, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u244	I would like to conclude by saying the following: Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I welcome your words and I would like to say that the Greens here are going to collect the perennial statement that the honourable Member here today has made, for the benefit of Sixal, Almada and all those populations. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u245	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the interventions we have heard by the PSD and the CDS, I cannot fail to record the exercise of demagogy and hypocrisy, because for more than four years in which they have been in the government they have done nothing for the implementation and construction of the hospital in the municipality of the Sixal. [[PCP and PS applause.]] More: in this period, not only did they not build as they said it was not necessary, as they said there would be over-installed capacity and there was a need to assess.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u247	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u248	The truth is, in four years, the access of the populations of Almada, Seixal and Sesimbra to health has worsened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u249	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u250	Mr Vitorino spoke of the great work that the former Government has done in the area of primary health care reform. I would like to know what the honourable Member was referring to, if it is the fact that a large number of users do not have a family doctor, if it is the closure of various services and valences in various health centres — in Moita, in Alhos Vedros, in Bajo da Banheira — that have lost valences. That is what the honourable Member was referring to, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u251	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u252	The truth is that, during these four years, what has been found to be closures, it was the non-contracting of professionals that are necessary to respond to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u253	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u254	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying the following: today, in this debate, we note the prospect that has actually opened up the construction of the hospital in the municipality of Sixal, responding to the aspirations and demands of the people, giving shape to these same claims and demonstrating also that it has been worth and worth fighting. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u255	We have concluded the debate on this agenda item. We turn to petition No 441 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Platform against the Park, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to intervene in order to prevent the construction of the underground parking lot in the Square of the Royal Prince. Mr Diogo León, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is, of course, up to this House of the Republic to know properly and to inform itself of cases which, like this one, constitute concerns or aspirations for our fellow citizens. We therefore greet the petitioners who, by using this right, have prestigious this instrument of direct interaction between representatives and representatives, strengthening the links that are increasingly desired between the representative component of our democracy and the participatory initiative. This is a just cause when it defends the classified historical heritage that lies in the basement of the Place of the Prince Real, namely the Patriarchal reservoir and the galleries of the Aqueduct that emanate from there and, on the surface, the Garden France Borges, where there is a rich tree and plant heritage, also of public interest. Fortunately, the objectives of this petition are achieved today, having the ultimate purpose of the petition was met, given that the City Council of Lisbon had, on 30 December 2014, denied the licensing process of the underground parking lot of the Place of the Prince Real, after having received the opinion of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage not approved. Finally, and because this reference is deserved, we consider it important to remind the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic that this petition was also submitted to the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, a body responsible for the supervision of the municipality of Lisbon which, as is known from the entire process available on the website of the Authority, has followed the petition, giving evidence of exemplary functioning of the democratic local power and of the proximity that the same Assembly has maintained with the lisboa municips. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u257	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, the dynamizers and the subscribers of this petition and I welcome the initiative they have carried out, expressing legitimate concerns about the construction of a parking lot in the Royal Prince in Lisbon, an area sensitive for environmental reasons and also the presence of classified heritage of great importance. In fact, the PCP, from the first hour at the level of its local and municipal intervention, spoke against the construction of this underground park, warning that, in addition to environmental and heritage issues, the project would eventually increase the automotive pressure in this area. We defend at that time, and we continue to defend, that a discussion should be initiated with a view to taking measures to improve mobility in the area, through, among other measures, a public transport service that meets the needs of the population and we also remember that the decision of the previous Government to end certain careers had a particular impact on these Fregueses. Respecting the autonomy of local power in matters that are within its competence and regardless of the outcome already announced in this concrete situation, we cannot fail to express the concern of the CFP regarding any action that may promote the decharacterization of urban morphology in traditional public spaces. Equally worthy of attention should be the promotion of large-scale constructions in the urban basement and the impact on soil waterproofing phenomena and the contribution to increasing flood risks in urban areas. If the central area of the cities tends to suffer a majority daily parking demand pressure, the answer to the problem cannot pass through the proliferation of the construction of parking parks. We reaffirm that the option to favour should go through the definition of public transport policies to serve the needs of the population, denouncing the automotive pressure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u259	Mrs Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, I welcome and thank the petitioners for bringing this issue to debate in the Assembly of the Republic, which, of course, constitutes an initiative of citizenship and relevant democratic participation which is important to raise and greet. Mr President, the PSD, in principle, does not have the practice of bringing here questions that are eminently authentic, issues that are the subject of discussion and appreciation in the bodies themselves. We always respect that. however, we do not steal from the debate, especially when these issues are raised by the citizens in the exercise of a right and an instrument of participatory democracy. Of course, because of this circumstance, the PSD deals with this issue, and we do it with all comfort, since, in its own place, the PSD was also against the construction of this parking lot exactly because it considers that the same can call into question heritage values, architectural and landscape values that are historical and cultural heritage of the city of Lisbon that it urgently needs to preserve and that, in our view, are not properly safeguarded. In any case, we also appreciate the fact that the City Hall of Lisbon has already abandoned this project, which will not have been beyond this initiative of citizens, who, in the defence of the interests of Lisbon and in the preservation of its specificities, have mobilized against this construction. But the convenience of presenting this petition is not left here: in addition to contributing to this issue being widely debated and not confined to the bodies of the municipal power of Lisbon, it was also virtual to put this policy that is so true of the radical left, which is always the tow of populism and which in Lisbon had its maximum exponent in the slogan « The Zé is needed». Now, it has been proved here that, in this case, "Zé" was not needed, there was not even a lack. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u261	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the petitioners. Clearly, this is a matter that falls within the autonomy of local power, and we respect that. But the fact that there are petitioners and that petition has arrived here at the Assembly is important because it allows a little recall to the history of this parking lot, and it must be remembered here. Who remembered, first of all, building this parking lot? Who remembered, firstly, to build this parking lot was the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the predecessors of the Left Block, at the time, the Policy XXI. The construction of this park was the subject of a public contest, launched by the City Hall of Lisbon, at the time when Dr. Jorge Sampaio was president of the House. And the place where they wanted to build this parking lot was in the Garden of St. Peter of Alcântara, which was a real barbarity! This barbarity was added to the impossibility of building the parking lot there. Thus, in the time when he was president of the House Dr. João Soares, what made him change the construction site of the park of the Garden of São Pedro de Alcântara to the Square of the Prince Real. at that time, the population again opposed, the IGESPAR opposed and, from the moment Dr. João Soares lost the elections, the idea of building this park was abandoned. What comes to pass is that the PS is once again presiding over the City Hall of Lisbon and immediately raises the idea of the construction of the parking lot. Let us therefore be clear: the idea of building this parking lot is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. And every time the Socialist Party presides over the House again, the idea of building this parking lot is removed from the drawer. And, Mrs Rita Rato, the Portuguese Communist Party cannot say that you always objected to the idea of building this park, because you voted in favour of this contest,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u263	... of the launch of this contest, and was with Dr. João Soares in the Chamber when they changed the location of the Park of the Garden of São Pedro de Alcântara to the Square of the Prince Real...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u264	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u265	I'm not, Mrs. Member! It is that I was there and Mrs. Deputy was not there, and I know very well what we are fighting against this parking lot that you wanted to build. So what I can say is that petitioners are absolutely right to bring this matter to the public, to this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u266	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u267	... because this demonstrates what are the two sides they have, when they rule the House and when they discuss in this House the petitions that people here bring us expressing their concerns. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-17.u268	With no further inscriptions, the assessment of petition No 457 / XII ( 4 ) is completed. ( a ) and also our agenda today. The next plenary session shall take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: election of five members to the Council of State, an effective member and an alternate member to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic and a Deputy Secretary to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic ; and under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, a thematic debate will be held, required by the Greens, on 21. The Climate Summit. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 41 minutes.]]
