ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I request the police authorities to open the galleries and inform the House and the public that the session has as its agenda the presentation and discussion of the XX Constitutional Government Programme. I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, the Secretary, to read out the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, whose opinion must be voted on to be related to the taking up of a number of Members. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion are as follows: At the meeting of the Possible Credentials Committee, held on 9 November 2015 for 14 hours, the following terms of reference and replacements were observed: ( a) Mandate appointments in accordance with Article 6. , paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 30 October 2015, including: Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party ( PSD ) : Berta Maria Correia de Almeida de Melo Cabral (Electoral Circle of the Azores ), ending Rosa Maria Brasil Dart ; Paula Maria Von Hafe Teixeira da Cruz ( Lisbon Election Circle ), stopping functions Ana Sofia Bettencourt ; António Egrajas Leitão Amaro (Viseu Electoral Circle), ending Eugénia Maria Oliveira Duarte. Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Centre — People's Party ( CDS-PP ) : Vania Carvalho Dias da Silva de Antas de Barros (Electoral Circle of Braga), ending Otilia da Conceição Ferreira Gomes. ( b) Appointment of mandates in accordance with Article 6. , paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 7 November 2015, including: Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party ( PCP ) : Artur Jorge da Silva Machado (Electoral Circle of the Port), ending Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro. ( c) Replacement of Members in accordance with Article 20. paragraph 1 ( a) of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 30 October 2015, including: Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party ( PSD ) : Fernando Mimoso Negrão (Electoral Circle of Braga ) by Maria Celeste Vila Fernandes Cardoso ; Emídio Guerreiro (Circulus Electoral de Braga ) by Miguel Adelino Pereira Peixoto ; Margarida Isabel Mano Tavares Simões Lopes (Circulo Electoral de Coimbra ) by Nuno Miguel Pestana Chaves and Castro da Encarnation ; Manuel Luís Marrecas Rodrigues (Circulo Electoral de Coimbra ) by Ana Elisabete Laborda Oliveira; Carlos Henrique da Costa Neves ( Puerto Electoral Circle ) by Leonel Fernando Pinto Coelho da Costa ; Fernando Virgílio Cabral da Cruz Macedo ( Electoral Circle of the Port ) by Maria da Conceição Alves Santos Bessa Ruão Pinto ; Pedro do Ó Barradas de Oliveira Ramos (Electoral Circle of Setúbal ) by Sonia dos Reis. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the indicated substitutes are really the non-elected candidates who should be called to the performance of their duties, considering the order of precedence of their electoral lists submitted by the alluded parties in the electoral circles, so the opinion of the Possible Credentials Committee is that suspensions and appointment are to be admitted, since legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u3	I do not think it is worth the electronic verification of the quorum because it is visible to the naked eye that we have quorum to vote on the opinion of the Possible Credentials Committee. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I'll inform you. Members whose name is included in the report and their opinion that they may take their seats in the plenary. I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to announce the legislative initiatives accepted by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u4	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Special social support programme for the third island ( ALRAA ), 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Epidemics of Dengue fever ( ALRAM ), 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Greater social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ), 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — establishes the mechanisms for temporary remuneration reductions and the conditions for their reversal by making the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity during 2016 and 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application in 2016 of tax matters contained in the law which approved the State budget for 2015. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the laws humiliating women who resort to IVG ( Revoking of Law No 134 / 2015, of 7 September, and of Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September ) ( BE), 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminating the legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. First amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( BE ), 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores the national holidays of the Implementation of the Republic on 5 October and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December ( PS ), 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restores respect for the dignity of Portuguese women and the safeguarding of their sexual and reproductive health by repealing Laws No 134 / 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015, both of 7 September ( PS ), 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil affiliation and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ), 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ), 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies 35 hours per week as a normal period of work in public service by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( CFP ), 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replaces pension supplements in enterprises in the state business sector ( CFP ), 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015, and reprises Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April ( PCP ), 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ), 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduction of packaging waste ( The Greens ), 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — preference for local food production in public canteens ( The Greens ), 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revoking Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 in order to combat illegal abortion and to respect the dignity of women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy ( The Greens ), 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector by amending Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( approves the Water Law, with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ), 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Set the maximum number of students per class ( The Greens ), 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ), 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens), 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Returns the rate of VAT in the restoration by 13 % ( add funds 3 and 3.1 to List II Annex to the Tax Code on Added Value, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ) ( The Greens ), 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replaces compulsory national holidays which have been eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the public public public transport service of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, and the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE ( PCP ) and 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the process of privatization of CP Cargo Logistics and Rail Transport of Goods, SA, repealing Decree-Law No 69 / 2015 of 6 May ( PCP ). The draft resolutions 2 / XIII ( 1 ) were also introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — On the statement of Portugal's main European commitments ( PSD / CDS-PP ), 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National Railway Plan(The Greens) and 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the privatisation process of the General Development Undertaking, SA ( EGF ) ( PCP ). It also entered into the Bureau draft law No 976 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 September, first amendment to Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April — prohibits indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of erring animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pet animals ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens ). The NAP Party — People-Animal-Nature called for the renewal of the initiative, which is a regulatory right. Mr President, none of these legislative initiatives have fallen to the committee, since they have not yet been created. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u5	Let's start the agenda now. I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to present the XX Constitutional Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: In my first speech, I would like to begin by greeting all of you and all of you. Members and in particular the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the other Bureau. To all I make sincere vows for a fruitful mandate at the service of the Portuguese. Since this House of Democracy is always a good opportunity to highlight with conviction the democratic values of respect for the difference and the contradiction underlying it, as well as the concrete exercise in it we make of the spirit of pluralism and tolerance that must accompany them. I do not know that the beginning of this new legislation is marked by decisions that break with some parliamentary conventions of these 40 years of democracy, and I do not hide, in my citizenship condition, the apprehension with which I look at the promises of new conventions that some parties want to bring to this mandate. But I would prefer to underline, even in this context, the trust that I always deserve from the larger institutions of our representative democracy and the loyal work that we should always develop in them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u7	But the House of Democracy must also be the privileged stage to ensure not only the representation and confrontation of ideas, but also the conditions of government and governance itself, bearing in mind that the separation of powers is not contradictory to the responsibility for the generation and support of government solutions. And it is important that these solutions, more than the arithmetic base to sustain governance, provide an identity, cohesive and credible basis for conforming the action of the Government, giving it legitimacy in a substantial sense, rather than merely formal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u9	It is precisely on this cohesive and credible basis that I present today before Parliament as the first head of the XX Constitutional Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Government Programme has its own political identity, which emerges from the suffrage that took place on 4 October and from respect for popular support that the electoral programme of the winning coalition that this Government has gathered. It's only natural that this is how it is. We know that the relative majority achieved in the elections is not, by itself, enough to make up for all the choices that the government's action must understand. But it would be fraudulent that, because of this democratic contingency, we had chosen to structurally change the programme with which we presented ourselves to the Portuguese. One thing is the humility with which we should look at strengthening the spirit of openness to dialogue and negotiation in order to find compromise solutions that the election results entail; something quite different would be to exchange programme and thus to disappoint and disrespect all those who in Portugal have chosen us to lead the Government of the Country—and that we would never do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As is stated in the preamble to the Government Programme, we have chosen, as it is easily understood, not to include unilaterally proposals or specific guidelines defended by other political forces, not because we are not open to debate or consider them, but because of the logical consequence that only the political forces themselves are able to assess the degree of relevance or priority that such measures or guidelines give them. The Government Programme is therefore faithful to the judgment that the Portuguese have made of the mandate of the Government that preceded it, as well as to the expectations for the future, generated by the results we jointly achieved at the end of the previous legislation. It is therefore important to remember this context of comprehensive reading to illuminate the choices we are now called upon to make. When, four years ago, I was first called to serve as Prime Minister, the country had just started a long and hard way of financial, economic and social emergency. Let me remind you here today of the words I then had the opportunity to speak before the Hemicycle in the opening of the presentation of the previous Government Programme: "The Portuguese know how heavy the current crisis is. We can see it and feel it in our family and friends who have lost their jobs, who have been forced to close their company, who cannot get funding for reasonable interest, who have stopped paying for the loan they hired to buy home. We see and feel in our fellow citizens, for whom the doors are closed and the horizons are narrow. We see and feel in Portuguese that they have to leave abroad and that they anticipate less happy days for their children. It's not easy days for those of us to live. There are deep problems that urgently demand a solution. There are old impasses that have to be overcome. There are persistent blockades that we need to overcome. Never in the democratic history of our country have we faced challenging sizes. We have no longer been able to choose between solving the short-term problems and solving the long-term problems. Today, it is clear that the time has come to attack each other. It is in this context of great uncertainty and anguish that the Government starts its duties'. Today, I remember the dramatism and the exceptionality that marked the picture of the beginning of the previous Legislation, because I find it essential to win the contrast well with the moment we live today. The difference between Portugal 2015 and 2011 is not only at the border of the bankruptcy we left behind; it is, above all, that we have collectively managed to overcome the essential of the extreme difficulties we have experienced, without ever having a prospect of the future that would guide our hope on every day of the many days of the hard struggles we have been fighting. The spirit that was at the basis of overcoming the difficulties and supplanting the sacrifices made by the Portuguese was decisive for the result that we left today. A resilient spirit of an ancient nation, which does not give up, nor is it pleasing to the problems. But also a spirit of great realism and moderation, which avoided major evils and rejected radicalisms that would have put our recovery at risk. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Today, we know that other countries, placed in the face of identical challenges and difficulties, have failed in their purposes, just because they were unable to display this resilient, realistic and moderate spirit. Today, unfortunately, they are armed with new rescue programmes and more demanding challenges. Portugal knows a very different situation today. Having begun to reverse the recession still at the beginning of 2013, since 2014 we are growing in positive ground, with recovery of investment and domestic consumption, with positive external accounts for the third consecutive year, with an exporting sector representing more than 43 % of the domestic product, with unemployment falling to levels below that reached at the beginning of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme in 2011 and, finally, with the main indicators of confidence and economic climate at its best for many years. The conditions for financing the economy, including the State, families and businesses, are consistently converging to values that, given the level of concrete risk, do not already differ significantly from those that occur in general of our European competitors. To complete this picture, it should be noted that the tendency of private and public indebtedness has been verified, and that in the case of the State we refer to a safe step out of the excessive deficit procedure ( EDP ), from negative public accounts of about 11 % in 2010 to a deficit of no more than 3 % this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u11	And I say no higher, not because here I do not want to reaffirm our conviction that we have all the conditions to record a value below 3 %, but because it is enough for me to mention the convergence of most recent estimates of many of the independent institutions that have access to our accounts. Both the Banco de Portugal, the Council of Public Finance and the UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) at the national level, or the OECD and the European Commission at the external level, present in their forecasts, or clearly admit today, the possibility that Portugal will fulfil its commitment to cease to have an excessive deficit. This result, which is within our reach, gives us an increase in credibility and a margin of flexibility in the implementation of public policies that can be very relevant at this recovery stage. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And it demonstrates that, despite the misunderstanding with which many politicians have faced, and some still view, the process of consolidation of public accounts, this process is nevertheless essential to open a time of radically different freedom of choice in its nature, although conditioned in its quantitative extension or expression. In fact, it cannot have been more meopic and unrealistic the debate that many have wanted to hold in these years about the origin of austerity and its opposition to growth policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u13	in fact, austerity was never a question of choice but, yes, a need. No economy can grow without funding and no one guarantees access to finance, and much less under minimally adequate conditions, without controlling its indebtedness. When unsustainable levels of expenditure and debt are reached, there is not only growth as there is even economic collapse and serious threat to the social state. The degree of austerity is thus determined by the concrete circumstances in which creditors assess our ability to sustain commitments and in which investors believe in the results we are achieving. To grow sustainably and end the financial dictatorship, which imposes the lack of choices, it is necessary to know how to overcome the barrier of plausibility of good public accounts, honoring commitments and payments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I know that there are those who, in order to disguise the bad choices of concession to short-term facilitation and the need to want to raise more popular support for their incomprehensible causes, have liked these years, as it seems to continue to like now, to shoot at the plan of ideological preferences the harsh measures imposed by real financial restrictions. But let us not be mistaken: there is nothing ideological in taking adjustment programs, as some of themselves know of the lesson of life by themselves;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u15	... there is everything of irresponsibility in the causes that give rise to them, and a huge difference in the impact that the credibility of policies can have on their favorable outcome. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u16	So also the degree of removal of austerity policies is neither an ideological choice nor a result of benevolent volunteers. It must correspond, as far as possible, to the possibilities of trust that we have learned to grow between partners and creditors, based on the economic recovery strategy that we have managed to implement and the prudence and respect for the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] No Government Programme worthy of that name can base its cornerstone, and even less its political justification, on the need to impose choices that threaten the recovery that the country is making, by referring to the false ideological plane that should only be equationd within the realistic conditions that we face. For this reason, we have not only refused to campaign in a kind of auction to know who removes austerity measures more quickly, as we have remained faithful to the framework we had presented in the stability programme this year, which provides for a progressive removal of these measures, in terms that are compatible with economic recovery and consolidation of public accounts and that reconcile the need for recovery of income with the real possibilities of the economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u17	The Government programme which I am presenting here clearly supports the opening up of a more rapid process, but I would like to stress the reasons why we did not advance a different programming at the beginning of the legislature. Of course, if we are growing and generating jobs, with income recovery, and without exacerbating external indebtedness, public policy choices should be subject to financial prudence in the medium and long-term horizon, so as not to run the risk of economic backwardness that threatens confidence. Given the high level of public debt, and also a step towards recognizing the status of investment recommendation by the generality of financial rating agencies, it is important that economic and financial gains be arbitrated between the need to continue indebtedness and the recovery of income. Still with a vulnerable debt level, and facing a trendyly less favourable external environment in the medium term, an option too conditioned by the needs to meet the present will have a much higher cost in the near future. For this reason, I am confident that the choices we now propose are those that most defend the Portuguese and that better protect our ability to face less favourable external contexts, as it is well possible that they will be presented sooner than later. It is in this framework that priority has been justified for early payment of debt to the International Monetary Fund, for example. in the immediate future, such payments may force us to make greater financial effort and to maintain great rigour in the consolidation process, but, in time, they guarantee us less spending on interest and more budgetary autonomy. When a government debt level exceeds 100 % of GDP, it should not be pleasing in the financial choices. It is not only respect for the rules of economic and monetary union and the budgetary treaty that imposes it, it is our national strategic interest that advises it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We will therefore be cautious in this as well as in other public matters in which the national interest recommends that a secure recovery path be built. And if, as I said, the general conditions of departure for this new mandate appear far different and better than those we found in 2011, it is also true that the vulnerabilities associated with the imbalances that have generated in the past, for many years, do not disappear through the passage of magic, nor by the will of proclamation. Therefore, one of the pillars of this Government Programme is stability. Stability in the recovery of the country and in the protection of Portuguese. The second pillar is responsibility. The responsibility with which we must face the results that we have collectively achieved and which must deserve the respect of all the Portuguese parties and politicians. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u18	But also responsibility to know how to build on these results, rather than undo what has already been done and walk back. Whether we are talking about reforms as important as those we have carried out in the areas of sovereignty, such as defence, security or justice, or in predominantly economic and social areas, such as the labour market or product markets, here including the area of regulation, privatization and concessions of enterprises or public services, as well as economic diplomacy, or in health or education, where we have made decisive progress in the sustainability of the National Health Service and in the main health indicators of the country and we have achieved relevant goals in the decline in school dropout and in the extension of compulsory education for 12 years, today it is important not to waste the work done and the effort of the Portuguese and to go beyond what we have achieved, rather than waste resources and efforts to restore what has been done. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We must therefore, as I have already mentioned in taking over the government, stabilize and monitor the structural reforms already made and start a new cycle of reforms, taking advantage of the greater flexibility that the political autonomy we have gained brings us back. After running the largest programme of structural reforms of our democracy, we need to give time to consolidate these transformations so that they can give all the fruit that is expected of them. And we will have to evaluate and do the improvements and corrections that can increase and distribute its benefits better. But we need to complete the reformist cycle in areas that require reform instruments that were not available in a context of deep crisis and budgetary adjustment or whose opportunity has given way to the urgency of more pressing priorities. First, we must highlight the question of demographics and the need to respond to the demographic backwardness that has been taking place in our country for more than three decades. The reversal of this trend is strategic and we know that it is not easy or fast. But we are aware that it is crucial to base the response on public policies of a cross-sectional and structural nature, which certainly cover issues of a sector of a markedly economic, social and cultural nature but also, in a very specific way, the question of birth—and here presupposes the need to remove obstacles to birth and the objective of building a society and a more friendly state of the children and families who support and welcome them. Secondly, and as I pointed out in the government's possession, there is a need to develop a fight without hindrance to social inequalities. There is no contradiction, as I said then, between the reduction of inequalities and the recognition of merits, we do not oppose the reduction of the gap between the richest and the poorest to the reward for work and creativity. on the contrary, it is by reconciling these designs that social justice is carried out. But we have to confront social and territorial asymmetries, often screaming, which for decades have worsened in Portugal. The inequalities resulting from unjustifiable privileges will continue to be combated, as have been the last four years. That is why I reaffirm the commitment by an economy open to everyone's participation, not just by a few.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u20	But we also want the fruits of economic growth and the growing technological possibilities to all, according to the great democratic promise of social mobility. This implies a redoubled commitment to valuing people to break the cycles of endemic poverty and to integrate everyone into the same society of opportunities. It also presupposes the transmission of real qualifications for our young people, so that they can work, find satisfaction in their work and compete in the global economy of equal value. It therefore demands a new generation of social policies, with new approaches and solutions. This is the political significance of the social development programme that we will implement and which presupposes an action to defend and strengthen the social state, as a whole of public policies and intense partnership with the entire solidarity sector integrated into the social economy. But we do not forget the reform of social security, especially when we look at public welfare systems, which require responsibility for decision-making and strong determination in building solutions that will restore confidence in our pension systems without alienating the contract of generations in which they sit and which should be preserved. in this measure, as I have repeatedly stated, it is urgent for us to understand the need to converge short-term measures, which guarantee a better and more diversified set of sources of financing for social security, with medium- and long-term solutions, which guarantee the sustainability of pensions without, as so far, the cost of taking parametric measures that translate into a simple future reduction of their value. Thirdly, we must strengthen the competitiveness of our economy as an engine for development. To this end, it is important to increase investment and productivity, based on the continued resumption of investor confidence and a policy of innovation, technology and research at the service of value creation. The greater expression of this policy has to be translated into the continuity of export growth and a reindustrialisation strategy that bets on the production of marketable goods, bringing an increasingly open and able economy to dispute the global market. For this reason it is also crucial that the balance in people's return and purchasing power should be given priority, whose growth space should be related to value incorporation and progress in productivity, expanded by the growth of more skilled employment and the generation of wealth. Fourthly, we will have to start a new phase of administrative modernization. We want to remove the remaining obstacles to citizens, entrepreneurs and innovators. Deburocratizing and decentralizing will be the guiding principles to take further the simplification, transparency and efficiency of public institutions. We must recognise that there are structures, practices and procedures that are no longer in line with the new times, so its systematic review requires itself to leave nothing and no procedure to reassess in its justification or alternative. With the support of technologies and new ideas, we want to make life easier for entrepreneurs and not penalize them. We want to speed up investments, and do not delay them. As I mentioned in the government's possession, it is the citizen who must be at the centre of public policies and it is the State who must be organized according to the citizen. In short, we want to put the State at the service of the citizens, not the citizens at the service of the State. The third pillar of the Government Programme is the compromise. Commitment to the project of building an open and cosmopolitan society, based on values of solidarity and prosperity, which inform a social market economy based on the entrepreneurial initiative of people and on the regulatory capacity that combats unjustified privileges and promotes competition. I also commit to the deepening of a European and Atlantic Portugal, whether as an active and respected partner within the European Union and a founding member and participant in the Economic and Monetary Union and the euro, whether as a committed actor and with history in transatlantic relations, both within NATO and in the dimension of openness to the world that the Atlantic window has always represented for the Portuguese. This compromise pillar, I am sure, meets the deep aspirations of the Portuguese generality and fully reflects the outcome of last October's elections, since the Members elected by the partisan forces that traditionally identify themselves with these strategic objectives mean a greater majority, certainly more than any other geometry that can now be announced. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Moreover, the period now beginning, following the close of the difficult Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and in conjunction with the consolidation of economic and social recovery, should deserve a special spirit of commitment between the European matrix forces, who know how critical it is for Portuguese to make good use of caution in compliance with the rules and ensure a strong reputation between European and international partners to generate confidence and consistency in the return of investment and employment. In fact, the greater effort to overcome wills now required of us to give irreversible impetus to national recovery and to defeat fatalism and old fears has such a remarkable nature as other landmark historical moments of our collective life, such as the struggle for political, social and economic democracy or entry into the European Union. And being this a relevant historical time, therefore a time of challenge for all and for each, everyone who lives in this historical perspective must be required to have a special responsibility and commitment capacity, increased capacity in relation to other times and other electoral frameworks characterized by greater normality. in these terms, the choice given to us in this crucial time is clear. The choice between the path of secure and gradual reforms, of a European matrix, is based on a democratic representation of the world and on the combination of the responsibility of individuals and institutions, where they ensure the central role not only of the partisan forces but also of the organizations of social dialogue and institutions of social solidarity; and the other way, of an immediate and unrealistic political programme, based on the desire to return to the idea of omnipresentity of the State and an illiberal and anti-global representation of the world, and which does not guarantee the path followed in the last 30 years with regard to our European consensus, before compromising it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u22	... since a programme like this could hardly be seen as a threat to the normalization of our public accounts and to the progress that in the economy and in society will be linked to that standardization. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Our choice is clear and simple enough not to require laborious or contorted explanations for the Portuguese to understand it. In fact, it seems very clear that the choice made by the Portuguese leaves little doubt as to the way they want to go, and it is not those who, like us, identify themselves with it and respect this will that those who have to explain themselves better at this time when the Government Programme is discussed, a programme that fulfils the mandate received from the Portuguese and which reflects their wishes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u23	We are also at a crucial stage when politicians can begin to rebuild the relationship of trust with citizens, or, on the contrary, they can undo an irreversible blow in that relationship. in this sense, it assumes an incalculable critical value the fidelity to the sense of vote of the Portuguese, as well as the acceptance of the rules and conventions of our democracy, built over 40 years of common path that was not always easy and that was even intense in real counterdemocratic challenges. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are thus at this crucial stage in which it is due to demonstrate that politicians have learned from the mistakes of the past, and are not available to commit them again shortly after their consumption — mistakes that are always the Portuguese to pay with difficulties and frustration of their expectations. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u24	I do not understand, of course, that even before this Government Programme was presented, several forces with parliamentary representation announced their wish to come to an inviolable conclusion, presenting motions for rejection. It is certainly not due to any exercise of programmatic discretion that this intent proclaimed can only imply a previous choice, as radical as possible, within the formal framework of democratic functioning. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u25	Discussing the Government's programme in this regard, it is the very governmental solution that is being discussed today and tomorrow in this Parliament. I know that for many, this discussion is a great waste of time. Interestingly, within those who publicly claimed against the possession of this XX Constitutional Government by it to represent such a waste of time, all those who only yesterday were supposed to be able to find an alternative to this Programme and this Government, whose political terms, it seems, will only be available after the conclusion of this debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I therefore do not lose the opportunity to say that, for me, it will never be a waste of time to express the popular choice made in elections and translated into a government will which is assumed here with consistency and dignity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On every occasion, the representatives of the people can decide and choose in a more different sense than the people did in the elections, but it will never be a waste of time to show respect for this popular choice and to assume, with transparency and without any subterfuge, the responsibility to exercise different choices, basing them and supporting them in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u27	As is stated in the programme I have now presented, I reaffirm that the Government is aware that the Portuguese voted for stability, responsibility and commitment between the political forces that defend Portugal's continuity in the European Union and in the euro, that they want for Portugal a model of society based on the dignity of the person, a social market economy and the guarantee of sustainability and valorization of its resources and territory. And this is a programme that reconciles ambition and realism. A consistent Programme for Legislation, which leaves behind the emergency situation in which the country has met and which advances with caution and security in the progressive removal of the most restrictive character measures and points to sustained recovery of income and economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Like all political agents, I will also assume my responsibilities. I take responsibility for a positive policy, at the service of Portuguese, for the recovery of the country's economy and national credibility. I take the responsibility not to cooperate and even to oppose a negative policy, of the ruin of Portugal, in which Portuguese are seen as mere instruments of political play of power. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is now up to everyone in this House of Democracy to assume their political and democratic responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u28	Mr Prime Minister, as President of the Assembly of the Republic and on behalf of the newly elected Bureau, I would like to thank you for your greeting. As you know, in the presentation of the Government Programme, Mr. Prime Minister could use as much time as he wanted. We will move to the stage of requests for clarification and their answers and, as time has been defined for each party, which will be discounted, there will be a normal tolerance by the Bureau. Anyway, I ask you to be as rigorous as possible. To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u29	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u30	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u31	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u32	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u33	Mr President, since, by tradition and convention, registrations to make requests for clarification are made during the initial intervention of the Prime Minister, I would like to ask the Bureau about which Mr. Members who have signed up to request clarification from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u34	I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to reply to Mr Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u35	Mr President, you have signed up to request clarification from the Prime Minister. Deputies Pedro Nuno Santos, of PS, Luís Montenegro, of PSD, Catarina Martins, of the Block of Left, Nuno Magalhães, of the CDS-PP, Jerome of Sousa, of the PCP, Heloísa Apollonia, of Os Verdes, and André Silva, of the PAN. The Members are also registered. Deputies Paulo Trigo Pereira, of the PS, Carlos Abreu Amorim, of the PSD, Jorge Duarte Costa, of the Block of Left, Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, Paula Santos, of the PCP, of the Heloísa Apollonia, of the Os Verdes, Fernando Rocha Andrade, of the PS, Teresa Leal Coelho, of the PSD, Joana Mortagua, of the Block of Left, Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP, Antonio Filipe, of the PCP, Paula Vitorino, of the PS, Hugo Lopes Soares, of the PSD, Pedro Soares, of the Block of Left, and, and eventually, Ana Catarina Mendes, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u36	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u37	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u38	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u40	I would like to ask the Bureau to know, moreover, whether Mr António Costa is registered for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u41	The honourable Member has appealed to the Bureau, having made a request to know the name of all the Members. Members who are registered to request clarification, request that which has been dealt with, and I cannot therefore admit that I use the floor, since it is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u42	Mr President, then it is clear that Mr António Costa resigns from asking for any clarifications during this debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u43	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u44	Mr President, I would like to pay special tribute to Mr President, and I am very pleased to receive the floor from you, and to congratulate Mr Prime Minister, all the members of the Government and all the Members of all the boards wishing them a good legislature. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the Government programme was not structurally different from the PSD/CDS coalition electoral programme. It wasn't supposed to be, it wasn't even demanding. That is not even the point. It is important to evaluate not only the similarities but the distance that separates the PS electoral programme from the PSD/CDS Government Programme. contrary to what many said after October 4, our programs are really very different and we all know they are. There is a majority in this Parliament who defends the maintenance of Portugal in the European Union, the maintenance of Portugal in the euro, the participation of Portugal in the European project and the Socialist Party is in that majority. But these are of the few similarities we have. It is that even about Europe our views are different. The PS does not accept the European Union as it is, nor does it accept economic and monetary union as it is. We want the European Union to be able to evolve to meet the needs of the European people. Today it is not just a matter of defending Europe in Portugal, but above all a matter of defending Portugal in Europe, and that is not done with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also about public policies for economic development that we are far from each other. unlike the PSD / CDS coalition, which understands wage devaluation as a fundamental instrument to increase the competitiveness and development of our economy, the PS wants an economy capable of paying better wages, and this, unlike what has been done in recent years, is done only by investing in science, research, the qualification of young people and adults, in the production of knowledge and its transfer to the economy. They are two different ways of seeing economic policy, and this is a great distance that separates us. But there is another majority in this Parliament: the majority who defends a public social state, universal and tends to be free of charge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is even the greatest achievement of the history of social democracy. The PS did not abandon this consensus, it did not withdraw from the centre. The PSD decided to withdraw from this consensus, from the great realization of social democracy, the greatest historical realization of social democracy. The year 2014 was the record year in private health insurance sales, the year records in commercial terms for private health care providers. This result is not alien to the brutal increase in moderate rates for the middle Portuguese class. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moderate rates that have ceased to be moderators and that have become an exclusion instrument that has pushed thousands of middle-class Portuguese out of the system because, with wages of €900 and 1000, they pay today in public hospitals moderate rates that in some cases can be higher than those paid in private hospitals, whether with ADSE, or with private health insurance. But also in relation to public school, after having witnessed a degradation of the school, the increase in the number of students per class, the reduction of the coverage of extracurricular activities, we saw the strengthening of association contracts with private and cooperative schools in areas where there was a public offer to operate below their capacity. It is a waste of resources only justified with the liberal agenda that has been presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The same is true of the social model, the care model, which preferred to replace social benefits with social support, as is the case with the social canteens, which replaced the cut in social income of insertion to many families. It is a clear choice of social model that separates us. It is not the cheapest social model, it is not even more universal or more transparent, nor responds equally to all Portuguese. The Socialist Party does not want hospitals of lower quality or low quality schools for the poorest, nor a poor social security for the poorest. The Socialist Party defends a quality social state, of all people. The middle class is at stake when the social state is called into question, and that is what has happened in recent years. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is neither the troika nor the Memorandum that justify the liberal project that has been implemented, because the troika is no longer here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u45	Thanks to whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u46	... not the Memorandum either, but the liberal project continues to be part of the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, after having lost the majority support of the Portuguese population and not having the majority of parliamentary support, how would you consider implementing your liberal project? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u47	Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your words. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u48	Mr President, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, I sincerely believe that our election campaign is already over. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] For that reason, I may be a little bit drier in the answer I want to give, without failing to respond to the essentials of what you have asked. The honourable Member has chosen two examples to mark the supposed withdrawal from a centrist policy, so let us call it, on the part of the Government which I have chaired over the past four years. He referred to association contracts and moderate rates for, in the social area, exemplifying the way in which the government has moved away from the political centre. in the two examples he cited, I see I am compelled to conclude otherwise, because today we have more citizens exempt from the payment of moderate fees and we spend less money than five years on contracts of association with private education. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It seems to me, in the two unfortunate examples he cited, to throw down his argument a little bit. I would like to say to the honourable Member very directly that the majority of Europe is not a majority at all, it is indeed a larger majority and, within that majority, by his words today, the Socialist Party has considered - least relevant. It is much more important, listening to Mr Deputies, and not only to list a set of quick-term-oriented measures and, in a way, to push more populists that I understand today can guide the Socialist Party more. But I want to tell Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, all Members of the Socialist Party and the Secretary-General of his party, who is sitting here, that by rejecting the major majority, which is the European majority, truly, it is the Socialist Party that is moving away from the political centre, which is radicalizing its position and which is at risk... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... our consistent recovery efforts. I am also responding to the final question which you have asked me, although amputated by the qualification you wanted to add, I believe, for rhetorical purposes. We know that we have won the elections with a relative majority, but we have won them! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u49	I believe that there is reasonable importance in this finding. The fact that we have won without changing the anti-demagogic and realistic approach, which we have continued in the years of difficulties, and that we have implemented a programme of great difficulty over these years only makes it worth the fact that we have won the elections and have not lost them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP laughs.]] I would also like to tell the honourable Member that, after four years of opposition full of concessions to facilitation and unrealism, after changing the leader of your party, who had gained little by little the European elections,... [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u50	... and that after searching, every day, to show that the great difference would be in the amplitude of the majority result that they would achieve in the elections, it is almost painful to see the exercise that they have been doing, and that today they have repeated, to explain that we have moved away from the center and that therefore we have been penalized by the Portuguese and the socialists have been suffocated by merit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I therefore say, Mr President, that, after having a relative majority, the Government could not fail to strengthen its terms of dialogue and negotiation, because this position also existed in previous years. And it is right here in Parliament that this negotiation should take place. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u51	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor to request clarification, and I would like to congratulate him for being re-elected as leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u52	Thank you, Mr. President, for your respect. Mr Prime Minister, the presentation of the Government's programme and its intervention here today, as Prime Minister of Portugal, are not formal, are the expression and realization in Parliament of the free and democratic will of the Portuguese people. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u53	The Portuguese people went to the polls and said, in a clear way, two things: that the way taken by the previous government should continue, although in a context of greater interparty commitment, and that Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho was the chosen of the people to be Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u54	The PS shouldn't do what he does! It's too bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u55	Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho is sitting on the government bench with full legitimacy, with the political authority that the sovereign people have assigned to him. Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho is at first glance, not because these 107 PSD and CDS Members here have chosen him, nor because Mr. President of the Republic has chosen him. Who chose it, above all, was the Portuguese, it was the people and, I repeat, in a free and democratic manner! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And Dr. António Costa, who was chosen in primary elections, such as the first and only ones, to be a candidate for prime minister — he didn't even go to be Secretary-General of the Socialist Party but, yes, to be a candidate for prime minister — he is sitting next to him, and well! , in the most representative side of the opposition, where the people also wanted it to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u56	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u57	It was the people who sat there! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The people spoke, the people chose and the people decided. And it's true: Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit won and Dr. António Costa lost. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u58	One won and the other lost and neither was for a little bit, none of the two won, or lost, for a little bit. It was a wonoff with a clear and unequivocal difference. So, Prime Minister, there is no one with more legitimacy or more democratic authority to sit there in the chair where you are.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u60	We know that the current Socialist Party and Dr. António Costa do not agree with that. We know! In fact, Dr. António Costa — I repeat, candidate for defeated Prime Minister in the polls — thinks that, making arrangements with the Left Block, with the PCP and with the Greens, can and, worse than that, thinks it should adulterate the will of the people. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u61	And you know who else makes arrangements!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u62	Mr Prime Minister, I have been in office in this Parliament for 13 years and there are 22 political functions, and I have never — and I have never — heard well — seen anyone in Portugal who would not be ashamed of wanting to rule by losing elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I have never seen, in two decades of political exercise, someone who wanted to rule by losing elections! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I have never seen anyone who wanted to overthrow the government chosen by the people even before that government started running its program. Says Dr. António Costa: "I have the same legitimacy to form a government that Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho had four years ago when he made a coalition with the CDS! ' — this is pure political and intellectual dishonesty. [[PS laughter.]] In 2011 Pedro Passos Coelho won the elections; in 2015 Antonio Costa lost them. Where is the likeness? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In 2011 the people chose Pedro Passos Coelho to be prime minister ; in 2015 the people did not choose Dr. António Costa to be prime minister. Where is the likeness? In 2011, the winning PSD made a coalition of government and parliamentary incidence with the CDS-PP ; in 2015, the PS, loser, seems to want to make three bilateral contracts with three parties. Where is the likeness? [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u63	In 2011 the electoral programs of the PSD and the CDS-PP were suffraged, were close, were even complementary, but were certainly conciliable; in 2015 the four programs that you now want to join are often antagonistic, contradictory and doubtful conciliation. Where is the likeness?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, the people expect you to rule with responsibility, with realism, with humility, but above all with respect for your will and with respect for the enormous sacrifices you have to make in recent years. The PCP, the Left Block, The Greens are, of course, respectable parties and represent political solutions, which in general these banks and the Government cannot follow, but the Socialist Party does not! We have many differences, indeed, but we have some points where compromises and conciliation are not difficult. Now, Prime Minister, why don't the Socialists, the Socialist Party today, try to do what has always been done in the history of our democracy? Oh, my God! The coexistence, such as 1983, or 1995 or even 2009 / 2011, I repeat, the coexistence, the simple coexistence and also the respect for the election results. I do not want to make it conditional, Mr Prime Minister, on the answer to this question, but I do not resist giving you here two or three lines of appreciation, which are my own. Is it because at that time — 1983, 1995 or 2009 — who won the elections was the Socialist Party and the appointed prime minister was the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! Is that why they are not able to live up to that coexistence today? Oh, my God! Are they only up to this coexistence when the Socialist Party wins elections with a relative majority and the appointed Prime Minister the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! It's a chance. Is it because Dr. António Costa's PS is different from Dr. Mário Soares' PS? Oh, my God! Or is it different from Eng.o Guterres' PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u66	Ah! Very, very!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u67	Or is it really different from Eng.o Socrates PS? Oh, my God! Is that why? Oh, my God! It's a second chance. Maybe, we have a different PS today, and we didn't know! He was even very close, from a programmatic point of view, but from the point of view of political stance and political action, it seems to be very different. It'll be a second chance. Or, then, and I see another hypothesis, which has to do with the individual characteristics of people, although we are talking about what their political action is and is in this context of political action, which is because, in fact, Dr. António Costa is very different from Prof. Carlos Mota Pinto, Prof. Rui Machete, from Dr. Mário Soares... I said « Mário Soares », but I wanted to say « Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa", was a mistake. Is Dr. António Costa also very different from Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, or even from Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite, or from Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho? Oh, my God! That must be why, because, indeed, Carlos Mota Pinto, Rui Machete, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Manuela Ferreira Leite, Pedro Passos Coelho were in the position of Dr. António Costa, but did the opposite of what Dr. António Costa wants to do to the Country. And it is thinking in the country, Mr. Prime Minister, of thinking about the effects on the lives of people, especially those who have suffered the most these years to overcome the difficulties, which I ask: what will be behind all this? What will be behind this new Socialist Party? What will be behind this unmeasured ambition and irresponsibility of not respecting the free and democratic will of the Portuguese people? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u69	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I have no answer to your questions and I believe that who can properly answer them, surely will do so during this debate. I can only say what concerns me. I mean, if, by winning the elections, I had not taken responsibility for forming a government, I would have brought the Portuguese vote; if I had lost the elections, I would certainly not find myself sitting in the place where I am.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u70	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u71	I would also like to add that, in a democracy like ours, being in opposition is no less worthy than being in government. In fact, I hope that while I have felt here as Prime Minister for the past four years, this has been understood, because I have never stopped looking at Parliament with the respect I should deserve and all the parliamentary parties with the same consideration. We can, of course, have very different opinions about things and often have even irreconcilable opinions. in society we do not all have to agree and we do not all have to agree on the same things. It is true that I am still a little strange today that, in cross-cutting matters, there are sometimes those who persistently steal this more consensual result. I know that there are other people who have very positive expectations about how in the coming years these parties can develop their political action, putting themselves more at the heart of party consensus than they have done so far. It is only for me to note, and I note that sometimes there are issues that should not merit a great discussion and that sometimes they seem to be founded on reservations of an ideological nature which are inexhaustible. A short time ago, when I presented the Government Programme, I referred to one of them: the question of austerity, as an ideological option. There are still those who repeat today, in a way that seems completely strange to me, that it is painful for the country to apply austerity measures, as if someone disagrees with the penoness of restrictive measures, as if someone could by ideology profess the idea that he should rule democratically, imposing restrictions, which are not necessary for people, as if for a certain pleasure or cruelty to impose restrictions and difficulties on our fellow citizens. There are really those who are convinced of this, but I think, however, that this has not happened over these years in a mask, a mask because it intends to distort the correct understanding of phenomena. We all understand very well when the money is finished! We all understand very well, all those who had to take on government responsibilities, what needs to be done to respond to such a dramatic situation, but, of course, there is still anyone who persists in not having those responsibilities—at least, that is what is announced, that there is still someone who does not have the prospect of ensuring those responsibilities. But as it is also announced that the alternative policies are shared, which are obviously based on abundance, here we will be to observe the consistency of these options and, more than that, the realism of these assertions, and in this, Mr Deputy, in this respect, no matter how optimistic I am, I have a lot of difficulty in circumventing reality. In fact, our exercise over the past four years has been exactly the opposite, it has always been to confront our problems and to respond to our difficulties without ever circumventing the restrictions that are presented to us. Policies, therefore, must respond to reality, is not the reality that must conform to our conceptions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u72	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have indeed a strange debate today...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u74	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u75	... because we are debating a government programme that, before it was, was no longer! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The rejection is announced and Mr. Prime Minister will soon be gone! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[You're talking about it again!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u76	But this fact should not distance us from the debate of the Programme that brings us here today, because it is in this Programme, in this Programme that went to the polls and that was also the Programme of the impoverishment of our country for four years, which is founded on the most absolute need for a change in Portugal, a change to which we will give body, because the change was required in the polls. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u77	If today PSD and CDS do not have enough Members and Members to pass the Programme, it is because the voters have withdrawn this confidence from you in the elections on 4 October. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They are not political players,... [[Don't!?...]] [[Don't!?...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u78	... is democracy working! [[All right!]] [[Yeah, yeah!]] [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u79	It's democracy working! And it was democracy that rejected this programme, which the Assembly of the Republic will now reject as well. And what does this program have? Let us look at the right-wing programme, its priorities and the right-wing response to the priorities it sets out. The first priority of the Programme is the demographic challenge. After the government has sent everything and everyone, after 0, 5 million people of active age have been expelled from this country, the right says that the challenge is demography. So, what do you propose? Employment? Oh, my God! Salaries? Oh, my God! Conditions for people to live in Portugal, building their future here? Oh, my God! Don't! We look at the Program and it is a kind of mix of themes between tax benefits, which only take advantage of families with higher income, the ridiculous VEM program (Emigrant Entrepreneurship Valorization) and then even new ways to get people over 70 years old to work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u80	After priority of demography comes a second extraordinary priority in the Program, which is to value people. On the right, who called the Portuguese folds,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... now he says he wants to value them. It is a kind of bouquet of flowers in the way of an apology, because then, when we read the Program, we ask: what is this to value? Oh, my God! Well, to value, apparently, is training and education. Great! That's a good deal! But what about concrete measures? When we look at the measures of the Programme, what they say is: schools and universities — if they can get funding by themselves, they can arrange,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...because public investment in education, culture and science doesn't even see it. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u81	To the right, the program of valuing people for education is kind of a challenge to self-help, in the midst of points that allow more public money to finance private schools, while the public school continues to define. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We will then be on the third priority of this Government Programme. Mr. Prime Minister, I like to read your documents carefully, as you know, so I will not fail to mention them all. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The third priority is, see, defend and revitalize the social state. And when we read this way as the right one now wants to revitalize the social state, in fact, what we find is the creation of a parallel state with contractualization with the private of everything, from day care to day care, from diagnosis to treatment, that is, a gigantic transfer of public resources to private hands, with the State resigning itself from all its functions and with the creation of a huge client network of IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity) and private business of health. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The way the right looks at social protection and the fight against poverty is to do these essential functions of the private business state to make living on account of public money that does not have public scrutiny or public responsibilities. When we look at the Government Programme, what we see is that it is neither a government programme nor a government, it is in fact a sales programme and this is a business centre. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is because, when we come to priority over the economy and competitiveness, what we realize is that this government, after privatizing everything, from energy to airports, or now speeding up the privatization of all public transport to, after all, not content, sell to the roads and railways. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u82	What this government wants to do is sell all parts of this country, all that was built by public investment, by the social state, by the effort of those who work in this country. And, of course, as when it comes to competitiveness, they were rescued from the trash of bad ideas the conciliatory regime, as one says: "Good, good and competitive, competitive, is the country in which wages and rights tend to zero! »,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... exactly the same thing that has caused the last four years to drop the average salary... [[That's for the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u83	... in 300 euros and have ended the collective contract in Portugal. [[All right!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u84	Don't you like to hear about the Program itself? Oh, my God! Look, nobody here wanted to talk about the program, I'm talking about it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy! Have some calm, so we can talk about what we've been brought here! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] When we look at the other priorities of the Programme, there we truly have the black humor: it is the responsible state; close to people; friend of the economy; ensuring sustainability; deepening the rule of law; and affirming Portugal in the world. This was written by the Government that did no more than be a good student in Berlin, by the Government that failed to make any State budget respecting the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u85	... by the government that tripled the debt, by the government that ended 2014 with the same deficit that existed in 2011, by the government that made child poverty remain in numbers of the last century and made GDP shrink for two decades. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u86	He tells us right that his commitment to the country is the compromise for two legislatures: in the first legislature, he responded to the national emergency; in the second, he would create the instruments of the prosperous future. Now, in the first legislature everyone already knows what they did PSD and CDS :... [[We got it! We got it!]] [[We got it! We got it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u87	... have not responded to the national emergency,... [[Don't you...?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u88	... created, yes, the social emergency of poverty in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And in the second legislature what they propose is to turn all the functions of the State into business — it is the prosperity of financial parasitism with the public record to feed private businesses at the expense of the humiliation of a people and the subjugation of a country. Most Portuguese noticed this program and rejected it, defeated it in the polls and that is why there are today conditions for an alternative... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...that crosses the cycle of impoverishment, which is the only thing you know. But the question I have for you, Dr. Pedro Steps Rabbit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u89	Mr. Prime Minister Steps Rabbit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u90	... is the following: will this programme for the government also be the programme of the opposition? You know, I have memory! [[Doesn't look like it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u91	And I remember that in 2011 there was a Pedro Passos Coelho in opposition to cuts in wages and increases in taxes. Am I going to have the pleasure of finding him again? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u93	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am very grateful for your speech and for the questions you have raised. As I listened to the honourable Member, she was growing in me the curiosity to know the terms of the political agreement they had reached with the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is true, because the Portuguese generality, I believe, has not yet fully understood who catechized who. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] This is because, apparently, there is a great expectation on the side of the Socialist Party to end old walls, but it has not yet been realized who jumped the wall, if the wall no longer exists, the imaginary has passed and what are the relative positions that each one occupies. But I'm sure our curiosity will be satisfied. In any case, I cannot help but point out that the speech that Mrs Deputies is keeping here leaves me more and more convinced that the Left Block has changed little in its position, and therefore this should leave us some clue on what has really happened with the wall that has been transposed. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I would like to tell the honourable Member that I deeply disagree with your assessment of the past four years and I would like to tell you, Mrs Deputy, that what happened was nothing like that, that was nothing you described here. What happened in the last four years was that the country was on the brink of bankruptcy, Mrs. Nothing else! That's all. The countries, when they stand on the edge of bankruptcy, lose access to finance, stop having money and stay with politicians able to make very short speeches, but what is really needed is to respond to emergencies. And, calculate Mrs. Member, responding to emergencies without money is really a major complication. This is all that has happened, Mrs Deputies, all the more has been transformations that, we believe, are useful to Portuguese society and that, yes, it is true, they translate a substantial thought about the economy, society and even democracy that has separated us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u95	But that, Mrs Deputies, is not surprising that it can be evident. The structural reforms, which we have initiated and which are in progress, are precisely those that will allow the country, after consecutive suffrage, to feed the hope of being able to leave behind, as I said there, the fatalism of poverty and the recurrence of error and irresponsibility in order to gain the status of more autonomy and political maturity that the country deserves and that the Portuguese deserve. We can disagree with this concept of democracy, we can disagree with this conception of the social market economy, we can disagree with it all, and we will certainly disagree, but, Mrs Deputy, ascribe to me the intention of wanting to turn into business and into unclear things what is, in essence, the contractualization we should do with civil society, Mrs Deputy, I have to disagree with you, I do not see where the business is. [[BE's laughs.]] on the contrary, Mrs Deputies, I would very much like you to leave your radical and organic conceptions of what is the omnipresent role of the State in recognizing the initiative of citizens who should not be limited to the public initiative. It is true, Mrs. Member, that we all have the right to a social life that is not controlled by the State, which is provided by the State,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... as defined by the Assembly of the Republic or by political leaders. And this, Mrs. Member, is still radically separating us. It is true, and, therefore, it seems to me - and I hope not to have a hasty conclusion - that the spell begins to turn against the sorcerer and who truly thinks that he will change the country and the Portuguese is the Left Block. But you believe that what happens in the debate of this Government Programme and in the vote on the motions for rejection of the Government Programme will change your conception of the country and society less than you would like. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u96	To request clarification, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor, who also fulfils his re-election as leader of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u97	I begin by thanking Mr President for the congratulations he has given me and for complimenting Mr Prime Minister and Mr Vice-First Minister for something very simple: you have won the elections. They had 37, 5 %, did not have 10 %, had confidence that others did not have and speak as if they had confidence, which clearly did not. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] More: you have won the elections after the Memorandum to which others have led us, a very difficult mandate, where many sacrifices have been demanded, which we have never denied, without any tolerance, without any help, I would even say, despite and despite the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u99	And yet the Portuguese gave their confidence to Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Vice-First Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u101	Mr Prime Minister, wishing and convinced that he would not have gone to seek the Socialist Party's Government's waste box programme, there is a fact in this debate, concerning the Socialist Party, which seems to me to be highlighting, and that is the fact that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Mr Antonio Costa, had once again been completely stolen from the debate. He came in quietly. Let us see, Mr. Prime Minister, if you are not saving for tomorrow, for the closing period, when there are no more questions,... [[Sure!]] [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u102	... when there are no further requests for clarification, when it can no longer be confronted. What a democratic frontality, Prime Minister! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u103	It's very brave!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u104	With regard to what was said by the Left Block Coordinator... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. João Oliveira, it is not the shouts that win elections, it is the vote of the people. You should know that if you want to make the agreements you say you are doing. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, keeping my speech, I mean that Mrs. Catarina Martins, of the rest of the leaders of the troika of an announced government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u105	The leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u106	Maybe the leader, they tell me here,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u107	Sometimes! You've got days!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u108	... says that the agreements between the government and the IPSS, which directly support 0, 5 million missing Portuguese, are a business center. This is an offense and an insult to everyone who's there, to everyone who's working there. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] What will the Socialist Party think, Prime Minister, of all this? Mrs Catarina Martins said: "Well, I don't know if this will be the government program or the opposition program! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” for our part, we are clear: it is the Government's programme that went to vote and won. Mrs Catarina Martins, there is a question you have to answer in these two days: where will you be? in the government or in the opposition? [[The Vice Prime Minister's laughter, Paulo Portas.]] It's just that, by the way, by what you say, you're afraid of being in opposition and saying you want to go to the government. But the programme is not known and will certainly not want to be accused of having the political cowardice of not taking responsibility for being a minister of the government of the agreement it has reached. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, that is what is at stake in this debate: the formation of the government that the Portuguese legitimately chose to rule the country, the government that legitimately won the elections. And that has always been the case in 40 years of democracy. In almost 40 years of constitutional system, never a government out of popular vote had its programme rejected in the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, it is important to set here clearly the portrait that the Portuguese made of the country when they went to vote and what they said or wanted to say. of the analysis made, there was certainly a desire to respect the many sacrifices in what has been done and above all the desire to continue the path we have made with dialogue, with commitment but, of course, with stability and confidence. Mr. Prime Minister, with us today Portugal's economic growth is greater than the euro area; with the troika on the left we never know, nor does it seem that we have come to know. The confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs rose to levels in 2001 or 2008 ; with the troika on the left we do not know and we continue without knowing. The inevitable unemployment, in view of the terrible ransom we have had, is true, has risen to the unacceptable 17, 5 %, but the last known figure is today 11, 9 %; we do not know with the troika on the left what may happen. The investment has risen 5 %; we do not know, nor will we know, because they are silent, what will happen to the troika on the left. Exports rose 4, 9 % in goods until October this year, today represent 43 % of GDP at constant prices, but when we took possession, exports represented 28, 5 %; with the troika on the left we do not know what is going to happen. Mr Prime Minister, therefore, confirms that, if we keep this path, that the Portuguese have chosen, of stability, continuity and responsibility, we can grow even more than 1 6 % for the year, which is currently planned? Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I must say that, for us, it is clear that we would continue this path of recovery: by the will of the people, things would be better; by the will of the people, sacrifices would not be wasted; by the will of the people, we will not have new ransoms. And therefore I would like to say to you on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group that we will strongly support this Government's Programme and will always be available to ensure the necessary commitment and political stability. We assume today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have always assumed in the past is our responsibility. They could have those who lost the elections say the same thing, or could those who just want to overthrow a government but who have no political courage to participate in it say the same thing. It makes all the difference, the Portuguese will judge. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u109	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u110	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, we have been showing a level of recovery of the activity that has been maintained within what the government forecasts have been made for either a year or as regards the Stability Programme. We know that there have been some adjustments on the part of other institutions, small adjustments, which, essentially, do not change the frame of reference. That is, after we have grown about 0, 9 % in 2014, everything points out that we can grow about 1, 6 % this year and that this growth can be consolidated next year depending on its expansion, or not, on conditions of an external nature that are always adjustable depending on the date on which the forecasts are published. For example, the International Monetary Fund has recently brought new prospects for growth, more modest prospects, both for the euro area and for the global economy. And it is very natural that, in this context, the prospects of an increasingly open economy and internationalisation may be varied. However, we admit that, apart from this exogenous picture, let us say that we start off, as it turns out, our ability to grow, as it is dependent on the effort of internal consolidation and the growth that we have seen from the investment, as well as the recovery of domestic consumption, can sustain growth greater than 1, 6 % in 2016. Now, Mr President, the forecasts are associated with the political choices and macroeconomic choices that are made. I do not hesitate to say that at this time we will certainly be paying a certain price for the uncertainty surrounding the end of this debate and what may eventually happen following the end of this debate. And that is understandable, so I have always said that it is good for us to clarify our intentions as clearly as possible. in this measure, I believe that today I can say that, if you gain membership ideas, as I have come to observe, to read and to hear, that involve a certain degradation of the budgetary consolidation path that we have been practicing and that involve a much faster process of income recovery than that which can be sustained by the growth of the economy, there will be, by investors and our creditors, a retreat that will ultimately penalise the conditions of growth of the Portuguese economy. And I also believe that it will be the Portuguese themselves to dictate a part of this lower growth perspective, if this kind of solution is to be reasonably expected, plausibly. People today are suspicious because they know, from experience made and lived, what it took in the past to want to take longer steps than leg and volunteers, including pre-election volunteers. So today, they retreat when they hear about such processes. Therefore, I would not be afraid that people, even though they are promising more income, could keep them cautiously in order to avoid being subjected to greater restrictions in the future. Mr Nuno Magalhães, in order to answer your question completely, I must say that the results we see in the recovery of our economy to date, in view of the strategy that has been designed and which has been recognised with merit both by the financial agents, both by the economic agents and by the Portuguese, give us every opportunity to continue to grow. If others are the choices, if others are the criteria, of course the perspectives will have to adapt to the policy choices that have been made. But I would like to conclude by saying the following: my perspective, and with this I think I also fully respond to Mrs Catarina Martins, is not that of the worst, the better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u112	My perspective is always to be able to protect and increase the positive results that we have been achieving. And this is true being in government or opposition. I hope, therefore, that it will be possible for the country not to disrupt the results that have been achieved and that it can, responsibly, consolidate them and expand them in the future, because we have conditions for this. But, Mr President, for these conditions to remain, they must have political and, in particular, parliamentary translation. That is why this debate is not replaceable. Finally, Mr President, by congratulating Mr Nuno Magalhães, as Mr Luís Montenegro, who recently spoke, congratulated them on their election to the leadership of their parliamentary groups, wishing them a very successful mandate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u113	To request clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, following the elections on 4 October and bearing in mind its results, which confirmed the loss of the absolute majority of the PSD / CDS coalition, we stated that the need for political and institutional consequences of this essential change is required. Elections aimed at electing 230 Members and not that lie of electing a prime minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u116	The election of 230 Members, in accordance with the order of each parliamentary group, would determine the political solutions and, of course, the policy itself exercised by the Assembly of the Republic. But we said more! We said that the election results expressed not only the defeat of the government but also its policy and reflected a unequivocal demand for change by the Portuguese, including the 700 000 voters who, four years ago, had voted in the PSD/CDS and ceased to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u117	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u118	A requirement which placed the imperative need to ensure the interruption of the course pursued by the former Government, of economic, social and civilizational retrogression, that this Government is an assumed heir and successor. Mr. Prime Minister, they made a campaign to say: "It is not necessary to ruin what has already been done". What do you mean? Oh, my God! You are responsible for ruining the lives and rights of millions of Portuguese people, with cuts in wages, in reforms. They have ruined the lives of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers. They faced the rights of justice officers, security forces, military and men and women of science, research and culture. Where are we right now? We are in a national situation marked by dramatic levels of unemployment and closure of thousands of enterprises, by dramatic levels of precariousness, poverty, increasing social inequalities, denial of millions of Portuguese living conditions, the forced use of immigration by 0, 5 million Portuguese, a brutal increase — the greatest ever — of labour taxes and the reduction of the income and social rights of the people, including health, education and social security, with the enormous burden suffered by social benefits. In reading its Programme, there are great proclamations, grafted by circumstances and the foreseeable fate and outcome of this Programme, such as the one in Chapter I: 'Response to the Demographic Challenge' — I believe it also referred to this. Answer? Oh, my God! Answer how, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! So it wasn't the government that pushed 0, 5 million Portuguese, in its overwhelming young majority, out of the country, that is, the bulk of the country's human potential, capable of giving another speed to demography? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u120	He now speaks in the appreciation of the professionals of education, when he has walked four years to infernify his lives, his careers, his placement! He now comes to speak about defending and revitalizing the social state, but then he writes and proposes freedom of access to health, freedom of choice of the educational project, that is, minimum services for the poor and public money to finance the education and health of the richest. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u121	In fact, they reinscribe the reinforcement of the wager in reindustrialisation, holding back that it was your government that liquidated the country's first industrial company, Cimpor, and that it ended with PT, made in fanics and currently worth 10 kings of cod honey!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u123	The government is proposing to implement an agenda for trade, services and restoration, in a discussion that has been going on for four years, misleading traditional trade. More than that, we could say! Colorful, with some proclamations—it is true! But this one, more than that, is worthy to be praised for his coherence. This programme has as its perspective the continuity and intensification of the policy that aggravated exploitation and impoverishment, which deepened the injustices and inequalities, which accentuated the degradation of the democratic regime and national subordination and dependence, which, after so many sacrifices and so many impoverished lives, has not resolved any of the structural problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u125	...the only thing that guaranteed were the profits, dividends, the privileges of the economic and financial groups. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u126	No, Mr. Prime Minister, it was nothing for cruelty, or evil faith, or revenge! It wasn't, no! It was by political choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u128	And, of course, it does not break free from this contradiction: as long as it continues to strengthen fortunes, increase profits and dividends in the hands of a few, the poor will be more and more as a result of this political option it has made for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u130	That is why, if you are offended when you talk about public money and private business, I remember a concrete example: we, for three times — repeat, for three times — in the debates we have held, put the issue of putting more than EUR 1000 million in charge of BANIF. Mr. Prime Minister said to us: "It is guaranteed, because they will pay! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The truth is they only paid the first benefit! What if this had happened to a Portuguese who was late for two or three months' rent of the house? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u132	Woe to a Portugueseman who has a debt, who soon comes the tax to cover it! This is the difference! Therefore, it has an ideological character, of course, but it is the political option that results from the country's situation. Therefore, Prime Minister, the reality does not play with that « country of wonders» that he wanted to announce; rather, it confirms the many and strong reasons for the PSD government not to take up office. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u133	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, we know the arguments of the Portuguese Communist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u135	And I'm yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u136	... as for what was the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, which the country had to comply with, either as for what was its conception of democracy and economics. And, as I repeat here several times, respecting the different points of view, we really do not agree with these perspectives. But, as I do not like to be mistaken about what, I repeat, I am confident, each one of us defend, that, with regard to the financial system, it is not the government's option to nationalize the bank and, to this extent, to socialize private losses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u137	They've nationalized!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u138	What did you do to Banif? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u139	It's not our option! It has already been done in the past, and has even been done by governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u140	Answer on the BANIF!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u141	But, Mr President, as we have seen over the past four years, I would like to make a thousand times public resources available for the appropriate capitalisation of the banks with relevance, waiting for them to be able to enable their adjustment programmes and to reimburse the State, rather than simply taking all the debt and responsibility of banks that have not been managed with caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u142	They bought Banif's capital!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u143	It is two pesos and two measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u144	So, honourable Member, to me, the option is clear. The honourable Member does not mind imposing a major loss on the country, provided that the State owns the banks, because it has a project for how these banks and the financial system should operate in the economy. And so it is not important to impose this cost on Portuguese, however it is a communist government to guide the decisions of the bank in the economy. [[PCP protests.]] But since I don't want to send the banks, I just want the banks to comply with the rules and the laws... [[Protests and laughter of PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] ... in particular on regulatory matters, I would prefer to defend the stability of banks by avoiding their nationalisation. That's the big difference. It believed, moreover, that this difference was also essential between the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party, but we will obviously see in the coming days if this remains. Therefore, my priorities are known and do not have much justification. But Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, a short time ago, had the parliamentary leader of the Portuguese Communist Party in the European Parliament asserting, as the second major priority of the Portuguese communists, to prepare the exit of Portugal from the euro, both voluntarily and in a forced way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u145	Did you surprise him? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u146	And you know that it is not, to me, a surprise that the Portuguese Communist Party wants to force Portugal out of the euro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u147	But that's a surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u148	Despite the reluctance with which you have always sought to answer my concrete questions about "are you defending an exit from Portugal from the euro? I do not know if you remember, during many sessions, the honourable Member was resisting that conclusion. She finally assumed, of course... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u149	That conclusion ended up, of course, in the position taken by the European Members of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u151	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u152	I don't think it's false, do I, sir? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u153	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u154	I am also paying attention to the action of the Portuguese Communists. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u155	Read better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u156	And I confess, Mr President, that here I am beginning to have difficulty identifying a famous statement of yours to refer to the Socialist Party, when I said « they are all flour from the same bag». [[Now!...]] [[Now!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u157	I mean, deep down, deep down, they're all the same. The Portuguese Communist Party is different and it is because, for example, it has a lot of clarity in the position it defends. But, Mr President, I think there is some contradiction here, at least until I know the content of the political agreement that will be revealed, because I have heard the honourable Member clearly say that what mattered was not places in the government, what matters are the policies advocated. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Therefore, if the measures and policies will finally take the Socialist Party out of the same sack of flour, I will look forward with great curiosity to other conclusions that can be applied not only to the exit of Portugal from the euro but to other important economic policies which the Portuguese Communist Party has been defending, radically, in Portugal, and which have not been shared by the Socialist Party. [[Now!...]] [[Now!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u158	It's gonna be a surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u159	But we will, of course, look forward to this development with great curiosity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u160	What about the nationalization of BANIF?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u161	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u162	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to congratulate you, as well as the other members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is from the public knowledge that Mr. Prime Minister does not like the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u163	... and that this has also extended to PSD and CDS. But — and regret to say - Mr Prime Minister, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is worth more than the will of Mr Prime Minister. And what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says is that the legislative elections serve to elect 230 Members to the Assembly of the Republic and not a Prime Minister. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] The Constitution is very clear in this respect: it is then, according to the elections, its result and its translation into mandates, which is composed by the Portuguese Parliament. This parliamentary composition, as well as the correlation of forces within the Assembly of the Republic, the representativeness of each political party, is fundamental to everything else that runs from here. And within the rest that runs here includes the formation of a government. [[Well, well...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u164	That is how, Mr. Prime Minister, the Constitution determines that it is not so little that the party that gets more votes is the one that forms government. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u165	That is not what the Constitution says; what the Constitution says is that it is according to the election results, and therefore taking into account the correlation of forces in Parliament, that everything else is going on. That's what I said, Mr. Deputies. So, what happened in these elections? In this case, there was a particular coalition that committed itself to the continuity of policies – PSD / CDS. Other political forces have committed themselves to the electors with a change of policy; if the Prime Minister tells the Members who are present in the Assembly of the Republic, he will realize that this coalition that has committed to continuity has lost the absolute majority in Parliament and has fewer Members today than all the political forces who have committed to the change of policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u166	It's just making accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u167	And if everyone has a word, it is indeed a change of policy that will happen in Portugal. This was the result of the elections, whether the Prime Minister likes it or not. What is it now that Mr Prime Minister — and it is also important to translate — is proposed before the Portuguese with this continuity? I find it strange that Mr. Prime Minister continues to speak without looking at the hardness of Portuguese reality. Mr Prime Minister can make an intervention without saying that today there are more poor people in Portugal ; that today there is more inequality in Portugal ; that there has been a brutal emigration in Portugal ; that the new job that is created today is completely precarious. The Prime Minister refuses to admit that there is funding for private education to the detriment of investment in public education and that privatisations have read the country, as also stated by the Court of Auditors. Also in the area of the environment, privatization was a motto, for example, in the area of waste, and it is not clear your intention to not privatize water. in the transport sector, which is so fundamental to combating climate change, your intention is only privatization— look at what they have built in this government programme! You want to flood the country of eucalyptus. Is that how you want to protect our forest? He did not laugh, Mr Prime Minister, because that was the legislation they had enacted for the country in the previous term. You are talking about economic growth without saying that this economic growth is illusory about what Mr. Prime Minister says, because it stems primarily from the low oil price and therefore takes into account external factors and not the mobilization of the country for this economic growth. You have unleashed the public administration of human resources and have therefore weakened the public services provided to the Portuguese. This is the continuity of the model that you intend to practice in Portugal through the continuation of your policies. But it was to this, Prime Minister, that the Portuguese said they did not want, because they withdrew the absolute majority and therefore said 'no' to this continuity, they said: 'we do not want these policies anymore! This reading must be done, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u168	Madam Member, I appreciate your conclusion. It has already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u169	I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: I believe that a great step forward for the Prime Minister to come to Parliament to say that the Government's programmes must be strengthened by the electoral programmes, when his 2011 programme was not, when this, which he is presenting today, is not, and essentially, when in the previous elections, in 2011, in the previous election campaign, the Prime Minister promised the Portuguese, already knowing the text of the troika programme, which would not increase taxes and would not cut wages but, when he arrived at the government, did exactly the opposite. Is the word valid or not, Prime Minister? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u170	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u171	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I do not understand that the honourable Member understands that I have any difficulty in seeing the outcome of the elections and in realizing that the coalition did not have an absolute majority. That is evidence, Mrs. Member. But I would like to remind the honourable Member that the Constitution does not say that it can only be ruled by an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u172	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u173	For no, Mrs Deputies, and that is why the tradition that has prevailed in the country so far—and it is not anything, could have been exceptional for some time—was that of the parties that won the elections to form government. That's right, Mrs. Member, that's how it was! That is why all those who stand for a different solution today waste so much time explaining themselves and wanting to "throw the face" of the government that the absolute majority is missing. Madam Member, the lack of an absolute majority has never prescribed a directive of the electorate for those who win the non-governmental elections. This has never happened and I therefore do not understand why the honourable Member is wasting so much time on these considerations. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Deputy here made a portrait of the country very similar to that of other Mrs. Members of both the Left and the Portuguese Communist Party did and could reply to the arguments, of course, but I can tell the honourable Member that no, it is not true that employment is completely precarious: that no, we did not privatize water; that no, we did not flood the country of eucalyptus,... [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u174	... that growth is not illusory, it has even been sustained; that all the difficulties we have experienced, whether in employment or in income, are a very difficult expression of the difficult circumstances that the country has gone through; and that, fortunately, Mrs Deputy, after completing the Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance and having completed the legislature, I can say, without any irony, that we have managed that the country has not failed essentially, because the Portuguese have not failed essentially, nor the Government which I have led. That was the reason why we won the elections and did not lose them. [[All right!]] [[We have won!?...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u175	The honourable Member, of course, will consider that the Greens must have more reason in the elections, and that the Communist Party has gained more reason. Why? Because he won the elections, he was the most chosen party by the Portuguese;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u176	And the CDS was? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u177	...the Left Block was the most chosen party by the Portuguese; the Socialist Party was the most chosen party by the Portuguese... it wasn't, Mrs. Deputy, that's the truth. And, as it has not been, let me tell you, as I said here recently, that it is worth winning the elections after we have been running such a difficult programme. I would therefore like to assure you that the programme we have for the next four years is not just a formulation of a desire for more recovery of the economy, for more employment. No, it is agreed by the results we have already achieved and that is why today we can ambition to grow more and the country can ambition more than it had to ambitious in 2011. It wasn't because we failed, it was because we were successful. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u178	What's the CDS worth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u179	To ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, to whom I wish the greatest happiness, in his first intervention in the Plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u180	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My time is short but I cannot fail to express my hopes for success in all the work that will be done here, in this Parliament, and that, above all, they can go against the dignity of the democratic values and the imperative of change that the Portuguese have been asking for. Mr Prime Minister, following the analysis of the Government Programme, it is pleased that the NAP finds that animal protection has deserved further attention. however, this program is vast and has raised to us several questions that we would like to see clarified. First of all, at present, about one million Portuguese are permanently excluded from the labour market. We know that structural and technological unemployment is a serious problem that has come to rest. in this sense, the NAP would like to ask the Government how they intend to solve this new social problem, since today the income for most Portuguese is obtained by labour force. Second: in the area of health, we question what this government thinks about the inclusion of non-conventional therapies in the National Health Service. Thirdly, when we read the chapter on the water sector, we cannot see whether it will be kept in the public or private sphere. Fourth: knowing that about 50 % of the family aggregates include a pet and that many of them are discussing with serious financial difficulties bearing the indispensable medical-veterinary treatments, does the Prime Minister consider that these expenses may be deductible within IRS? Fifth: as regards the review of the animal's legal status, it is important to know whether animals will finally cease to be legally "things" and whether this review will cover all animals or only a few. Sixth : in order to protect children from the violence of bullomachia, as enshrined in the report of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, of January 2014 to Portugal, what legislative measures does the Portuguese Government plan to adopt in order to comply with the Convention? Seventh: currently, 17 countries and four European regions have banned the cultivation of genetically modified maize by concluding that the disadvantages associated with this cultivation outweigh the advantages. Why has Portugal not yet banned the cultivation of GMOs and when does it plan to prohibit it? Eighth and last question: in the context of climate change, page 104 of the Programme, which advocates a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we would like to confirm with the Government whether any measures are planned to reduce methane emissions, a gas of very high environmental impact, mainly produced by the livestock industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u181	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u182	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I welcome you - especially for your election, since this is the first time that a party with the matrix of itss can have parliamentary seats. I hope that this election, in a way, can help to ensure that both issues relating to the protection of animals and the environment can be strengthened and a broader understanding can be obtained on the part of all parties. Whatever the case, these are not new issues in our debate and are certainly not new issues in the action of the government. He noted that the measures relating to animal protection had improved its reference status in the Government Programme. I also believe that in recent years we have taken important steps to ensure that, at various levels, what is related to the protection of animals and, therefore, with their own well-being, has evolved in a positive way. He asked, in particular, whether or not we had the possibility, with regard to animals, and in particular pet animals, to extend their deductibility expenditure to the IRS. He asks whether we are open to animals from a legislative point of view that they can no longer be understood as 'things' and, with regard to the bull machia, whether or not we are prepared to deal with this matter differently from the past. On the issue of IRS, I would like to tell you that today, following the reforms of the IRS that have been implemented, there are cross-sectional family expenses that are deductible for the purposes of IRS. Objectively, anyone who may have more expenditure on their pets may also include them under that specific heading. There is no treatment similar to the one that is followed with respect to people. This seems very clear to me and I do not believe that we have, in the conditions in which we are presented, any space for, in the coming years, we can view things differently in this particular way. But, as I say, in spending, in family expenses, in IRS, there is already room for all global spending to find comfort here and I am sure those who have the most expenses with pets can deduct these expenses here. For our part, I do not see any drawback in making a discussion that can lead to recognition of the status of animals that can treat them in a more favourable way. They obviously do not have the same equivalence with a person, but they cannot also be treated as things. There are legislative solutions that have already been adopted in other countries that can inspire us in this area. Our concern has been, in general, not only on the question of bull machia but on all aspects involving animals, to ensure the improvement of their welfare conditions. Therefore we are fully open to discussing solutions of these with legislative impact in Parliament. With regard to the issues which Mr has raised regarding climate change, our goals, which coincide with European targets, are very clear and, in essence, affect greenhouse gas emissions. As you know, they usually concentrate on CO2, although methane may also have similar consequences. We believe that what we have been promoting, even using European funds for the transformation and use of livestock production that can be used for the energy production of many of the wastes of our own productions, is a good way to tackle this problem. Finally, Mr President, structural and technological unemployment has come to remain. It is true that structural unemployment has been rising and not only in Portugal. In Portugal, however, the increase in structural unemployment is before the implementation of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and therefore the major difficulties that have been caused by the financial collapse in which the country has plunged. It is also true that technological innovation in many countries considered developed countries, where relocation phenomena, at first, and difficulty in attracting new investments competitively, in the second time, have been producing an increase in unemployment. I believe that the answer adopted in our Programme is the one that has been continued in recent years and that it will now find more room to continue in the following years. We need to increase productivity and do so, of course, with the use of technological tools as well. It is not incompatible to see the increase in employment and the quality of wealth generated by that employment in a knowledge economy with the expansion of employment. However, it is not compatible with all the most traditional forms of employment and, often, with the so-called more traditional professions, which tend to give in to technological change. But this is something that education policy, among other public policies, should reflect, in order to provide citizens with different choices in their training or conversion. It seems to me from this point of view that the path that has been going on and that at the level of basic and secondary education has been designing a dual learning system in which the most technological pathways have come to have a greater diffusion, can contribute to reducing the incidence of technological unemployment in our country as well. I think I have generally responded to the questions which you have raised, but I would like to convey to you our openness so that, in these debates, we can always find new ideas and different approaches. But as I always say, we are always subject to the rule of reality and the rule of restrictions it offers us. Within these restrictions, I think we should do everything we can to improve the civilizational prospects offered not only to animals but also to people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u183	We thus conclude the point on our agenda, presented by the Prime Minister of the Government of the XX Programme, with the first requests for clarification of each party and/or parliamentary group. We shall then proceed to a second stage of the debate. The Bureau records 15 entries of Members to request clarification, and Mr Prime Minister will answer each group of four questions. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u184	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating you, as well as all the Members here present, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government. Before we begin, I wanted to say something that, for us who are usually out of this Chamber, is more than obvious, but perhaps for some Members it is not. Each of us must dignify this House of Democracy and respect the opinion, whatever it may be, of our colleagues or political opponents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u185	We must re-qualify politics and democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to make another note of the interventions that have been made, before putting two concrete questions. It is worth repeating the fundamental for Portuguese society to realize what has happened. This government has all the legitimacy of sitting there on that bench because it won the elections. [[Ah!]] [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u186	That is why he was in power by the President of the Republic. There is only one small problem: he had only a minority of Members. in the same way that this government has all the legitimacy of sitting there, there is a majority of Members who have all the legitimacy to put down this government tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall quickly follow up on the questions I wanted to put to Mr Prime Minister. The first is whether Mr. Prime Minister agrees or does not agree that the main indicator of public finances health in a country is the ratio of public debt to GDP. If you agree, as I think you will agree, you recognise that there has been a significant increase in this ratio since the beginning of the legislature to this day. [[PSD protests.]] Why has this government not even worked to update the GDP debt ratio data in relation to all the projections, not only ours, of the Socialist Party, but also of international institutions? Do you still think or assume that the New Bank has been sold? Have you had the revenue of these assets and financial liabilities to reduce that ratio? I don't understand! We have, in fact, a management government — and it is good to understand this — that did not update the debt ratio in GDP, which did not circulate the preparation of the State budget at this time, we did not send to Brussels what we should have sent, which was a draft of the State budget, and we are not fulfilling, we are violating the European Semester. Would you like to know why? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u187	For a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u188	Mr President, I welcome Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-First Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, and I begin by recalling here, in the House, a poster that the main opposition party placed on the streets in the last election campaign and said: « It is your vote that decides! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And so it was! That is why you and the Prime Minister have voted. Government members are sitting there because this is the legitimate government of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u189	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on having presented here a responsible, consistent and consistent Government programme, and not a confused amalgam, a sort of synthesis of the opposites, the sole objective of which would be the instrumentalization of power by power at any cost. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u190	The Program that was presented has as a fundamental concern not to miss out on the opportunity that has been created in recent years with so much effort by the Portuguese. And this bench, the PSD bench, and also the CDS bench, I'm sure, will not allow this opportunity to be broken by the lightness of those who only have the ambition for power. The signs of this path that has been difficult to travel are in sight and I would also like to congratulate Mr. Prime Minister, because still one of the signs came to the public today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u191	It's a sign of forbidden sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u192	The increase in exports by 3, 2 % and the decrease in imports by 0, 3 %. It is one of the many signs that almost every day, in the economic, financial and social area, proves that the path we choose and the path we want to continue is the right path to lead Portugal to the success that we all want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u193	And I also wanted to congratulate not only Mr. Prime Minister and his government but all those who, in this House, like freedom and put freedom above all. It is that dates, ephemerals and celebrations are not innocent, have meaning. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And we, from the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, give great value to these dates. Today is November 9, 26 years ago the Berlin Wall has fallen, which has fallen the wall of shame, and this is a border for which even today, 26 years later, it is important to know which side we are on in the history of freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Here, we have no doubt, but we have started to have them in relation to other benches, which have set off on this path of freedom which they have also defended until recently. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say the following: it is no longer present — it is by chance, but a little more'camouflaged' back there — Dr. António Costa and it is not worth hiding that the great political sign of this day is the absence, so far, of Dr. António Costa in the debate. It's an insurgent absence and silence. It is not possible for Dr. António Costa to have gone through statements, in press conferences, in interviews on prime time television and today, here, in this debate, in this House, in this House, in front of the Government, before the Prime Minister, before the elected Members of the Nation, if he steals from the debate, if he steals from what he comes and hides behind the Members of his parliamentary leadership, he hides behind Mrs. Catarina Martins and Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa. It's not a good start. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr António Costa, come to the debate. Come to the democratic game. That's what we're waiting for. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u194	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, of BE. Welcome to this House, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u195	Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. This is the debate of the Government's programme and I think the best way to understand why this government is going to last two days is to debate its programme. I want to talk about one of the important topics of the Government Programme, which is privatization. This was the government that transformed into business and private income a substantial part of what was left of the State's business sector and, still unsatisfied, the government has introduced, in this programme which now presents, the privatization of railways and roads, making a mention—and that is what I wanted to say — at the end of the process and the completion of the privatisation of TAP — a success said the Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, who is well received in his new functions, now that the Bank of Portugal has hired him. All the reasons for the privatisation of TAP have failed. The ideological anger, the advantage of private management is seen when the winner of this privatization is the leader of a Brazilian group that has solved the difficulties that live in Brazil in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u196	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u197	As regards TAP's debt, the second argument is that the same buyer is unable to solve and deal with the company's debt problems, asking for help from the state, and it is clear that it is only with the « hot shores» of this protection that this private initiative can make itself to the large public companies that are being sold.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u199	The third argument is that of European pressure. We were told that TAP had to be privatized because it required Europe, and today we know that there has been no contact, even with the European Commission with the Portuguese Government and that this was a completely unfounded claim — see the words of the Commissioner of the sector. The regulation itself, the National Civil Aviation Authority, confirms that it is David Neeleman who controls the winning consortium of the privatization of TAP, this sick privatization still has another difficulty, which is precisely the extra-European origin of the economic group that will control the privatized TAP. Therefore, it is necessary to know whether the new statutes, which will have to be regulated, will remain until after the sale of the company and whether the Government is once again playing in the accomplished fact and exceeding all the rules for a business that will place the private property and the benefit of an economic group on the public responsibility and on the public service. The result of this privatisation process is a more fragile, unstable and less capable TAP, and this legacy is the legacy of your government, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho. Fortunately, it will not be up to you to solve the imbroglio and the difficulties that have been created in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u200	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u201	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, when he took up his duties in the previous government he received a deficit of more than 10 %, in fact, was even more than 11 %. And the truth is that we have succeeded — and when I say we have succeeded, I mean that it was all of us, the Portuguese people — with great effort and great sacrifice, to lower this deficit. The truth is that we have managed to bring it down to a value of not more than 3 % for the first time in many years. This is recognised not only by several Portuguese institutions, such as UTAO or Banco de Portugal or the Council of Public Finance, but also by international institutions, such as the European Commission or OECD. The importance of this fact is obvious, it is not merely a theoretical or ideological issue. It is that this has three direct consequences. The first is to allow the gradual and sustained recovery of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u203	The second is that this can improve the rating of the Republic, which is also not a theoretical issue, is a matter of being able to have more investment than creating jobs. Thirdly, we will have access to flexibility measures. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, there are some rumors, quite serious, in which we certainly do not want to believe, that they are starting to run: it is by chance those gentlemen who are preparing to form a government, which is illegitimate—and it is good to say so—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u204	Legitimate? Oh, my God! That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u205	... prepare themselves also (that is what you hear) to artificially increase the 2015 deficit, in several ways: anticipating reimbursements, anticipating 2016 invoices or even, purely and simply ordering services that, in the short time remaining, spend more than would be necessary. Mr. Prime Minister, this would be a petty act difficult to qualify, but more, it would be radically against what is the national interest of Portugal. Therefore, there is a very concrete and very clear question that needs to stay here and that I ask the Prime Minister to answer: we are very short of the end of the year and to close 2015. With the numbers available now and which are certainly sufficient, can this government, which is the legitimate government, ensure that in 2015 the deficit will have a value of 3 % or less? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u206	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u207	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I also like to respect the views of others and, in particular, I like to discuss with as much property as our arguments allow. He is an economist, he is even Professor of Economics and has therefore written widely about what is needed to finance the Portuguese economy, what was left of the budget area by a deficit of almost 11 % in 2010 and the impossibility of using financial markets without credible adjustment and consolidation policies. Therefore, better than many others in this Chamber, he knows why the public debt ratio in Portugal has increased over the past four years. Moreover, he has explained it in the public and very pedagogical interpretation that he has done. We may not agree with all the arguments, but I am not unjust in conceiving that it twists them so that it can reach the conclusions it has previously chosen, it certainly concludes in view of the facts. And the facts, as I believe I have already had occasion, even in debate with Dr. António Costa, to remember are that since 2005 the public debt ratio has had two different trends: it has increased by almost 40 percentage points from 2005 to 2011, particularly in the last three years of this cycle, and has increased less than half that value in the four years of the adjustment process. The reasons behind the increase in this debt ratio in both periods could not be more obvious and he knows them: during the first period, he increased due to increasing primary deficits, i.e. increases in public expenditure not financed by taxes. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] And despite this, there was an increase in the denominator, i.e. the growth of the economy, which did not occur in recession, which exacerbates the public debt ratio. Therefore, you know very well that the reason why he increased during the first period is a negative reason and that arises from the public choices that have been made — due to deficits with certainty, and I know that the accounting perimeter of the public accounts has also been increased, but that was also later, and therefore, Mr President, you know that it is no excuse, because in both periods there was an increase in the accounting perimeter. But what matters is that in the second period, despite the difficulties, we managed to lower what was the discretionary contribution to the increase in the ratio resulting from the public expenditure that was made and, therefore, from the primary deficit, which has been decreasing, while in the first period the primary deficit increased discriminarily by choosing the decision-makers. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that this corresponds to the question you have asked me. In fact, we have a very great need to reduce the ratio of public debt. We have done so this year and I want to say that, contrary to what Mr suggested, there has already been a first update, which took place on 30 September, with the communication, as you know, of the excessive deficit procedure, which is done by INE to Eurostat. This correction has already been made and will certainly be done by any government when presenting its State Budget for 2016 and when updating the stability program for the quadrienium in 2016. But, Mr President, we have already been reducing this ratio and we are doing so with the two favourable contributions: that of growth, therefore, that of the denominator of the ratio, and at the same time also that of numerator, insofar as we continue the process of budgetary consolidation and with less and less use of extraordinary measures, which, as you know, in the calculation of Maastricht is not accounted for. So we're doing it in a healthy way. I would say that today it is dangerous to challenge this path, because, as this ratio is still high, it would be a priority for any government with a national strategic sense that we would not waste any opportunity in the coming years to have a ratio of less than 100 %. This would put us - we would be safe from many pressures and many external fluctuations which, of course, are likely to happen and for which we should not be caught off guard. Therefore, it would be good policy and prudence — I hope you will agree with my argument — that we can apply the best of the conditions that we have before us in order to become indebted and pursue the path of budgetary consolidation, which should therefore guarantee better financing conditions, as soon as the European Central Bank no longer has the most active policy it has developed in order to combat the deflationist threat. However, the question which Mr has asked me has caused me to doubt. He asked why the Government had not yet sent the draft budget to Brussels, according to the European Semester. I believe that the honourable Member has asked me this question, knowing that what the Government has said so far remains, that is to say, the government should not make the draft budget, because that was the condition in which the government was held until this government was held. Therefore, the facts were those, and that was the public and correct justification that we gave Brussels. however, the question which you have asked me now - another one, which is to ask whether I should deduce from your question that the Socialist Party believes that this Government should, as soon as possible, refer this draft budget to Brussels, and await the answer of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u208	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u209	Mr President, I would also like to make it clear to you that you have a great, academic responsibility, even public and civic responsibility, which I would like to congratulate and acknowledge here in the discussion of these issues. I would like to ask you whether you agree with the strategy that has been defended, and it is still defended by other parties and by several members of the party itself that you represent here, that it would be a good opportunity to restructure the Portuguese debt. I believe that the way in which this action was unilaterally defended, even in a not very distant past, would benefit from a clarification from the honourable Member so that we could then measure the arguments that we have now used in these discussions for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u210	Now! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u211	I would now like to respond as quickly as possible to the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim recalled here the data that have been disclosed regarding exports. It is true, Mr President, that exports have been increasing and, from the quarterly and homologous point of view, imports have been correcting, which is important in order to ensure the continuation of an external balance of our economy. Of course, sometimes it happens that the communication treatment that is given to these phenomena is not as consistent as this with the results and therefore the idea that exports may not have increased as much as they have increased in the past may motivate the hasty conclusion that they have fallen, when in fact they have increased. I believe that in the coming years we will be able to increase our exports further and increase the export quotas of Portuguese companies, if we continue to bet, as I think we should continue to wager, to finance the export sector more adequately, the marketable sector of our economy, without which we will not be able to achieve sustainable growth in the coming years. We need to attract more external direct investment and we need to export more so that, economically, we can support a more vigorous recovery of Portuguese income. Mr Jorge Costa asked me, in essence, why the fate of TAP insists on having an important point of convergence in our Government programme, which, according to the honourable Member, will last only two days. By not agreeing exactly with that conclusion, I just mean, because you stand here in Parliament, and I wish you sincere happiness in these debates,... [[No, no! False! You've been a gentleman!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u212	It is true, Mr President, I am sorry, it is true with me, but now you have the opportunity, which we have not had in the past, of course, to be able to discuss this with me. The reason why the Government continued to privatize TAP is not just a constant imperative of the Memorandum of Understanding. It also comes from our conviction that this is the only way of power, in the context in which we move, to maintain TAP as a large Portuguese company. While the State cannot finance it and no private capital has been entered into the TAP, the TAP cannot fail to know a restructuring process, made of course in interaction with the European Commission and with the Directorate-General for Competition, which, however, we know, has rules that are observable in other countries. A short time ago, I was told to Mrs Finance Minister — drawing my attention, and well, since the 'a short time ago' referred to 7 November, it could not be any longer today — that the Estonian public airline had declared bankruptcy after the European Commission had demanded the reimbursement of what it considered unlawful State aid. We also know that the TAP can only be capitalised by the State into non-competitive rules, which would not be accepted by the European Commission, unless there were very violent restructuring processes, which I here characterized as processes that would convert the TAP, a TAP like today is, in a smaller tapestries, much smaller in its staff, in its workers, and much smaller in its operation. I do not believe that this is in the interests of the national economy, it is certainly not in the interests of the country, and that is why I sincerely hope that it will be possible to complete this privatisation process that has been initiated, that it has had a first step that has not been successful, and I would very much like this second step, this second attempt, for the benefit of the TAP and the Portuguese economy, to be successfully completed. Finally, Mrs Cecilia Meireles asks me whether I am in a position to ensure that Portugal will reach a deficit of 3 % or less this year. Madam Member, the question does not have an obvious answer. I have answered in advance, a little early on, when I said, initially, that it seemed to me that we had all the conditions to be able to complete this year with a deficit of not more than 3 %, reaffirming our conviction that it could actually be a deficit of less than 3 %. That is why they point out our data, both from public accounting, and from projections we make in national accounting. We have no reason to assume that, despite the difficulties that exist every year, of the budgetary pressures that each year exists and therefore of the choices that we have to make every year in order to achieve the objectives that are appropriate, if that is the will of the government and no surprise occurs on the side of economic activity, therefore of collecting taxes, we will have the possibility of reaching a final result that has that outline. I believe, without wishing to attribute any intention whatsoever to anyone, that it would be very worrying that any government—and this will not, of course, do so—can consider instruments that guarantee the opposite result. I don't think it would be logical or rational for anyone. I therefore hope that Portugal will be able, as it is promised, to complete this year with a deficit of not more than 3 %, and, preferably, as our expectations are, with a deficit of less than 3 %, because this will give us an increase in credibility, a very important increase in credibility, not only to better finance the Portuguese economy in the coming years but also to discuss the prospects in the coming years, which are included in the stability programme and, therefore, the need to achieve the medium-term budget objective, that is, not to have a structural deficit greater than 0,5 % in the coming years. What is planned today is that it can be achieved until 2017. There was even the prospect that it could be achieved in 2016, but the perspective, as I say, that it was contractual was that it could be achieved by 2017, and we can well, in view of what were statistical reclassifications of the GDP series that occurred, have to negotiate a different goal in the future. For that, in order not to call into question our growth, we will need to have this result, this increase in credibility that can achieve our goals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u213	It is clear that the Bureau has been very flexible, both for Mr President's speeches. Members, as for the Government and for Mr Prime Minister, because the surpluses of normal regiment times are compensated for the overall waste of time that is going to exist. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are still 11 questions for the Prime Minister to answer in groups of four. Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u214	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as far as social areas are concerned, the Programme of this Government does not bring anything new. It is limited to transposing the continuity of a policy that has deprived thousands and thousands of Portuguese of access to education, health or social support in all its fullness, as enshrined in the constitutional text. Mr Prime Minister spoke about defending the social areas, but what he really stands for is not the guarantee of social rights to Portuguese and rather private interests. This is what PSD and CDS did in the previous term, with the delivery of hospitals to mercy, or the opening of classes and educational offers in private, closing them in public school, next to. Mr Prime Minister, how can you claim to defend the social areas when the consequences of your political options contrast with that desire? in the last four years, in health, there have been more and more users to delay consultation, to abandon therapy and treatment due to economic deficiency; more than one million users have no doctor and family, although the government has promised, until the end of the term, the allocation of family physicians to all users; public health services have lost about 7500 health professionals; they have closed and reduced services and valences in primary health care and hospitals; patients with hepatitis C have not had access to the most appropriate treatment and only with a fight under dramatic conditions have achieved it; the widespread rupture of emergency services, with hours and hours of waiting, was the portrait of the de-investment and de-humanization, in which PSD and CDS left the National Health Service. in education, they were responsible for the closure of schools and for the degradation of the school park; by the expulsion of about 25,000 teachers of the educational system, by the lack of employees, psychologists and other technicians; by the denial of adequate support to thousands of students with special needs; by the segregation of thousands of students with vocational and vocational education, preventing them from accessing the highest levels of education, or by the complete devaluation of artistic education. in the social area, more than 575 000 children lost their family allowance, about 36 000 elderly people lost their support for the elderly and withdrew their social income to more than 120,000 people. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the true reality of the country, which you say is better. And this reality is the result of your options and measures. Therefore, what they bring today to the Assembly of the Republic are proposals and measures to reduce the financing of the public school and the National Health Service, while increasingly transferring the costs of health and education to families, proposals and measures with which they have sought to discredit the public school and the National Health Service, to justify their privatization; proposals and measures that integrate a political strategy to dismantle the social functions of the State and to reconfigure the State itself and proposals and measures that have not resolved the problems of the country and which only aggravate them, with more impoverishment, more injustice and more inequality. These were the proposals and measures that people rejected on the streets, in the numerous fighting actions that have taken over the past four years, but also in the polls, removing the absolute majority from the PSD and CDS coalition, and which show that this government has no conditions or political legitimacy to continue. That is what you should recognize and not insist on the same policies and measures that have infern the lives of the workers, the reformers, the Portuguese, in the Government programme that is presented today, refusing to accept that it was because of these same options that have been defeated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u215	Mr Andrade, whom I greet and whom I also wish to welcome, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u216	Mr President, thank you very much for your votes. Mr. Prime Minister, watching your exchange of impressions with Mrs. Cecilia Meireles about the eventuality of a future government to manipulate public accounts to embolden the deficit, asked me: where would anyone seek such inspiration? [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Where would it have been seen recently that a government was manipulating public accounts to give a public indicator? [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] So my first question is this: when will we have an Internet page where citizens can go to consult how much will be the 2015 deficit, day to day? But, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you above all questions about the Government Programme. The government's intention to alleviate the suffocating tax burden was announced which resulted from what was called the previous government itself'huge tax increase'. And what do we see in this government's programme? We have found that the only tax whose tax is reduced is the IRC that is paid by companies. And we found that in the IRS there is a relief of taxation resulting from the strengthening of the family quotient. However, as we all know, while trying to help families with more children, it disproportionately helps families with higher incomes, it is little for families with average incomes and nothing does for families with low incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I did not expect this excess! — the desire to study a new tax benefit is expressed. And a tax benefit for what income? For the million-dollar premiums of managers who are paid in shares of their own company. Is this the government's fiscal strategy, Prime Minister? A strategy in which the few resources intended for the tax relief of families are primarily given to the richest and in which there are no commitments or even plans to lower taxes for those with less income! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, you called for my conscience and my sense of responsibility, as well as for the other Members of this House. It has revealed, in fact, the understanding that in this House, contrary to what seems to think the parliamentary leader of your party, are not only at the will of the people of V. Exa and the Secretary-General of my party, but also the remaining 228 Members. And in this sense, Prime Minister, I must tell you that my conscience tells me, because I am also here for the so-called will of the people, that the voters, because of whose votes I am here, would not understand that it is not a betrayal that, having an alternative, I, with my vote, could enable the Programme of this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u217	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u218	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Vice-First Minister, Mr Ministers, Mr Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I begin by clarifying Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade on an issue which has been raised throughout this day several times. This is the question of the system of government in Portugal: who won the elections, who must govern. This is very clear in what has been the consolidation of the system of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And, undeniably, as the parliamentary leader of this bench has said, several relative prime ministers have won the elections. We are not surprised by the position of PS bankers, the PCP bench, including The Greens, integrated into the bench and elected within the electoral lists of the PCP,... [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] ...and still from the bench of the Left Block. I can only remember — and above all those Members who were not here in the last Parliament — that in the last Parliament, for four consecutive years, the PS Members, the Left Block Members and the PCP Members called for the resignation of a Government with an absolute majority. Therefore, the problem of these benches is a problem with democracy, it is a problem with the choice of voters. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And the choice of voters was very clear. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] All this despite the Government led by Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho to solve the most crucial problems left by the Socialist Party four years ago—and today, we do not have on this bench the former Minister Teixeira dos Santos, but we could have and, if we had, we would have had someone here who said clearly that he had no money to pay wages and pensions—for what this government did was to create conditions of fiscal consolidation, economic recovery, job creation and many other positive results that I will not state, because they have been here today, several times stated, but are denied by anyone who wants to deny reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u219	That's propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u220	However, these results are the reality that the Portuguese recognized when they wanted to elect Pedro Passos Coelho as Prime Minister of Portugal, but that you want to undo. Maybe reading very old documents of democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u221	Where did you apply?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u222	Mr. João Oliveira, perhaps it was the case to read very old documents of the implementation of the constitutional and democratic regimes, because they say, unequivocally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u223	You went to the 1820 Charter?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u224	... that the rulers are elected and their powers derive from the just consent of the governors. The gentlemen. Members of the three political parties who understood to be able to reverse what was the election result of 4 October belong to parliamentary groups, political parties which have no common denominator as regards what is the strategy of the Socialist Party for the direction of Portugal. however, they are willing to disregard everything that is the principles and what is the ideology that moves them and that leads them, as they did not long ago, to defend regimes such as North Korea,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u225	Say there it ends the Internet too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u226	... or like Cuba's one, by Fidel Castro, who are regimes on the other side of the Berlin Wall, as Carlos Abreu Amorim said. For all this, as Mário Soares said in times, we are talking about a coalition that is artificial, that will not give conditions of stability or governance. A very short time ago — and, of course, the honourable Members. Members will already have access to this information – the Commerzbank has sent a note to its customers about Portugal and has announced it publicly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u227	You have already exceeded the time available to your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u228	I will finish, Mr. President. Indeed, the Commerzbank, which considered Portugal an appeal space for investment in economic and political stability, now considers that this radical change in economic policy, as a result of its assessment of the governance programme presented by the PS, should be considered with great caution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u229	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, whom I also greet for her first intervention in the Plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, four years ago, he announced himself and presented himself as the one who came to save the country. Now he is chosen; four years ago he was the Saviour. I don't think it's gonna stay for the story like neither of us. Four years later, the national emergency became a social emergency. And the social emergency only ceased to be national for all those who were forced to leave the country, who were expelled from the country by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u232	I know that Mr. Prime Minister doesn't like the word, but the truth is this government has made an ideological attack on my generation. It is ideological to transform this generation into the most precarious, unstable and poorer generation ever. And because it's ideological and it's not conjuncural, it survived out of the troika and it stays in this Program. We find nothing contrary to this attack in this Programme, because nothing could contradict the words of the Prime Minister when he says that even more wages need to be lowered in Portugal, a very dangerous idea in a country where new contracts have an average salary of 500 €, an idea, indeed, quite radical and quite ideological. The problem with this Program is exactly this. It's more of the same. And, more than that, in this context, it is much worse. It can be read in this Programme that higher education must become viewed as an export sector. I would like you to pay a little more attention to the past, because higher education in Portugal has been nothing more than an export sector. We export nurses to England, doctors to Germany, engineers to Angola... We export skilled workers to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u233	You have already exceeded the time available to your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u234	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister asked what is the difference between 2011 and 2015. Answer : a bleeding of 400 000 people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u235	And I return the question: how many more will this program expel? If it depends on the Left Block, not one more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u236	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u237	I will finish, Mr. President. My generation, whom the government has stolen from the future, now withdraws the future from this government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u238	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u239	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Joana Mortágua to the extent that, with nuances, both brought similar questions. I would like to say, starting with Mrs. Joana Mortagua, who is far from me making any ideological attack on her generation. I assure you that there is no ideological attack on your generation. Moreover, I would like to say to you that I do not think it is necessary to pay even more for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u240	You said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u241	And I want to tell you that, in the context of social consultation, the government has even promoted the increase with the partners and therefore the update of the national minimum wage, which has been in force since 2014 and also by 2015. So, as you see, Mrs. Member, it is exactly the opposite of what you suggested. [[BE's protests.]] As regards the issue of higher export education, I believe that the expression used in the Programme should not be misleading to the honourable Member. in the same way that we record, on the export side, the tourism services that are so responsible are an important part of the production of national wealth so we also consider that our universities can increasingly welcome young people and students from other nationalities who want to make their academic journey here. And we believe that this capacity can be expanded in the future, so the growth of the economy allows us to absorb, increasingly, new opportunities for all those who seek their education in higher education. In any event, I have no doubt that this training has been important for the quality of the job it is found and for the professional valorisation it is continuing. in the same way, in the social areas, Mrs Paula Santos, we have an important result to present. I have made some repetitions in this allusion, because I think it is important to welcome the very positive aspects that we have achieved in very adverse circumstances. on the health side, Mrs Deputy, it is true that the government has failed to reach its goal for family doctors. But imagine the honourable Member that we have more than 750 000 families covered by a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u242	750,000?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u243	More than in 2010. We have more than 750 000 families covered by a family doctor. What you mean, Madam Member, that we have made progress; we have not moved back, we have moved forward. We did not make as much progress as we would like, but made incomparably progress when we took the 2010 reference. at the level of primary health care, we also have other good results, which can only be mirrored in the main health indicators of the country, which have also progressed, Mrs. And there is no reason for it to be brought into power here to also invoke these results, either in the infant mortality rate, either in the average life expectancy, at birth, or in the incidence rate of tuberculosis, and out there. They are objectively indicators that measure the success of health policies. I know we've come to that, and it's important. I would like to say to the honourable Member that I do not agree — I have already expressed this view, and I will return to it — with what I have said in respect of association contracts and classes in non-public schools, or with regard to hospitals that have been handed over to mercy. And I would like to tell the honourable Member that, with regard to hospitals that have been returned to mercy, they pursue a public interest in conditions more favourable than those that were registered when these units were delivered to the State itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And that was a precondition for closing these contracts. Therefore, the state spends less today than it spent on them and manages to provide an identical service of quality to users. Since this is done within a public policy, it takes a very great ideological radicalism to prevent the State from placing equipment, which, moreover, expropriated to its own mercys years ago, to its service and to the service of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] As for association contracts, I will say one last time — and I will not repeat: for four years before the latter government took over public spending on association contracts between 2007 and 2011 it was around EUR 900 million and it was over the past four years despite economic developments, EUR 600 million. Your accusation, Mrs Deputy, therefore, has no basis unless you consider that there should be no association contracts and that everyone should not be able to exercise their freedom of choice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, we know—and with this I end the answer to social questions—that in recent years... [[PCP protests.]] If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have a little patience to listen, I'll be happy to explain, if you don't want me not to explain. But I would like to explain, because I think that this word is necessary in order to clarify the debate. in the last four years, especially in the area of health, the large cost savings have been made precisely by imposing restrictions on payments and contracts with private individuals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The large amount of expenditure, Mrs Deputy, was made at the expense of payment to pharmaceutical companies, in medicine policy, and also to pharmaceutical companies. Mrs Deputy, a reduction in the contractualization of private services was made, therefore unfortunately, the cost of freedom of choice. I would have taken that it had not been done! At times of budgetary restraint, we must maximize the response of public institutions, and that is what we did. I hope that over the next four years we will be able to increase freedom of choice within public equipment itself and that we will not take any step back from the freedom of choice of citizens with regard to any equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u244	ADSE numbers are lying to him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u245	This is part of the Government's programme, and that is what we would like to do. Finally, I would also like to reply to Mr Andrade and Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho. to Mr Rocha Andrade, I would like to say that fiscal moderation is very clear in our commitment to the forecast contained in the Stability Programme. We must pursue a way of removal, either from the overtax of IRS, gradually throughout the legislature, how we can also create, on the side of taxpayers who have more families, regardless of their income, an additional relief with respect to IRS, through the application of the tax quotient. We also have a policy to continue to remove extraordinary and exceptional measures in the tax area, which will be done gradually throughout the legislature. The only exception affects the IRC overtax, which is not scheduled to be removed in the next four years. It is the only one which is not programmed to be reduced and which is, moreover, contained in the IRC Code as a spill. Its removal was the only extraordinary measure that was not possible in our accounts to schedule. All others have 100 % guaranteed removal during the Legislation. The fall in the IRC rate, which fortunately did not imply a reduction in revenue, remains within the perspective that the Government has always defended that this is one of the conditions—not the only one, but one of the conditions—that will boost the confidence and the most expressive return of investment. Finally, I would like to tell the honourable Member that the budget implementation data are now public in terms of public accounting. In such a way that the service of Parliament which is accompanying you is being followed up. Members and the Committee on Budgets and Finance, COFAP — UTAO — as well as the Council of Public Finance have direct access to the public accounts databases, which means that implementation in public accounts is now available on a monthly basis and therefore not handled by the Government. I believe that this responds clearly to your observation. Finally, I would like to say to Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho that the perspectives which have been presented by some institutions, by some institutes, by some banks, in particular investment, such as that mentioned by Mr Leal Coelho, are of concern to us. Even today, the data that have been released by the IGCP and which affect the CDS (credit default swaps) reveal a very pronounced extension of spreads to those of other countries. I am therefore referring to the swapcredits, which are now expanding deeply in Portugal. Now, we know that, by measuring this, the risk of public debt... it is clear that this trend does not seem to be justified today by a general enlargement of all those countries that have been accompanying us. If so, then we should have some concern with what may be at the origin of these effects. These effects also occurred today in the Lisbon Stock Exchange. I sincerely hope that this prospect will be normalised and reversed, because, of course, if it does not happen, our prospects for recovery will be difficult. But I believe — and with this I end this round of questions — that the whole government has an interest in improving the prospects for economic recovery. What not all governments have achieved is effectively implementing it. And this runs in our credit in recent years because we have not only improved our perspective on how to improve economic performance in Portugal. And this should be a good perspective for the future for those who choose as a fundamental strategy to pursue this policy of national recovery. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u246	We will enter the last round of four questions from this second stage of the first item on the agenda. The Members are still registered. Members Hélder Amaral, CDS-PP, Ana Paula Vitorino, PS, Antonio Filipe, PCP, and João Galamba, PS. First of all, Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u247	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-First Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a previous note, which has to do with Mr Rocha Andrade's speech. I know you are very upset every time we remind you of what the PS has already done to artificially increase deficits. You may be uncomfortable, but this has an advantage: the people are being warned from now on. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this government in the last four years and until March of this year has faced 1070 strike statements in the metropolitan transport of Lisbon. I repeat, Prime Minister : 1070 strike statements! This is hell for any family that has to catch the bus, train or subway. It is torture for those who have to use alternatives and organize their lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u248	Mr Prime Minister, the coalition government was the first to be able to grant the metropolitan transports of Lisbon and Porto, as in fact happens in the vast majority of Portuguese cities. One of the consequences of these concessions is that strikes, of course, remain a right, but abuse of their use will no longer be a practice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u249	All to stop the strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u250	If I may, I would like to remind you of one fact: in just six years, from 2005 to 2011, the Socialist Party increased the debt of transport companies by more than 50 %, reaching 17, 7 billion in 2011. That is, it was 100 million euros a month!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u251	And how many are there today? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u252	Mr. Prime Minister, if anyone wanted to reverse the concessions of transport, he would like you to tell the House what this means of operational deficit, which we have already resolved by chance, and the savings that would no longer be done, that is, Mr. Prime Minister, what is the value of the tax that the Portuguese will have to continue to pay to the CGTP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u253	Mrs. Ana Paula Vitorino from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u254	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at the end of four years of arrogance and fundamentalism, you are now presenting a Government Programme which is more than that. It is more than that with a language of commitment, confidence and stability. Unfortunately, Mr Prime Minister, neither you nor the other members of your bench are able to disguise the Azedum which is underlying your interventions. By speaking of confidence and commitment, I would like here to remind the Prime Minister of his behaviour and that of his Government in the matter of defending the public interest, of the State's strategic enterprises and also of privatization, in which, until the last moment, his Government can express a deep disregard for the majority of this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For four years, he privatized outside the law without even doing what the law commands, which is to define the strategic interests that need to be defended when it comes to privatization, and, in the full election campaign, he was ashamed to try to give privates, by direct adjustment of almost 900 million euros, the transports of the port. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In Lisbon, Mr Prime Minister wanted to do the same and only the Court of Auditors were able to prevent the completion of this process. Therefore, Prime Minister, confronting the lie of your speech of commitment to the truth of your practice, I cannot but ask you a few questions. The Prime Minister is perfectly aware of the position of the majority of the Portuguese and the majority of the Members of this House with regard to the process of privatisation of the TAP and knows that there are other alternatives. Mr. Prime Minister, what I would like to ask you, very directly, is whether you are going to stop this process now or whether you are going to take advantage of the last few days that you remain in the role in which you are about to complete this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding the concessions of the transports of Lisbon and Porto, I ask you the same, i.e. whether you will stop or continue with the process to reveal the thinking of the authorities and this House. Mr Prime Minister, finally, I cannot help but ask you whether this attempt of compromise, confidence and stability is achieved in the Programme which presents today, by attempting to privatize almost everything that moves, i.e. trains, river transport and everything that represents mobility in this country. And as if that did not arrive — and with « privatising» I do not mean « concessionating», because it is really selling», or doing so also with railway infrastructures and even with roads. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Prime Minister, this is the « cotton test ». Mr Prime Minister, tell us — it is the last opportunity you have to do so in this role — if you will continue this obsessive attempt to privatize everything or if you will respect the majority of this Parliament! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u255	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u256	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have heard in this debate several Members of the PSD and the CDS speak about the Government's programme, but for its part neither a word nor a word, which is nevertheless significant. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This debate on the Government Programme, which is supposed to be an initial act, is indeed a final act. This government knows that it does not respond to a programme that will not comply, it responds, before the country, by the governance that it has had over four miserable years of national life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u257	Mr, you have already exceeded the time your Parliamentary Group had.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u258	I shall now ask the question, Mr President. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and CDS simply repeat that they have won, won, won,... [[PSD protests.]] ... however, they have not been denied by us—what is not necessary—but by the election results, and will be denied by the results of the votes being held in this House. The only question I would like to ask is whether it goes through the head of the government, which is in management and whose Government Programme will be submitted to rejection motions, to sign some contract ending the TAP sales process. We would like to know if it ever happens to the head of the government to have legitimacy in carrying out this extremely serious act for national life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u259	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u260	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister comes here today with an attempt to rewrite the story again, something we already knew him, but also his own story. Apparently, taking into account his book Change and the enthusiasm with which he spent the first years of the Adjustment Programme — we all remember his statements: « it is my Programme », « it is aligned with the PSD Programme », « it is not a burden to bear» — you always considered this Adjustment Programme an opportunity to regenerate the country in accordance with your ideology. So, don't come here now to make the opposite figure, the one you carried a huge burden and for whom all this was a huge sacrifice. You can pretend now, because it gives you good luck to be like this, but we all remember your statements. Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, we all remember your statements. There's no shame in having ideology. Shame, and even a lack of political frontality, is that you have it pretending you don't have it, and that's what the Prime Minister insists on doing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister comes here to say that austerity has been imposed on him, that he did not like it. No, please do it with pleasure, and exalt with that austerity. We all remember very well that at the end of 2011 Mr. Prime Minister decided by free choice, and not by anyone, to cut half of the Christmas allowance. And why did you do it, Prime Minister? It was not for budgetary reasons, because the deficit was largely below what was required by the troika. It did so for the very simple reason that, at that time, it understood that doubling austerity and going radically to the troika was a sign of commitment and that it would, with that commitment, gain market confidence. And he won no trust! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It caused misery, unemployment and the most serious thing is that all this was unnecessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u261	Mr President, it has already exceeded the time available to the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u262	To conclude, I ask a question. Mr. Prime Minister has come to say that he does not attack the social state and that he is a social-democrat. I would like you to tell me in which tradition of social democracy is that there is the following practice: to degrade public school, to remove students from public school, to reduce the educational supply and, ultimately, to take money from public school and transfer money to private school with the increase of association contracts. In fact, he did not comply with what was stated in the Memorandum, which asked for this value to be lowered. The Prime Minister and the former Minister of Education have increased him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u263	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u264	How does degrading public school and diverting resources into private school come to say "now they compete with each other"? A degraded school will never compete with anyone and that is your responsibility. I would like to ask you what tradition of social democracy is that you find such a practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u265	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u266	Mr President, I wonder if there are no more Members registered to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u267	at this stage of presentation of the Government Programme there is no one else enrolled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u268	I had the indication that there were still others. registered Members, therefore, given the time available, I would prefer to reply together. But, of course, I will answer the last four gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. First of all, I reply to Mr Hélder Amaral, who asked a specific question concerning the process of concessions of public transport in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, also answering other questions related to that which were raised by Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino. According to the public, the concessions of the public transport service in Lisbon and Porto, including STCP, Metro do Porto, Carris and Metropolitano de Lisboa, entail a 10-year saving of around EUR 400 million for the State budget, saves this resulting from the fact that there is no longer any transfer of any subsidies to these companies operating in the public service, but there is the guarantee by the winners of the granting processes that there would be an investment which would guarantee the renewal of the fleet in the case of STCP and Caris. Since this fleet renewal would always be an important investment to support by public companies, the gain is effectively greater. And, given the specification, we have obtained the guarantee that there would be no update of the prices of these transport above the value of inflation. This means that concessionaires cannot impose tariff increases that are not directly related to the costs brought by inflation, and cannot thus charge their beneficiaries, their users any deviation from what represented the commitment to the bill of charges and those savings. The reversal of these concessions would prevent these savings from being checked in these terms and this would be a very direct consequence. Any other costs have to be equated on the basis of the legal nature of each of the proceedings. It is also known that we are still awaiting the prior visa of the Court of Auditors for one of these concessions and that it will always have to be required for the second, and that the Government would have to bear greater legal costs whether or not to honour the commitments it has made. I also reply to Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino, and do not take it wrong to do so only in relation to the question she has asked me and not to her recitals. Member of Parliament — I believe that this was clear in the intervention I have made — we will not stop the process of privatisation of the TAP as this process has been pushed down and developed not outside the law, as the honourable Member says,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u269	They didn't regulate the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u270	... but within the law, and it is in compliance with the law that, at the end of this process, in the so-called closing of the operation, the Parpublica will sign the State's responsibilities in accordance with which the State has entrusted them to him within the law. Madam Member, this is what I hope will happen, as well as the procedures for granting public transport. Mr António Filipe has asked me a question which, I believe, is answered, as you have just checked. in fact, the signing of these contracts will be made by the respective companies, be it the Parpublica, be it the Metro do Porto and the STCP, be it the company that brings together the Metropolitan of Lisbon and Carris. The question that the honourable Member has made could have a wider reach. I am replying to you, in this wider range which is not covered in the concrete question about concessions, that the powers of the management governments are widely described in the Constitutional Court's 2002 judgment and are, Mr President, much broader than you can think of at first sight. But, of course, all of them must not fail to be conditional on demonstrating the urgency of the measures that are taken and the entire management government or which are in management must not fail to observe those guiding principles. Mr Galamba made a rather hasty attempt, because the time was already short, to point out contradictions between my thought and my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u271	That's not good, but it's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u272	I am wiped out with the care that you put in the determination of possible inconsistencies or contradictions, but I want to tell you that there is no contradiction. I do not think your conclusions are correct, and I will try to tell you why. First of all, in fact—I always understood it and left it written—we needed a dimension of structural reform of the Portuguese economy that was beyond what was in the Memorandum of Understanding and that had been the practice of several governments over many years. I have always found, in the closure of the Portuguese economy, the excessive protectionism of the State, in particular exercised with many public companies, a condition of decapitalisation of the companies themselves, of impoverishment of the companies themselves and therefore of their ability to act in accordance with market rules that defend the national interest. Mr President, it is true that, in the structural dimension of economic transformation, I said - and I reaffirm - that the Assistance Programme was also an opportunity to correct aspects of the Portuguese economy that were very defective. I do not see what this has to do with austerity policies, because, as I think — I have made quite clear — austerity policies are strictly the result of what our creditors make of our intentions and of our results based on the money they are willing to give us. There is, therefore, no one who is in a situation of budgetary or financial hardship, any rule that can impose on his creditors. And what happened in 2011 should also be very clear today for the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u274	in fact, what happened was that we were only able to achieve the goal which was contracted by the Government of the Socialist Party using absolutely extraordinary measures, which would not have been accepted by our creditors if we had not added clear measures to show the Government's will to correct the path of budgetary consolidation. This was indeed necessary, because you also know that the extraordinary measures that were necessary for that year of 2011 were not repeatable for the following years. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I mean, the basis that we were leaving initially was much more fundamental than that which was stated and could only be able to achieve the goals that were contracted if the measures were greater and more ambitious than those that were originally planned. You know that, and if you don't know, I'm sorry, but it's not about now that you're going to learn. [[Rice and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] Mr. João Galamba, I would like to make a general consideration which could sum up the tone of this debate on social areas, including education, health, social security and the social state, a subject that went through many of the questions, the allegations and even the arguments. There is the persistent idea that there was a clear objective of impoverishing the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u275	And there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u276	in fact, as I have already pointed out and made it clear in many circumstances, the worst enemy of the social state is the broken state. It was noted that the Deputy Prime Minister, who is now not in the Chamber, has made numerous statements over the past few months. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] This statement is entirely true: the worst enemy of the social state is the broken state. And what we did was remove the country from bankruptcy and equip our public institutions with the means that were appropriate for the pursuit of their ends. That is why today we have hospitals and other public services more capitalized than they were in 2011, when social capital was not even subscribed to many of these entities and when the debt to suppliers over 90 days represented a very large responsibility, which was significantly reduced in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u277	Mr. Prime Minister, he has already exceeded his time, even counting on the time he was given to him by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u278	I really am concluding, Mr President. In these years we have been able to remove the social state from the emergency in which it was located. And, speaking with some irony, Mr President, what some of the Members have said. Members suggest it is more or less this: how was it possible for the social state to resist four years of policy of this government? We should really be better at bankruptcy, as in 2011 with the social state that linked us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u279	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make a statement on a vote that we have just taken, since there has been a failure and it is necessary to clarify it. You have the floor, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a correction to a report and opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials which was recently voted: when Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross took office, Mr Armando Soares and not Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, who is still in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u281	Since there is no opposition to this amendment, we consider it adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u282	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u283	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u284	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau, since we have just heard Mr Prime Minister, in this last speech, say that the concessionary and sub-concessionary transport companies will not receive from the State any more a totton.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u285	I'm asking you to be very quick.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u286	Mr President, he asked that a page of the Journal of the Republic be distributed, where one can read, in a portal, that the Sub-negotiator of the Port Metro will receive 420 million more VAT, that which was signed by the former Secretary of State for Transport and today seller of the New Bank, Sérgio Monteiro. I would like this page to be distributed because it rejects a repeated practice of the previous government in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u287	Mr. Deputies, it will be distributed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the second item on our agenda. Now, yes, it will begin the debate of the XX Constitutional Government Programme. So far, the presentation of the Programme has taken place and a number of issues have raised. For an intervention, Mr. Carlos César has the floor, whom I greet for the first time that he uses the word in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all the Members here who represent the voter decision taken on 4 October. I greet the President of the Assembly, second figure of the State, elected according to the constitutional and legislative forecast, by a majority of Members who, legitimately and freely, joined. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Parliament is the home of democracy. What happens in Parliament is the result of the popular will freely expressed by the Portuguese—that is the rule. That is precisely what was present in the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and that, during and at the end of this debate, with the same requirements of freedom, legitimacy and formality, should be present again when we discuss this government. thus, we make democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Parliament is an area of civic representation and not a field of battle, it is a space of convergence and controversy between the different political and party options, but marked by citizenship. When politicians diverge, they must not become enemies; when they win, they must not become liberal; when they lose, they do not become proscribed. We will therefore be engaged here in a culture of tolerance and mutual respect that we have seen, unfortunately frequently, perish in the most recent times and even today in this parliamentary institution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All those who are government today — everyone! — may be opposition tomorrow and others will take the reverse course. Everyone has the irrevocable obligation to live constructively. It is the interest of the Portuguese and the State that must unite us, both in the most aparable controversy, and in the most substantial. I know that all those who are here as members of the government are not for personal ambitions and interests, nor will the PS be for any other reason than wanting another policy on the side of the national interest. It's good that we understand about that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The determining position that the PS has today in the feasibility or constitution of a government does not result from an imperfect ambition, but, on the contrary, results from the new parliamentary reality, which suggested, in contrast to the previous legislation, new possibilities and new majority. It is crucial that there is a stable majority in support of the government that is constituted, with all of us speaking and on account of that and because of our decision. The PS did not seek or wish to be government at any cost. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u289	The PS wants, on the one hand, to alleviate the cost that the Portuguese economy and people have borne with excessive austerity and, on the other hand, that they do not fall on the Portuguese the costs of a government solution on the right without stability and possible parliamentary confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defeats and election victories are always ephemeral, just like the passages of the parties by the governments. However, it is true that, most of the time, the effects are prolonged and may be painful. in this case, we add to the block detected in 2011 the destruction and the many aggravated weaknesses until 2015. What now? Now is the time to recover without uncontrolled and reform without fragility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I mean, it's time to change, just like we think the Portuguese voters said. That is the mission chosen by the Socialist Party. All our citizens deserve the same respect, they have voted in the most impedent candidate on the right...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u290	Empedernate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u291	...or the most left candidate, they live in the North or South, in the Iberian border or on the coast, on the continent or at the Atlantic borders of the autonomous island regions or even abroad. As we should not separate the Portuguese as if they were enemies, neither can we identify any of those who represent them here as strangers to the democratic process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us therefore agree on what is really going on in this House: we are here, legitimately, and as our duty is, to fulfil our part in the choice of the best government for Portugal. For the acceptance of this government's investment does not exceed the value or value of tradition, but only the value of democracy, the result of which is the majority. Only the right, which is bad for democracy, does not accept the majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]] Only the right, which is bad for democracy, does not accept opposing opinions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]] And, as far as PS is concerned, we are here to tell you that our conviction is that there is better policy and government for Portugal than the policy and government that the PSD and PP propose to us in this parliamentary act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A new government. A different way. A path that will have to include humanism and social caution in fulfilling commitments such as those of the budgetary trajectory consistent with our obligations as a Member State of the European Union and the euro area. For this reason, it has been said, and rightly so, that the PS has studied and discussed, quickly and for a long time, all aspects bordering on these constraints by seeking with the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party agreements for a new direction and a new government. The same can be said of the generality of the bilateral and multilateral obligations assumed by Portugal. These commitments are not from the parties, they are from the state! And as such, and as long as they are in force, they bind us, whether we agree or not. This has been the case since April 25, from the provisional governments to now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS receives no lessons of Europeanism from anyone, including all current holders of sovereign bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u293	But the Portuguese Government will have to have an active voice in Europe, in defending the interests of our country, but also in defending the European project, not only understood in the view of a large market but also as an area of freedom, equality, reciprocity and security for all Member States and their peoples. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And today there is room in Europe for this debate to take place and for Portugal to be on the right side of the history of European construction. It is important to regain the values most acute to the European ideal which are inseparable from deepening the common political destiny, from the urgent improvement of the quality of democracy and from an understanding, solidarity and respect among all its members. All this forms and integrates, I would not say irrevocably but, in an inalienable way, the political and programmatic heritage of the PS and its future action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the presence of the election results we said that it was competing with the political training most voted on creating conditions for forming government. We said that, in case of failure of such efforts, we ourselves would seek a solution with majority support in Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u294	You didn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u295	... and that we would not leave Portugal without government or with a government without being in the fullness of its powers. We therefore set out for dialogue. If there was a brand in the interparty relationship in the last four years that divided the Portuguese opinion deeply, it was the persistent incompatibility between the PS and the right coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u297	The essential of this political confrontation involved strategic guidelines, policy measures and procedures. We did not, therefore, admire the fact that, either during the election campaign or after the elections and here they arrived, both political formations have found more reasons to distinguish themselves than to help themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u299	... and that the PSD leader himself announced, on October 14, that he no longer met with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u300	Say the rest! Say the rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u301	If the PS had won the elections, it would be here today with a programme of change — of change of policy undertaken over the past four years and not of mere reformed continuity. If I had won the elections with an absolute majority, I could not be celebrating with the same formality or discussing with the same depth with the Left Block or with the PCP a policy agreement, but I would certainly be trying to govern with a programme and content very similar to those that will be proposed to do as a result of the agreements that have finally been concluded with these parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in fact, and in recent years, the Portuguese right was reconfigured and radicalized, including in this movement the removal of PSD from its historical and essential roots and emanations. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The evidence is that he sought the CDS and not the PS before and after these elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] This right, which became a minority on 4 October, now aimed at the lack of confidence taken from it by the Portuguese, to tugging the socialists, as if it were, in the fields of indifference to poverty, inequality and the threats of unsustainability of the social state which it created. Don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] instead of the course done, what the situation requires is not the weakened, concessional and non-existent state that the PSD and the CDS-PP continue to prevail, but rather a regulatory and attentive state to the lives of citizens and businesses and the relations between social and economic. I never understood how one can live with another state, but I am sure that one cannot survive with less. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this has separated us and separated us, in a very remarkable way, from the orientation with which the PSD / PP coalition has governed and intends to continue to govern Portugal. We understand that those who, taken by the wear of dominant positions in the economy, look at the State as an important presence, but it is difficult for me to understand that the elected by the people can rule in the perspective of promoting the obsolescence of the State: it is as if politics were the one of their own destruction and as if the politician did not consider himself useful without depriving himself of his own function. The result is the de-protection of people and the abandonment of businesses, especially of the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that live and live the economy all over the country. Once again, we distance ourselves from the right coalition. The years of governance of PSD / PP were, day to day, for thousands of days, a constant route of planned weakening of public functions and services. To this end, they did not worry about a real reform of the State; it was enough for them to obstruct, cut, sell, give public functions « to the wrong and to the right ». And they did so on behalf of a'spontaneous social and economic drive', which the right defends as enough and as redemptive, but which, when unaccompanied by the action of the public authorities, we always denounce and reiterate as a generator of the greatest inequalities, desolation and poverty we face dramatically in Portugal today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is known, without doubt, and also divides us, is that the way of excessive austerity that has affected us, without remorse or mercy, has left companies and, above all, families in a state of exhaustion and insufficiency. What is also known is that inequalities and poverty are incompatible with healthy and lasting economic growth and much less stable and cohesive society. from the most conscientious entrepreneur to the humblest worker, we are sure that everyone wants more stability, more equality and more protection for people and businesses, and that, we have verified, we have not achieved it with the PSD and PP. in these four years Portugal has returned decades, particularly in the income of families, and we have lost thousands of young people to emigration. Unfortunately, we are not "on the verge of paradise" that the coalition was seeking to indicate on the eve of elections. We have aggravated public debt and have come to records of non-compliance and insolvency of private individuals. Thousands of companies have been destroyed, leaving streets of cities and villages of closed doors, houses for sale without buyers or at the mercy of speculators, whole families without livelihood, plagued without pain and pity, and regions in difficulty of subsistence. Rarely have you heard from the right, except at the height of electoral propaganda, the discomfort about all this, as if it were the right way or at least the normal price of your idea of growth and progress. All of this separates us from the PSD and PP. All of this calls for a new way that this programme does not approach. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We had a government that tried to govern in a disturbing and even provocative experimentalism: sometimes outside the law, challenging the Constitutional Court; others, stealing from a culture of dialogue with the parties, with the social partners, regions, entrepreneurship and citizens. It is necessary to return to government the meaning of its harmonious coexistence with the legal and constitutional order and its sense of sharing with Portugal as a whole. The government multiplied the poor and destroyed the middle classes, weakened the assistance and preventive resources, threatened the elderly, protected the children, paralyzed public investment and did not favour the private in the most important sectors for employment and growth. The PSD/PP government can now, in the cosmetics of the political moment, simulate and copy ideas, phrases or measures of the other parties, bring new clothes, even dress up using the PS wardrobe,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...but thinks, breathes and moves in the same way. They're the same to do more or less the same thing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And of the same, the PS said in election campaign that he didn't want. Of the same, he said he didn't want to. likewise, the people who voted said the same way. That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u302	This is amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us not deviate from the emergence of new challenges that represent the challenges of left-wing governance. We know that there is no social security without the positive balance of economic development; that there is no growth without competitiveness and entrepreneurship; that there is no competitiveness without innovation and differentiation; that there is no sustainability without maximum equality; that there is no national government without consideration of rules and procedures common to other areas, including the budget and the European. We know that individuals, companies, families, economic communities, cultural expressions are not preserved or strengthened without entering larger dimensions such as those in which we are inserted. We know that moderation in all aspects of life is a value. We know that there are no easy and risk-free choices. We know that reformism is an inherent position in good governance and that in democracy only good governments are lasting. We know that there are guarantees of an alternative solution of lasting government in this Parliament. We are thus sure that Portugal must not only how it can change government. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u304	Mr President, you have signed up to ask for clarification. Members Hugo Lopes Soares, PSD, and Telmo Correia, CDS-PP. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u305	Mr President, Mr César, I begin by complimenting you on your first fundamental intervention here in the Assembly of the Republic, and wish you also, in the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, the greatest happiness. I would like to ask you a question about something you have said and, I think, you have struck those who have heard you in the PSD and CDS benches or the Portuguese accompanying this debate with enormous expectation. Anyone who has heard his speech from the top of the rostrum, with all the drama that he has closed, is at this point asking himself. « But was everything so bad? If everything went so bad, how is it possible for the Portugal Front coalition to win the elections on October 4th? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] « If everything was so bad, how did most Portuguese vote on Dr. Pedro Steps Rabbit for Prime Minister? If this was all so bad, how is it that at this first discussion session of the Government's programme you have sat as a Member—and well! — of the major opposition party Dr António Costa? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is the first question I would like to put to my mind and whose answer will not only be for me, I believe that all Portuguese will expect this exercise they will seek to do. Dr. Carlos César, I also wanted to leave two points that are clear to all Portuguese. The first is that democracy is only respected when the election results are respected, and that is an unforgettable truth throughout the 41 years of our democracy. The second point that I wanted to make very clear, Dr. Carlos César, and that the Portuguese and the Portuguese, out there, all realized, is that if there were no convergence points between the PSD and CDS-PP and the Socialist Party benches, it was not due to lack of effort or commitment by the PSD or the CDS, but only for one reason: because of the anxiety, by Dr. António Costa's anxiety, wanted to get to the Prime Minister at all costs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That, Dr. Carlos César, is why the Portuguese realized on the first day why there would be no agreement between their bench and the PSD and CDS benches. It was a form of negotiations that you wanted to promote during the first few days following the legislative elections. But, Dr. Carlos César, you are right when he says that the two models presented in the election campaign are different. They're actually different. The Portuguese, at risk, chose certainty; the Portuguese, before adventurism, chose confidence; the Portuguese, before uncertainty, chose predictability, responsibility and hope. [[PS protests.]] The Portuguese know the recipe that you presented as a political proposal and which is similar to the one that made you win the elections in 2009. But the Portuguese learned and, in fact, voted in who won the elections. The question I wanted to ask you, Dr. Carlos César, is whether this sort of electoral board that you are preparing to make translates into a new slogan, into a slogan of this kind: « The defeated united will never be overcome». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u306	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that Mr César has responded together to the two requests for clarification. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u307	Mr President, Mr César, I would like to begin by congratulating you, of course, on your statement. However, I would like to say to you, on behalf of this bench, that we are not here until today to teach Europeanism to the Socialist Party, but we do not accept lessons of democracy either of you or of your new friends. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Secondly, Mr. Carlos César, I wanted to say that I would like to hear it, but I still hoped to hear the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, who would have to explain to us very much here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u309	But we already realize, Dr. António Costa, that you only want to go to the debate when there is no debate, when speaking at the end and there is no contradiction. It is a recurring attitude and it begins to be a posture of some arrogance. I remember, Dr. António Costa, from you, even as a commenter, on the SIC News, classifying the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister as the stupidest idea that has ever occurred. Therefore, it is a arrogance that does not surprise us, in fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u310	It's consistent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u311	It's consistent. Mr César said that we are here to make democracy, and I want to say yes, that we are here to make democracy. But democracy is essentially true, democracy is made and built on truth. That is why we ought to tell the truth. The first reality I wanted to face is that, in fact, the Socialist Party, which now counts so many misfortunes, first, did not assume that what was done in the last four years was the result of the state in which the PS left the country and, second, did not assume the election results. You are with a theory: « who has understood», « who has not understood», « who has won», « who has not won»... I have heard Dr. António Costa say something as extraordinary as this: « There are those who have lost and have not noticed that he has lost. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u312	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u313	Yes! And I can quote him! I don't know which country I live in, because I and everyone in Portugal realize from the first day, from the first moment, who won and who lost. Here is, in this paper, the following: Winners, and shows the portrait of Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Vice Prime Minister ; Winners, and shows the portrait of Dr. António Costa. in another newspaper: Winners, in addition to the portrait, it is true, of Deputy Catarina, are those of Passos Coelho, Paulo Portas ; Defeatados, and shows the portrait of António Costa. And this can be read in another newspaper, in another one and in another. All of them! There was no one who had any doubts. No one had any doubts in the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS laughter.]] But from there, you create a theory: "Well, it's true they won, but they had a bad result." Dr. António Costa, yesterday or yesterday, said at the meeting he had with his party the following: « They had one of the worst results of the center-right in Portugal. » And I ask you, Dr. Carlos César : and yours was good? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Wasn't yours too little? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Then they tell us: "But what we want to do now was the same as you did, it was the same as Dr. Passos Rabbit did in 2011". Only there are small differences here. First difference: the nature, history and work together that both parties had, including in the past and in relatively recent coalitions. Second difference: the electoral programmes were not only compatible as complementary. And then, a difference perhaps even smaller, a minor difference: Dr. Passos Rabbit, when he made the post-election agreement, had won the elections, while you lost and was the biggest loser on the election night. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Now, if your programs were incompatible, I ask you, Dr. Carlos César — and this is a direct question — what has changed. It wasn't the PREC because it was many years ago. The programs were incompatible not only at the time of the PREC but also on October 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u314	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u315	on October 3, the programs with which the three parties presented themselves to the elections were incompatible. What's changed? What's the change? Who capitulated it? Were you the gentlemen? Were your partners? What's changed? Tell us. We would like to know what the amendment is, which justifies this change, because, if we do not have this explanation, the idea remains that nothing has changed, this is just a desperate attempt at political survival of a leader who has been defeated in the elections. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Secondly, you said that this is between a right government or a PS government. It is not, Mr. Carlos César. We had the possibility here... It is also false when you say that what happened is a novelty, which never happened in Portugal, as Dr. António Costa said. That's not true! What always happened was the opposite: whoever won in minority had the right to govern and whoever lost had the democratic humility to respect that right to govern. Humility, Mr. Deputy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. João Galamba, speaking of humility to you is the same as speaking of Waterloo to Napoleon! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] I understand that, but it's your problem. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Democratic humility is to respect those who have won, because you exchange a solution that would be the majority, a solution that could even include the PS in the government, because that door has been opened, or at least a broad programmatic solution. You exchange that for an adventurerism, for a solution whose consequences we do not know. There is a news from today, a take of Lusa that is very clear, which says: « Central Committee approves PS government ». That is the truth and that is the reality. You have changed the solution and the majority will of the Portuguese to stand in the hands of the Central Committee or even in the mood of the Left Block. That is the truth and that is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by using your expression. Do you know what this looks like, Mr. President? It appears to be a « handling ». Do you remember when Mr. President liked to talk about handcuffs? That's what this looks like. It looks like a handcuff. And we, by now, would like to know the substance of handling, we would like to know the content of the thing. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It is because, Mr. João Oliveira, if there is agreement, the House does not know this agreement and we want to know it, because this is very important for our common future and is important for the future of the country. Mr President, what do you say about the European Semester? What do you say about the budgetary treaty, since yesterday you said the opposite? What do you say about the State budget? They tell us what the agreement says and demonstrate that it is not just a manoeuvring and an exercise of opportunism, because the Portuguese and many millions outside deserve explanations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u316	Mrs. Members, also for Mr Telmo Correia's request for clarification, the Bureau has used the same flexibility in terms of time, since it has far exceeded the normal time to ask for clarifications, but it has been discounted in the general time of its party, so there is no problem for the development of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u317	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u318	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as cheap as possible in the answers, because time is no longer abundant. First of all, I asked Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares to exempt me from the former treatment of a doctor and to adopt, in my case, the regiment treatment of a Member. Secondly, I would like to tell you that it is unfortunate that this House is being successively whipped by interventions based, essentially, on personal accusations, on contempt of persons, on accusations of cowardice, on accusations of ambition, on accusations of shamelessness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is because of these and others, and certainly not because of the speech I made in the gallery, that many Portuguese people turn off television and are disappointed with their Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u320	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u321	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we had elections last October 4. The first conclusion we have drawn is that the PSD was the most voted party. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u322	The second conclusion we have drawn is that the right coalition has had its second worst result of history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u323	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u324	The third conclusion we have drawn is that the government has lost 700 000 votes. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u325	The fourth conclusion we have drawn is that you have ceased to have a majority to constitute government alone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fifth conclusion we have drawn is that you, in order to be a government, had to make an agreement with the Socialist Party. The sixth conclusion we have drawn is that you have not been able to make an agreement with either the Socialist Party or the Left Block, nor with the PCP, nor with the ENP, and therefore are unable to govern. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The seventh conclusion we come to is that the Socialist Party has the responsibility to ensure that the country is not without government and therefore has the responsibility to take an alternative, in line with the appeals of the President of the Republic, a stable government, a consistent government and a majority government in Parliament. And that's what we're going to have in this House! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Telmo Correia, the consistency of this solution must certainly be tested in the discussion of the Government programme of this solution. Mr President, I do not know why you are only interested in the programme that has not yet arrived, but I already realized that you must be ashamed of the programme that is already here. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] I also tell you that I don't and I will never have the oldness of teaching anyone here, we give opinions. This is our opinion! And our opinion is that you have been penalized, and rightly penalized, for what you have done in the last four years in this country, offending people, dividing Portuguese, impoverishing families and causing the insolvency and bankruptcy of thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish by saying either Mr Hugo Lopes Soares or Mr Luís Montenegro, or Mr Telmo Correia, or all of you. Members who are speaking on an ongoing basis in this House, who will be given the opportunity to question Dr. António Costa as Prime Minister of Portugal at least 15 days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u326	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u327	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Ladies and gentlemen : The feasibility of the 20th Constitutional Government programme now presented will be one of the most important acts in the history of this House in democracy. First of all, because of the political significance that may have broken a consensus in which we have settled our institutional life for 40 years, and the illegitimateness of another government other than this one, due to the infringement of this constitutional practice. Secondly, because of the enormous impact (and it will be felt in a very long time) that the eventual approval of a motion of rejection, through a binding motion until a little while ago, will have on people, Portuguese society and the economy. The Government of the Portugal Front coalition, the winner of the elections, successfully concluded a cycle of recovery, already won, of the country in pre-failence or, better, failed, then intervened by the credible institutions, fatally impoverished, without the ability to obtain market funding for the most essential expenditure of the State, which was legislated to it in June 2011 by irresponsible governance of the PS. It's true! At that date, in June 2011, there were no money to pay pensions or to pay wages. And there is nothing worse than this, because this runs a democracy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Government is now presenting a programme which provides for the continuation of the sustainable improvement of Portuguese incomes and has tried, on behalf of the democratic consensus, a considerable effort to approach the PS electoral programme, a party which so far shared a democratic and Europeanist matrix with the PSD and the CDS. Those who will be brought to birth — here — the government constituted by the political forces winning the elections will inevitably be judged by history and, in the very short term, by the Portuguese people, again, but now, as they have generated — the term is 'begotten' — one of the biggest and most dangerous pitfalls of our recent collective life. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] To remember the plot or faction that if you want to appropriate power, on behalf of political myths, of absolutely political myths—to block austerity(but who does not want to stop austerity? ) , to govern for people ( as if it were possible that any government did not do so, it is necessary to do so well, as did the coalition, and not do - do it wrong, as did the PS, which proves the situation in which it left us in 2011 ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u329	... end the impoverishment cycle (we are more or less poor today than in 2011? ) — what is our situation compared to 2011? Are we poorer?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u330	Less!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u331	With the confidence indicators to achieve levels never reached in the last 10 years? Oh, my God! With the increase in employment? Oh, my God! With all the indicators, whether at export level or within the framework of the deficit? Oh, my God! Whatever the indicator you are looking for, everything is proof of a clear improvement! Let us remember the austerity imposed by the first three PECs, in the time of the government led by Engineer José Socrates. This austerity imposed by the PS, including that resulting from the abortion PEC 4, would be good austerity because it would be sponsored by the PS, in contrast to the bad austerity from 2011 to 2013, made absolutely necessary for national salvation reasons. As we see, there is good austerity and bad austerity. When bad austerity is sponsored by PS is good and vice versa, which does not cease to be absolutely extraordinary and reveals much of what your ethical conception is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u333	That's why we are, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen sitting on the right side of our seats, we do not accept lessons of democracy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] To give us lessons in democracy, with all due respect, VV. Ex., first, they would have to learn, and this faction of the PS, manifestly, did not learn it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u335	Each Member must be able to discern and interpret the meaning of the election results of 4 October, taking part in the responsibility of voting for the programme of a central, social and solidarity government, which continues the reformist measures and the safe, repeated, safe and sustainable recovery of the material well-being of the Portuguese, rather than its rejection, to replace it by a coalition without political and ideological structure, whose nebula programme will, to see, and in view of the little that has been said, a first and fatal step to the radicalization of the country that the vast majority of Portuguese refuse. Yes, you are contributing to the radicalisation of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u337	Every Member, women and men elected by the Portuguese people, whom they have sworn to serve, must vote in conscience, those who still have it, of course, in accordance with the mandate given to it. Now, if there is something that we all dispense, or if it is in memory of the sacrifices made by all Portuguese, especially between 2011 and 2013, the year in which economic growth has returned, is the path of financial irresponsibility that would lead us, very likely, to an exit from the euro, of arm given to another country that seems to serve as a model to the strange agreement that the political forces defeated in the elections will have arrived, and can be said, with ownership, on the backs of the Portuguese people, but not only on the backs of the Portuguese people, on the backs of many of their militants, on the backs of many of their voters. These three parties are, themselves, broken inside. What stability solution, then, do you want to present to us? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u338	Thank you for your concern, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u339	And now the government programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u340	Some Member should not have been present when I referred to the Government Programme. It is about November 25th, which completed April 25th and tied Portugal firmly to democracy, showing us the courage that was needed to avoid the appropriation of power by minorities who wanted to confiscate our freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u341	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u342	That is exactly what, unfortunately, is at stake again at this moment. At this time, the role of the PS was essential to contain the illegitimate attempt to take power and it was a reference, for those who had memory, but this faction of the Socialist Party lost references. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The majority of the Portuguese people, we believe, will not allow them to return to those times and change short-term demagogic promises for a new imbalance in public accounts that can bring us back to the starting point of 2011 : poverty and our sovereignty threatened by bankruptcy. Listen to the warning to the risk of a new rescue carried out by the Public Finance Council on economic policy! Listen to this alert alert about the hypothesis of a new rescue! We are sure that the government uncertainty and electoral policies proposed by the three parties to the right of our benches would certainly lead to a new rescue. Yes, for who are the conservatives, who is on the right, today, are the lords!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u344	Mistakes and irresponsibilities in this matter are committed quickly, but the repair of the damage takes many years, as we all know from bitter experiences of previous cycles, curiously, always being the PS leading the government. In fact, these signs are already visible: on the rise of interest, on the stock market, on the investment. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The parties in this House choose to try... [[BE's laughs.]] Riam, riam, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they'll cry later! [[Laughing.]] As I said, the parties in this House have chosen to overthrow the government, which now presents its Programme, to take on a more singular course of action as it is true that this rejection has been announced, on a trip to power, long before they know the Programme, which today and here is discussed, which corresponds to an atrocity to the rules of democratic ethics which does not seem to walk on the right side of our benches. To overthrow the XX Constitutional Government will be an act of enormous irresponsibility, one of those cases, unfortunately rare, in which the long-term interests of the country are sacrificed, that is, of all of us, to the frenzy of the takeover of power, in which one forgets the sustainability of the social state, to distribute the fruits of recovery quickly and demagogicly made possible by the collective efforts of the Portuguese in recent years, but to soon destroy them. It will put in place a political negotiation, a manipulation between party leaderships with conflicting ideologies apart from political coherence and intellectual honesty. It will replace stability and predictability, which is so important to people, because they allow investment and employment to be created by instability and uncertainty. What a replacement! It will also undermine a significant proportion of those who voted in the PS, but also in the BE and PCP. It's opening Pandora's box, a process that you know how it starts, but you don't know how it ends. Division factors are introduced into Portuguese society, factors that can culminate in a serious form of being and being. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] by interrupting an economic and budgetary trajectory so that people can live better and by all recognized as virtuous, the overthrow of the Government of Portugal, by a set of circumstances, will sacrifice our collective future, the life of all of us. It is, however, with hope and serenity that we are waiting for you. Members, aware of the historic responsibility of this moment, unfavorably vote on the motion of rejection tabled by the defeated parties. Otherwise, we know that on our right there are two parties for sale or that have already been sold. We just need to know the price. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But there is also something that seems equally true to us: it will return the policy of interests, the public-private conspiracy, the defense of the most powerful under the cover of a social discourse and, even though, with the blessing of the PCP and BE. [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]] As the poet wrote "the gods, when they want to lose men, drive us crazy, invading them. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]] Portugal did not deserve political and personal survival to be surpassed by people, but that is what it is right here on the right side of the coalition benches, in an electoral usurpation, never seen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u345	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves and José Luís Ferreira. I ask the honourable Member how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u346	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u347	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u348	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concrete question I put is whether we know the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We have good evidence that you do not know her, by the 21 declarations of unconstitutionality and by the various pronunciations that the current majority collected in the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u349	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u350	But today, they reveal ignorance of the Constitution on another level: when he speaks in lies. This is because you should realize that what is going on is democracy working, it is the Constitution in parliamentary headquarters, House of the political representation of the Portuguese, a majority able to rule the country, a majority able to turn the page, a majority able to correspond to the mandate given to it by the voters. They ask us whether, in conscience, we shall vote in accordance with the mandate given to us. Now, voting in conscience with the mandate that the voters have given us is to refuse, reject, overthrow the current government and constitute an alternative majority, which gives answers to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And as for the people, Mrs Deputies, the answer is very simple: what is the mobile, what is the value that overlaps and allows this vote? Returning income to people, ensuring the safeguarding of essential public services and the social state, ensuring that the Constitution is fulfilled and that those who had to leave the country return. This is what mobilizes us, this is what directs our conscience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u351	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u352	Mr President, Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz, we have indeed heard many things in this debate this afternoon. We have heard Mr. Prime Minister say that over the past four years the PSD/CDS government has done a lot of good things, so that later Mr. Telmo Correia has come to say that what they have done was because of the Socialist Party. [[Laughter of Members of the CFP.]] Now, I think that if the PSD/CDS government had, in fact, worked well, certainly would not need to shoot with fatherhood for others. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But we have heard more, we have heard Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares talking about an election board.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u353	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u354	We have heard Mr Luís Montenegro say, right at the beginning of the afternoon and then seconded, now almost at the end of the afternoon, by Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, that in the legislative elections of 4 October the Portuguese elected prime minister! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of people who are seeing us and who are even more confused than they are. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u355	Let's see if we rest the truth on the facts. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister is not elected! Mr Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the Republic, taking into account the election results and after hearing the parties with parliamentary representation. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u356	It's the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u357	What the Portuguese elected, in the legislative elections on 4 October, was 230 Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u358	Do you understand now? [[Protests from PSD MP Paula Teixeira da Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u359	We then heard Mrs Cecilia Meireles say that an alternative government to the PSD/CDS government would be an illegitimate government, but she did not say why.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u360	But I explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u361	And I didn't say why, because what he says has no basis, neither legal nor constitutional. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u362	Then we heard Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho say that anyone who wins, forms government. That's how it has been, Mrs. Member, but it doesn't have to be like that. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u363	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u364	That's how it has been, but it doesn't always have to be that way. And, therefore, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS, mention the tradition, mention the custom, mention the repeated practice, but do not mention, in this matter, the Constitution, with which, in fact, the honourable Members. Members have lived with great difficulty, as has been seen over the past four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u365	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u366	... in which they approved a number of diplomas, in clear confrontation with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, and from then on the four budgets of the State of this legislature. [[Exactly!]] [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u367	But, Mrs. Paula Teixeira of the Cross, we have also heard her talk of an ambush in our collective life, we have heard of illegitimateness...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u368	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u369	... from another government, which is not this PSD/CDS government. Mr Deputies, I believe that you know perfectly well that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic indicates that it does not have to be the political force that wins the elections to form government, because otherwise the Constitution would - I would say it clearly, and for that, neither would the President of the Republic need to hear the parties with parliamentary representation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u370	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u371	And if you hear them, for some reason it will be. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, knowing certainly the Constitution—and that is not what I am going to ask you—and also knowing that Mr Prime Minister is not, nor has he been, elected on 4 October but, yes, appointed, I ask: is that unwelcome? Is this disorientation? Or is this PSD and CDS panic? [[Congrats from the Greens Member of Poland, standing, and from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u372	In reply, Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u373	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, if it is true that you know me, you know that if anyone knows the Constitution, that person is me. [[PS and PCP rice.]] Riam-se, riam-se! But none of you ever read it from the beginning to the end, because if you had read it... [[PS and PCP rice.]] Can we continue with a democratic logic? If they had read it, they knew there was a little article, which is the eighth and which requires respect for international treaties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u374	Is there an international treaty establishing the election of the Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u375	And I ask: the PCP, the Left Block, the treaties... [[PCP protests.]] How are you in a position to comply with treaties, such as those established by NATO, those relating to the Budget Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon? Oh, my God! What's it like? Oh, my God! What's it like? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I can finish, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the democratic humility, in view of your immense democratic sovereignty? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u376	With regard to the Constitution, Article 8. or prevents you, absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u377	You're going to have two disappointments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u378	Or you have sold yourself — and we will know what the price is, when we know the familiar agreement — or, then, they will expose everything that they have always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u379	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u380	You're going to have two disappointments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u381	And there is another question, Mr President: you, unlike us, have never announced in the election campaign the hypothesis of a coalition. [[Never!]] [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] [[That's the truth!]] [[That's the truth!]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u382	We won!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u383	And that takes away your legitimacy, a lot of legitimacy! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] After that, it is not surprising that you are willing to comply with the treaties that you have always refused. The PS is no longer well this Europe, it is something else. So you no longer know anything about this ideological magma that stands among you. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] You have seen that you cannot count with all honesty! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] If I could count, I would count the 2 million votes of Portuguese who voted in the coalition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u384	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u385	... and that he presented himself in a clear and serious way. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. As for the rest, lessons on the Constitution, lessons on laws, especially in adjustment periods, when we presented here to a diploma on illicit enrichment, plunged by the Constitutional Court, we are talking. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u386	The Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u387	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past four years, we have had to respond to an emergency situation. To a financial emergency programme, we were able to respond with the creation of a solid social emergency programme. The Economic and Financial Assistance Programme was an imposition, requested and negotiated by a Government of the Socialist Party; the choice by a social emergency programme, yes, was our choice. If there is a matter where we choose to go beyond the troika, it was in response to the social emergency, releasing financial means to increase minimum pensions, which were previously frozen, releasing financial means to create active employment measures and more opportunities in the labour market and also releasing financial resources to strengthen the social institutions, the Mercy and the IPSS of our country that helped to help those who needed it most. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u388	in the Social Emergency Programme, we invested about EUR 1000 million and it was through it that we could increase minimum social and rural pensions to more than 1 million Portuguese, always above inflation values. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u389	From 2011 to today, the increase was 6, 2 % and the inflation of 3, 1 %, thus allowing a real increase in purchasing power for these pensioners of more than € 220 / year than in 2011. But also in the Social Emergency Programme ( ESP ) the increase in contractualization with social institutions for participation in home vacancies, day care centres, support structures for people with disabilities, home support services and other responses that constitute the support network for Portuguese families. Over the past four years, we have reached the 14 000 cooperation agreements concluded, resulting in the participation of 0, 5 million Portuguese and an investment of around 1300 million euros. It is a support network for families that has grown notoriously in these four years, with more than 17 000 new jobs in day care and more than 13 000 new jobs in homes. This was a frank investment that we made to protect by impact those who were most exposed to the crisis and to the adjustment we had inherited. We have done this precisely so that we do not see a reality aggravated that has been rooted in recent decades. Portugal has levels of unacceptable social inequalities, levels that we managed to stagnate in 2011 values, even with the enormous pressure to increase, even when all other countries under adjustment saw these inequalities grow, even with the unemployment we have experienced. If social inequalities have not worsened, as we trust the last record of Gini's coefficient estimated by the National Institute of Statistics, this is due to clear political options to ask for the additional effort of those who had the most to protect those who needed it most. But Portugal has also, for many decades, many governments, despite the extraordinary progress made with freedom and with Europe, unacceptable levels of poverty, more vulnerable groups to which we must continue to protect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It's not just a problem today, or a problem in the last four years, or a problem in the last decade. Despite the very significant and continuous investment in social security, in particular in recent decades it has passed from 9, 1 % to about 27 % of our GDP, this important investment did not always have a direct correspondence in the social mobility of families, especially those who were excluded. The State has not always been able to break with the cycle of poverty, nor has it always been the size of investment and effort served its purpose. After this, knowing the moment we have spent and where we want to continue to follow, it is time to give another effect to social investment made. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Augustine Bessa-Luís said, I quote, «the country does not need so much as anyone who says what is wrong; it needs more than anyone who knows what is right». what the country needs, and this government knows well, is to continue to build recovery and economic recovery without damaging its sustainability. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You need to continue to generate confidence to attract investment. It needs stability to ensure recovery and it needs, of course, to continue to create jobs. Now, already free of troika and other constraints, after the social emergency, it is time to activate the social development program. Its main objective is the progress of social mobility, recognizing that the adjustment period was particularly difficult for certain sectors of Portuguese society. We must continue to bet on valuing people, restoring income, increasing job opportunities, strengthening protection to those who are most disadvantaged. This is an intervention which should be done cross-sectionally with the public administration, with local authorities, but also with the active involvement of the social network and the solidarity network. That is why one of the most important pillars of the Government's programme we are discussing today is the name of a social development programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue to increase the pensions to 1 million Portuguese people covered by minimum social and rural pensions, a reinforcement that will be by 5. the consecutive year, very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u390	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u391	Second, we want to put back the four. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance that were withdrawn in 2010 by the Socialist Party and that left more than 500 000 children without support. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Thirdly, we want to launch a national plan to combat failure and drop out of school, strengthening the autonomy of schools, because we know the importance of education in the collapse of the long cycles of poverty. Fourth, we must continue to move forward with the local social intervention network, as an instrument which the State makes available to citizens, especially the weakest, through the solidarity sector institutions, to facilitate, facilitate and resolve access to and follow-up to their rights, especially social benefits, and to do so together with a new model of local social development contracts that will have a particular focus on combating inequalities, poverty and cohesion. Fifth, we will also go together with the social institutions to celebrate the contractualization at levels never recorded for a better response that includes the areas of education, health, as well as social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u392	We want to see this in the program!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u393	Sixth, we want to continue a policy of the return of hospitals to the Mercy, ensuring a service of proximity and quality to the populations. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Seventh, as I could only be, we want to continue with what was our priority: the fight against unemployment. If today unemployment is at 11 %, 9 %, after it has been close to 18 %, this is mainly due to the companies and the workers who have made their effort the success of recovery. But such recovery also resulted from the profound labour reforms we have made, fulfilling a historic social consultation agreement signed with the social partners who have the capacity to compromise. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Facing 1. the quarter of 2013, the peak of the crisis, today we have more 221 000 jobs, the vast majority of them full-time and unfinished, giving a sign of sustained and non- precarious job creation. Faced with 2013, as a result of these reforms and programmes such as Active Life or Reativavar, which were created by this government, there are today fewer than 160 000 Portuguese in long-term unemployment. in the size of young employment, Europe had not yet developed the Youth Guarantee, already Portugal with the Impulso Youth programme accords priority to combating unemployment and promoting young employment. In 2014 and 2015, it was possible to cover about 413 000 young people in employment and vocational training measures, with an investment of more than 730 million euros. And this resulted from the confidence that increased investment, the investment that increased job creation, precisely the trust, stability and the investment that some today want to call into question by endangering all this recovery. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we come to this debate, we must ask a legitimate question here: those who question this recovery, what do they have as an alternative to offer to the Portuguese? How does your social policy contrast with what is being discussed here? First, while this government has always increased and will continue to increase minimum social and rural pensions above inflation values, ensuring the recovery of purchasing power to more than 1 million Portuguese that are very old and very dependent, with such a left troika, as we know, can be seen to a replacement of the law of the IAS (indicating social support), which gives an increase of pensions, to the annual inflation value recorded this year, of 0, 3 %. The difference is that we propose an increase of 1 % to 2016, while the said left troika... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u394	... would want to increase pensions only by 0, 3 %, in fact below the expected inflation value for 2016. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is, while we propose an increase of 1% in minimum pensions, 37 € / year/ pensioner, such a left troika, in this scenario, would only propose an increase of 10 € / year, causing more than 1 million Portuguese to lose purchasing power. Secondly, this government wants to recover the 4. o is 5. the family allowance steps that in 2010 were withdrawn by a government of the Socialist Party and that left more than 500 000 children without this support. As far as we know, left-handed frenzy is proposed to reposition them at 2011 levels. Interestingly, this is a benefit that has not undergone any change since 2011 and, in this way, such left-wing frenzy forgets, or pretends not to know, that the extinction of the 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance were made by a government of the Socialist Party as early as 2010. Return to 2011 level is to leave everything as it is. Will it be a gaffe? Oh, my God! Or are they selling us cats for hare? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in our option, it is very clear: we want to restore the 4. o is 5. The steps. Thirdly, we also realize that contrary to this government, the so-called left-wing troika supposedly wants to put an end to active employment policies and contractual support, those that have been negotiated and created with the social partners, who, for example, have put about 70% of their beneficiaries on the labour market in the case of traineeships for young people. for our part, we want to continue these support, but the supposed left-wing troika seems to want to end the social dialogue and employment policies that help give an opportunity to those who want to return to the labour market and who are, in fact, called upon by the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u395	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u396	Fourthly, this Government will maintain a policy of strengthening competences and contractualization with social institutions to increase the social protection of Portuguese families. Today, in this debate, we realize that two thirds of the members of this supposed left troika are against this principle of subsidiarity, questioning the work of IPSS, of Mercy, of mutuality, in which the social service is, above all, turned to those who are weaker, poorer or more excluded. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Fifth, this Government clearly undertakes to ensure that each Portuguese has a family doctor by the end of 2017, i.e. a family doctor for over 1 million Portuguese in the next two years. The alleged left-wing troika is limited, as we know, to providing a family doctor for more than 500 000 inhabitants in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u397	It can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u398	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today all Portuguese know, here it has been said, that the worst enemy of the social state is even the bankrupt state. Our first concern was to defend Portugal from bankruptcy. Financially redeemed the country, it is time to continue to develop the social functions of the State, reaching more Portuguese, more and more new forms. That is why we do not propose what is utopian or unsustainable, we propose what is viable and feasible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u399	Mr Minister, you have eight requests for clarification. I ask you how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u400	I shall respond to the end, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u401	Of course, Minister. Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u402	Mr President, Minister Pedro Mota Soares, I have been listening very carefully and I have noticed that the Minister does not seem to have noticed that we have had a serious economic and social crisis in recent years, because he is always talking about the inequalities in recent decades, and he has not naturally realized that some of the inequalities that we have today have been created, provoked and increased in recent years when you were in government. Mr Minister says that now, past the emergency phase, we have a social development programme and says your Programme that it is based on a new paradigm to deepen the social state and that this new paradigm — these words always have a lot of effect — is based on a relationship, and now, yes, comes the novelty, of public-social partnership, a PPS. I'd like to understand exactly what this PPS is. I have tried to decipher in your text what you want and confirm, until I have heard it, that what you want is nothing more than to promote transfers from the State to private institutions in health, education, through cooperation agreements. And this, Minister, is the foreclosure of the privatization of social security. It's the first step! You don't have the courage to assume that you want to privatize it, but you're going to make transfers never recorded before. Minister, what I want to ask is whether you are aware that the main engine of social mobility is not the mechanism of protection in poverty, but rather education, education, education. Does the Minister realize that it is not possible to defend and revitalize the social state by means of a programme, such as that presented by the Minister, where not once, but only once, it refers to social rights? Oh, my God! How does Mr Minister want to revive the social state without talking about social rights? Oh, my God! He probably does not believe in social rights, he believes in the need for assistance. I am very pleased to speak of this because for three years I have been in front of the Lisbon social network, working with 400 organisations of social solidarity, and I know very well what that is. But this is a complementary role of the function of the State and what I question is this growing transfer of the role of the State to private institutions, emptying public social security, to which Mr. Minister cut resources, to whom Mr. Minister cut officials, leaving the system of public social security itself weakened and then transferring to private, who do not have the same scrutiny as the public money. The question I want to ask is: how does the social state reform without talking about social rights? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u403	Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u404	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Mrs and Mrs. Members, one evidence that Portugal has re-emerged and re-emerged in recent years is the change that we have had from a social emergency programme to a social development programme. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u405	This expression « social development programme» is well exemplified, the realization that Portugal was able to re-emerge, after the pre-failence situation in 2011, and this is obviously of the greatest relevance. But this social development programme cannot, nor will it, have the ghosts that have just been spelled out or invoked by Mrs Helena Roseta. That is, this social development programme is a program where the State continues to exist (certainly! ) where public social security continues to play its role ( certainly! ) , but where there must also be a contract with private entities, non-profit social entities. They are entities with greater social relevance. Today, we have heard here perhaps one of the most senseless attacks on the social institutions of this country. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u406	Let go of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u407	We forget that these institutions welcome more than 500 000 citizens: the elderly, the disabled, children, the young, the needy. We forget that these institutions mobilise some 250 000 jobs. We forget that these institutions are scattered throughout the country. We forget that they were fundamental to giving more support to the deprived families in these times of crisis for which we have passed. That is why it is unacceptable for Mrs Catarina Martins — who is already clearly apologizing to me, the CFP, the mother soul of a possible future solution of governance — to announce that these institutions do not pass from a client network, in an exercise that is, truly, of neglect, of dimming...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u408	You're fighting, aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u409	... of civil society institutions, working for civil society, working for the support of the most needy in the country. That is why I cannot accept that these institutions, which have this extraordinary role in Portuguese society, are dehumed here in this way. Don't! They don't deserve it and the Portuguese don't deserve it, especially those who have the most shortages. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, I therefore ask you to give us more information on this new dynamic, about the need to build and strengthen this network between the State and these institutions. I have heard Mr. Carlos César talking about that forum of concern about poverty, and well, because the question of poverty is really an essential issue, combating poverty is fundamental. The question of social exclusion and social inequalities is something that must mobilize us at all. That is why, Minister, I will ask a question that has to do with the pensions of the elderly and, above all, with the minimum pensions of the general scheme, social pensions and rural pensions. They are, indeed, 1 million Portuguese, perhaps the poorest in Portugal, and therefore, as I condemn us that there are many shortcomings in Portuguese, we realize this purpose of this government in giving a significant increase, above inflation, to these pensions. With what we are really amazed is this concern about the poverty of the elderly, presented here by Mr Carlos César, and at the same time we have the information that if they were government they would only increase by 0, 3 % to these minimum pensions. This is in 2011, this government received the minimum frozen pensions and if this were the Government of the Socialist Party we would have pensions very close to the level of freezing. They would not be frozen, but would be very close to the level of freezing. Therefore, Minister, we would like you to provide us with some more information on this issue of minimum pensions, the necessary increase that needs to be made and the purposes that this Government has to carry out this increase in pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u410	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u411	Mr President, Minister, we know - well and we know that in the last four years you have basically been the Minister for Mercy, the Minister for Unemployment and the Minister for Social Security. Remember that he took the solidarity complement to 100 000 elderly people, which is called poverty and inequality. Remember that you frozen your pensions from 274 €, this is called inequality. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u412	You are now talking about family allowance, but the only reference to family allowance in the Government Programme is on page 33 and concerns family allowance for disability. Mr Minister, over the past four years, his Government has increased the number of hours of work and has reduced the average wage to €580, has razed collective bargaining and increased inequalities and the Minister, who, as a Member, promised the workers the green receipt, has spent four years pursuing the workers in the green receipt,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u413	...with undue and implacable charges, he scoured wages, scoured houses, scoured cars to charge a debt to social security, which was often unfair. What you have done over the past four years has been transforming the labour market into a sea of precariousness. They speak of a young guarantee, but there was no young guarantee, there were 70,000 employment-inclusion contracts and Portugal was transformed into an internship economy, where our taxes are used to finance companies that resort, permanently and in rotation, to precariousness and that dispatch them at the end of nine months. This was your employment policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And what we are proposing today is to continue the action of a government that has, in fact, managed to ensure that more than half of the unemployed have no support, no unemployment allowance. in fact, Mr Minister, if there was any employment of your direct responsibility, it was probably only that which resulted from the nominations of PSD and CDS militants for social security structures. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The Government programme which proposes to us here is the continuation of this degradation. It is a Programme of irresponsibility to the unemployed, of dispelment to the precarious and of facilitation to the continued abuses in the world of work. If the social development plan needs to be summarized in three words, just look at what the Social State Programme says, which are three: co-financer, supervisor and regulator of private entities, to whom they intend to deliver the social functions of the State. In other words, what the PSD and the CDS propose with this Programme is to continue to transform the social state, basically, into subsidies for the private, is to continue to replace the social state by an industry of charity, which transforms rights into favours, at all levels, in terms of day care, of the homes, but even, see well, the allocation of social benefits, which are allocated to the private. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u414	Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, I know that you and the ministers who are sitting there are comfortable and like these chairs, but, as Mr. Prime Minister would say, they will even have to leave your comfort zone, because the fall of this government will be a relief to the country and it will be, and I propose that they see it so, an opportunity for those people who have seen the social support cut off, for the precariouss that have been pursued and for those who have lost their salary of return, it will be an opportunity of dignity and it will be an opportunity of hope. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u415	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Vania Barros, whom I greet and also welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u416	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I address this House and, therefore, from now on, I leave a special compliment to everyone. Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, the former Government inherited the Memorandum of Understanding, which provided that minimum social and rural pensions were not increased. This majority and this government opposed the troika and these pensions were frozen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u417	Well remembered! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u418	For four years we increased social and rural pensions above the value of inflation, 6, 2 % increase in four years against 3, 1 % inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u419	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u420	And I remember seeing the PCP and the Left Block mock and despise these increases, calling them ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u421	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u422	I therefore ask a question and a comment. I ask the legitimate government, which the people have chosen, and the Minister confirms the intention of this Government to increase minimum social and rural pensions, as we did, despite the troika and to be against what was in the Memorandum, in very difficult circumstances. Mr Minister, I would also like to comment. If it is true that the agreements of those banks for a government that is formally legal, but politically illegitimate, provide for a defreezing of pensions of 0, 3%, I would like you to tell me what is fairer... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u423	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u424	You'll hear, calm down! As I said, if it is true what the agreements of those benches provide, I would like you to tell me what is fairer, if an increase of more than 1 %, which is ours, or if an increase of 0, 3 %, which is that of those benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u425	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u426	A higher increase than inflation, which is ours, or a lower increase than inflation, which is that of those benches? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is that this two-cent increase per day for a pensioner is made, and I quote, by you « who thought an increase of about 30 cents per day was a shame and an offense». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u427	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of BE, who greets her first intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u428	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Solidarity Minister, Employment and Social Security, it is indeed known that the real situation in which Portuguese and Portuguese people live today, and especially those who work, is worse than it was four years ago, and not to recognize this is actually beyond reality. Real unemployment has increased, there are more unemployed without any kind of support, about 700 000 right now. The term contracts and precarious contracts are the rule and the collective contract is in fact wounded in death, today being below levels of the 250 000 workers covered by the collective contract, no longer to mention the hundreds of thousands of people, mostly young people, who have been leaving the country over these four years. This is the real portrait, for more beautification operations you want to do. And by this time, the whole country has learned not to trust the numbers presented by you, Minister, because the reality of the facts says something else. The Government, in particular the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, would present us in this Programme with the list of scenarios and proposals for work and employment, the most frequently repeated word of which is not « work », nor « employment », is « competitiveness ». We are talking about competitiveness, competitive environment, business competitiveness, and we could go on out there. however, Mr Minister, we know very well what competitiveness means to the right, means lower wages, precariousness and lack of rights, as has always been. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And we can't forever be the country of paradise of low wages, people no longer stand. We can't be because, no matter what it is, there's always someone who's going to lower the wages even further. So we now have several examples of companies that have moved to other countries, leaving hundreds of Portuguese in unemployment. Why? Because, in other countries, wages are even lower. Therefore, low wages cannot be the objective for competitiveness. And this is your concept of competitiveness that we reject. By continuing to read the Programme, not a word about precariousness, as if trying to hide such a well-known reality at this time by a large majority of the Portuguese population. Not a word about the gigantic fraud of the stages used only to renew cheap labor from six months to six months. And here we have the benefits for companies and the instability for people, all sponsored by their government for the last four years. Not a word about the formations of the IEFP, which have been helping to mask the real numbers of unemployment and, by now, to remove dignity from those people. The strategy of this government is so clear: low wages and precariousness — nothing new, therefore, unfortunately! A Programme that lists a role of measures that, in the vast majority, benefit employers and maintain current situations for workers and the unemployed. That is what we have here, and it remains to be asked: where is there really a decent work policy for workers and workers? Where, in fact, is the fight against precariousness? There is no concrete measure to limit, for example, the misuse of temporary work enterprises; there is no concrete measure to protect all those who have lost their rights in the past four years. What we have in this Programme is benefits for companies, without guaranteeing the return of rights or work situations other than precarious ones. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u429	To make requests for clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u430	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister Pedro Mota Soares, went on for four years to repeat the same speech, the same talk of social emergency programmes and that this Government created market opportunities for work, investment and more investment. Well, Mr. Minister has an insanitary problem with reality. He speaks of the replacement of the 4. o is 5. the steps, when that does not even appear in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u431	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u432	He uses IPSS to attack the PCP, knowing very well that IPSS cannot and should never replace the fundamental role of social security and state. For four years, as now, in his speech, he said, without a feeling of shame, that the PSD/CDS-PP government has fought injustice and combated social inequalities. But the truth is, from the political solutions of the PSD and CDS, it has turned out to be a completely different reality. Because of this government, 1 million Portuguese are unemployed and the vast majority have no protection in unemployment and 80 % — I repeat, 80 % — of the low jobs created in our country is precarious. The PSD and CDS-PP government, in addition to fire thousands of workers in the Public Administration, promoted free work through employment-inclusion contracts. For four years, they attacked rights and cut wages and social benefits to concentrate national wealth in half-dozen economic groups. Finally, and contrary to what I said here in this gallery, Mr Minister, because of the PSD and the CDS, there has been the worst increase in poverty ever seen since fascism. Mr Minister, these are the options of the PSD/CDS-PP government that were defeated by the struggle, were defeated by the elections. However, the Minister insists on the same path that has sunk the country and insists on denying reality. Perhaps tomorrow, Mr Minister, with the rejection of this programme and the resignation of this government, at last Mr Minister will realize that the reality, the struggle of the workers and the people have been imposed on the will and propaganda of the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u433	In order to make requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Falcato, of the Left Block, now has the floor to whom I also greet for his first intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Mota Soares, when the European guidelines clearly point to the deinstitutionalisation of people with disabilities, when we know that the government has committed itself to meeting this objective in Brussels, what do we see? We continue to see Minister Mota Soares promise hundreds of millions of euros of European funds for the construction of residential homes, residential homes that mean for many disabled people to stay away from family, friends, their land, their social networks, their environments. People who are often hospitalized against their will, because they do not have an alternative. Residential homes to which the State shares with 970 euros monthly per inpatient and which still account for up to 90% of the incomes of whom it is admitted. I have friends who don't have the money to drink a "kid" per day. Persons with disabilities who are hospitalized because, to stay at home, the social benefit they can use to pay to someone who can help overcome their dependence is the assistance allowance for a third person of 88 € per month. It is €88 for a person who needs to have at least 30 hours a week of assistance, which means that this person will have 48 cents per hour to pay someone. This is miserable! There are exits to this situation, but in this Government Programme there is more than that. I remember that on October 7, 2012, right here at the door of this Assembly of the Republic, a hunger strike began. Eduardo Jorge, tetraplegic, was fighting for the right to an independent life with the support of the Movement of Indignant Deficiencies. At that time, in the person of the Secretary of State of Augustine Branquinho, the Government undertook to initiate at the end of January 2013 the drafting of legislation on the system of personal assistance based on the philosophy of independent life, legislation which was also agreed at that time would obey two issues considered fundamental by the community of persons with disabilities: direct payments to the disabled person and freedom to choose the person who assists him. Two years have passed, and nothing has happened, except to be a course of personal assistants, who, as far as I know, manufactured unemployed. They also speak in your Programme in a model of support for independent life that no one knows what it will be. It is known that they remix institutions, such as mercy or gender, in the provision of personal assistance, which is something that disabled people reject. It's been two years and they weren't able to fulfill what they woke up and promised. They were neither able nor able to implement solutions based on the rights of disabled people because they prefer assistanceist solutions. It is, in fact, an ideological issue. It is time to leave; tomorrow will give rise to the hope of better days for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u435	The last request for clarification is from Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u436	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Poverty, Unemployment and Charity, because this is indeed Minister Pedro Mota Soares. First of all, I would like to say, on behalf of the CFP, that we categorically reject the accusation Mr Adam Silva made here concerning the IPSS. The PCP has always defended that IPSS plays a key role in ensuring important social protection functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u437	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u438	However, Mr President, we will never be able to accept that this government does not comply with the Constitution, that it is irresponsible of what is a fundamental obligation, and that responsibility should be raised above the IPSS. IPSSs have a complementary role, they cannot replace the State in what is a fundamental obligation in the guarantee of economic and social rights enshrined in the Constitution. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Mota Soares, the Minister and this government imposed a setback on this country for four years. Unemployment, poverty and emigration are the mark of this government and will never get rid of this responsibility — 27, 5 % of the population at risk of poverty in 2014. Where is there no worsening of social inequalities, Minister? What country does he live in? Minister, tell here how many children did you cut the special education allowance? Mr. Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho made a commitment to the replacement of the special education grant with these families. What does the Government Programme say? Zero! As for family allowance, over 600,000 children lost family allowance. What does the Government Programme say? Zero! What does Mr. Minister for Poverty and Charity say? He says he's going to restore the 4th. o and 5. The steps. however, we have often proposed it here and the PSD and the CDS have always rejected it, Minister of Poverty and Charity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u439	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u440	Family allowance, unemployment benefit, solidarity for the elderly is not a favour that this government does to guaranteeing them to people, are a right, a right won with 25 April and enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The government, by guaranteeing social rights, is not giving alms to the poor, it is guaranteeing a path of progress, and that is what it refused to do over four years. This programme demonstrates the need for the defeat of this government and this policy. This programme says nothing about the social security lovers, Minister, to whom this government, for four years, denied a contract with rights, and two years ago said that unemployment was the door to the street, i.e. told them that the only alternative they had was unemployment without any social protection. That is your responsibility, Minister, and you will never get rid of it. Nor will it be relieved of the responsibility it has for the re-qualification of social security, the fact that it has imposed the mobility of persons in need of services, which guarantee the functioning of child and youth protection committees, which guarantee fundamental rights that this government has refused to comply with. This government, this policy, has been defeated by the struggle of workers, by the struggle of families and by the vote, and that is why this country needs another government and a path of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u441	In response to these eight requests for clarification, the Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u442	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to leave a note. I have asked to group together the answers to these requests for clarification so that more of my colleagues in the government can intervene during the debate, thus enriching the debate itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u443	Thank you! We were here two days ago! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by replying to Mrs Helena Roseta, to whom, of course, I am very grateful for the question put, saying: fortunately, there are not only two sectors in Portugal. There is not only the public sector and the private sector, there is a third sector, the social economy sector, a sector that is different from the private sector because it is not organized around the profit, on the contrary, organized to give social responses, to find the satisfaction of social needs, especially those who are weakest, the poorest and the most disadvantaged in Portuguese society. And if it weren't for this sector, Mrs Deputy, in the last four years, in the last 40 years, in the last 500 years, poverty in Portugal would have been very different, because these are the men and women who are on the street every day, they are in the field helping those who really need it most. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They are merciful, they are IPSS, they are mutual, they are associations, they are cooperative, it is a dimension of the social economy which, fortunately, managed, at such a difficult time, to overcome their responsibilities and had a multiplier effect. We were able, at the end of the social action, to have a reinforcement of almost EUR 440 million, but indeed the work done by these institutions was far beyond the strengthening of the budget, because they had indeed had a huge multiplier effect throughout the country. And, Madam Member, I, like you, support the social economy, only regret one small thing: when the Memorandum of Understanding was made with the troika by the Socialist Party, I regret that you have not heard your voice about the fact that the government of the time, the Socialist Party, wanted to force these institutions to pay for IRC, as if a private institution, which aims to profit, if it were concerned. I am sorry, Mrs. Member, that at that time you did not hear your voice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As I regret not having listened to your voice when all pensions were frozen, including minimum, social and rural pensions, which, in Portugal, are taken by more than one million pensioners, people who have worked for a lifetime, people who have very low pensions because they could not discount for social systems, which did not exist when they worked, and who really need, from the point of view of solidarity, a help, because they were the greatest responsible for the construction of the social state and for a welfare state in Portugal. Therefore, they need some help, which was denied to them by the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Then, sirs. Mr Adam Silva and Mr Vania Barros, thanking you very much for your questions, I wanted to say that we have not yet known the agreement on the left, but I have already written that what is proposed is to resume the law of the IAS (indicating social support). However, the IAS law says that all pensions up to EUR 628 would have an increase in inflation next year, i.e. 0, 3 %. Our option is clearly different, our option is to increase minimum pensions above inflation, so that these pensioners can recover purchasing power. With regard to Mr Soeiro, to whom I am very grateful for the questions, only two notes: who frozen pensions, Mr Deputy, all pensions, was not this government but that of the Socialist Party. Who extinguished the 4th. o is 5. the family allowance steps were not this government, it was a PS government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr President, I am only telling you this to draw attention to the companies with which you now, by the way, want to continue, who your fellows are today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's laughter and protests.]] With regard to collective bargaining, I just wanted to say one thing: you are talking to someone who has participated in four social agreements, social agreements to improve labour law, to value the national minimum wage. I don't think it's the Left Block, that doesn't attend and even — I'm suspicious! — it does not like social dialogue, to talk here about the importance of social dialogue between employers and trade unions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u445	In reply to Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Jorge Machado, I wanted to remind you of something that seems very relevant to me. Mr Deputy, unemployment in Portugal, when this government took office, had a rate of 12, 4 % and at present the rate is 11, 9 %. We all know that unemployment had a very high peak at the beginning of 2013, of almost 18 %. It was thanks to the effort, resilience, the working capacity of our workers and our employers....
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u446	What about emigration? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u447	...that this logic was reversed. Certainly, a social agreement also helped to make this possible, but what shocks me, Mr President, is that you do not recognize the effort that the Portuguese have made to lower the unemployment rate when they try to accuse the Government of a whole range of things, forgetting the fundamental role of social dialogue on this issue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, Mr President, I will reply to Mr Jorge Falcato and Mrs Rita Rato, saying the following: Mr Deputy, for the first time there was the courage to create a new social response for the disabled Portuguese. Eduardo Jorge's strike helped us realize that. It was this government that provided EUR 14 million of Community funds for the first time to have a mechanism, an independent life support response,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u448	Where is she? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u449	...to ensure that the only response that exists in the country for people with disabilities is not institutionalization. We needed strategic vision, we had to negotiate these matters until a time of budget reduction, but we were able to do so. But obviously, I also want to tell you that institutionalization is still important for many people in Portugal, and that is why this government has managed to increase it by giving priority to the construction of equipment to serve people with disabilities. at this time, there are 12 000 national responses, there are 65 million euros of budget that are used to protect these same responses and I think that today many people can have a service that is human and worthy also through social institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u450	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u451	But I'm sure you don't think like a lot of people on this board about social institutions. Finally, Mr President, as regards Mrs Rita Rato, I wanted to draw attention to one thing: who ended the 4th. o is 5. the family allowance steps were not this government. Clearly, what we say is that we want to restore this social benefit so important to families, so important to stimulate demography and birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u452	But where is this in the program? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u453	Tell me where the government programme page is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u454	Mrs. Member, look at the bench next to you and see who you're going with. These gentlemen are all the things that the honourable Member wanted to accuse the government! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-09.u455	I thank all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the officials of the House and journalists who have been with us all this afternoon. I think we've moved on. Tomorrow morning, very likely, we will be able to complete the debate of the XX Constitutional Government Programme and proceed to its conclusion in the afternoon. The meeting tomorrow will take place at 10 a.m. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 54 minutes.]]
