ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours.]] I ask the police authorities to open the galleries, please. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the ladies and gentlemen. Officials. As you know, our agenda today is a continuation of the debate on the Constitutional Government XX Programme. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The election campaign was already, but yesterday, in this debate, there was still a lot of talk about the election campaign. Strangely, there seems to be a desire on the right to deny the electoral outcome. And I understand why: because it wasn't famous for PSD and CDS-PP — we know.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u3	It wasn't for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u4	We have always said that Members were elected to the Assembly of the Republic. They are legislative elections, which do not elect prime ministers, nor governments, but, yes, Members. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So when PSD and CDS-PP lost more than 750 000 votes, they also lost 25 Members. And even from 132 Members, an absolute and comfortable majority in this Parliament to 107 Members and Members. We therefore understand the reasons for the concern of the PSD and CDS-PP. But still, whoever heard yesterday's speeches could think that they were able to soften the most hardened hearts and perhaps even make some of the stones of the footwear cry. We have spoken of an irreversible blow to the rules and conventions of our democracy, said the Prime Minister — and of electoral usurpation, a lack of democratic humility and an attempt to reverse the electoral result — said the benches of the PSD and the CDS-PP. But it is strange how those who make these accusations do not even know the minimum of their history as parliamentary groups. Let us look at a recent past, exactly for the one where PSD and CDS-PP, as government, threw our GDP, the wealth of our country. In 1999 he had the Left Block just arrived at the Assembly of the Republic and had the PS win elections with 115 Members. What happened at that time? What did the PSD do at that time? Exactly what you are now accusing the opposition parties of: of breaking the tradition. See: the PSD submitted a motion of rejection to a government which had a support base of 115 Members, saying that it had lost the elections, that it had been unable to guarantee a social majority of support and therefore deserved to be rejected. This is the demagogy of the PSD and CDS-PP, which only recalls the traditions when it suits them. After all, it is recognized that, for them, history is their memory, and there they have a very selective memory: only remember what is right for them! This is the reality of who is desperate because, in fact, he lost the elections, because he does not understand what happened to the election result and because, looking at the elections, he just seems to want to play the role of Calimer! Demagogy is this, the one on the right, which, not knowing its history, does not tell well what comes or recognizes that the austerity it defends was defeated in the elections. Let us see the debate that the right does not want to do, what happened in the past elections, what happened over four years and how it is now possible for an alternative to be raised. It is that this arch that so banners, such an arc of governance, was superseded by the arc of the Constitution, that which they did not know for four years and against which they ruled continually. Four years! Four years always against the Constitution! There were only four State budgets because, lastly, the PSD and the CDS-PP made a sort of advance play and launched the measures for the Constitutional Court even before they placed in the State Budget. If not, it would have been four State budgets submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP that "bought" in the Constitution. Now, we all know that if there is a unified text of a country it is the Constitution. If there is a document that says how a society is organized, it is the Constitution of a country. For this reason, extremists are those who, relying on a government and a parliamentary majority, rule against that regime, govern against that word of a country, which is the Constitution. These extremists are exactly PSD and CDS-PP. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know well how austerity is ideological, as it was the Government's Programme for four years, and it is still the Government's Programme for the next four years. Austerity promotes the concentration of fortunes and that is why, while the country has become impoverished, we have seen the number of millionaires increase; it promotes social inequality — it has grown every year from the mandate of the PSD and the CDS-PP; it destroys solidarity in our country, and that is why poverty has increased at the same time as social support has been cut off; and it destroys this solidarity among generations, among those who have built a social state that now this right to dismantle. And because we know that the Constitution is what unites this alternative we also know how there is a Europe that cannot be a 'forces shirt' for the Constitution, because there are no constitutions in Europe of the first and second. The German Constitution is no more important than the Portuguese Constitution, and that is exactly what affirms the alternative that is being constituted. The future of this House, the future of this country is the future of breaking the impoverishment cycle that PSD and CDS-PP want to continue. That is the real plan of the government. We want to change the country's life after the social disaster that was the governance of the PSD and the CDS-PP. The only majority that is expressed in Parliament is the majority that will reject that PSD and CDS-PP continue in government. The only majority expressed in the Government is the one who has the legitimacy of the votes of a people who, by voting in Members and Members, have withdrawn the majority from the PSD and the CDS-PP, demanding that they do not continue in the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in anticipation of the rejection, I leave Mr Prime Minister — who will no longer be — a simple and humble advice: tell his future that I am not bending, that I should leave his comfort zone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u5	Mr António Leitão Amaro of the PSD, to whom I give the floor, was included for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to make a little trip, if I may. on November 10, 2016, Catarina Martins, Mrs. Deputy, lands at Portela airport, on an Aeroflot plane, with her friendly smile,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u7	From Aeroflot? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u8	... coming from the side of the wall territory, but worried, because there was no solution or find out who would solve the problems of lack of money to pay the state accounts, the salaries of civil servants, pensions... But Catarina, on that day, is happy because she has already decreed the nationalization of the bank, energy and transport companies, has already restructured public debt unilaterally with 60% cut, has already decreed taxes for everything and now she thinks of taxing the air that breathes people with some incomes, a heritage, even if it is the savings of her work. But it has also made labor legislation walk 30 years back, it has already frozen the incomes, it has administratively fixed energy prices and agricultural prices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u9	Is that the Panda channel? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u10	... has already decreed the absolute gratuity of everything the State produces, although still hesitates what is the new tax it will create to pay the bill. It has already closed all educational, health and social support establishments that are not owned and managed by public authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u11	It's been too long, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u12	What is it, for Catarina, about people's free economic initiative? the private institutions of social solidarity? of mercy? And even in public institutions, such as schools, decreed collective management. He ran with these evil traders of IPSS and Mercy, because he does not understand how it is possible that someone would want to help others without having an income with it. But every time unemployment increases, it hires a few thousand more people for the state machine. He also cut the Atlantic ties, left NATO, decreed that Portugal ceases to do and participate in free international trade. And if the people complain, they proclaim another role of abstract rights, as if human beings lived by empty proclamations. I know this sounds like a dream to you, but it's not! In order to achieve this fantastic path, it is enough to implement the agenda of the Left Block which was the election. Sounds like a nightmare to me. But today, at this time, on the morning of November 10, this is still a preventable nightmare. And, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, the truth is that the Portuguese have already talked about this nightmare, or programme, and 10 % have chosen - he and 90 % have said no. Tomorrow, actually, I don't know. But wait, perhaps, the Left Block has changed, just like Catarina has changed! Because, a few weeks ago, he said that he ruled who had the largest number of Members in Parliament, that the largest parliamentary bench was ruling. But it's changed! Or, wait, maybe it's for convenience. They have learned well with your new road partner: when it is difficult times, "it is quiet"; see the previous leader: he made the difficult way, the way of the stones and when he doubled the end of the storms, "give here, it is my time"! Exactly the same thing, the same convenience for the country. We took the country in a difficult situation, we recovered it, we gave it back autonomy to decide and when we sent the troika, they called: 'Give it here,...' — convenience — '...it is my time'! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Perhaps it is in this convenience that we see the «meal of the same bag». But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this program in which the Left Block believed was not chosen. The Portuguese spoke! It is true that here, yesterday, they also spoke and we have seen the first discussion between Catarina and Mário Centeno... Members, of course, this is no disrespect, but the Portuguese, each with their choice, have chosen a path of sustainable recovery, job creation, what was happening and what is still going on. The Portuguese spoke and chose that who ruled was Pedro Passos Coelho, and the honourable Member once again wants to transform 10 into 100, wants to transform his micromajority, which is not a majority, in the will of the people, and the will of the people was not that. But the people know and will be here to judge them next time! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u13	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u14	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, I must say that I was waiting for you to begin your question for a fault, saying « we, PSD and CDS, were not only in the government to harass the country,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... but all our narrative about tradition, legitimacy of governance and what we, as a party, have done is lies». On the motion for rejection No 2 / VIII of the VIII Legislation in 1999 said the PSD to the Socialist Party — which had 115 Members, more than eight of whom had the sum of the PSD bench with that of the CDS, which had passed from 112 to 115, which translates a growth, unlike the PSD and the CDS-PP, which went from 132 to 107 — that the Socialist Party's Government Programme was exactly the same as the electoral programme they had presented, which did not deserve the majority membership of the Portuguese, and that this only held them accountable. Thus, PSD and CDS rejected that government. Now, what we see is that this addrabice is the ignorance of its own history. On this point, Mr President, not a word! It would be hoped that the PSD and the CDS, with all the state pose they would still have, would say: « No, it is true, we are giving arguments that are not valid and the whole idea of tradition is just a fallacy that has no adherence to reality». That's it, zero, sir! On the idea that we now have 10 % to condition the 90 %, I put the opposite question: you want 38 % of Members of this House, i.e. 107, 230, to all the others. Isn't that a little extreme, sir? Oh, my God! Isn't it a bit exaggerating in math accounts? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] And why? Only because PSD and CDS are not well associated with the election result. That's all, sir! That's all! [[PSD laughter.]] I must say that I could even become aware of the matter if I had not known what they did to the country for four years. But, knowing that, I know that it was just the electoral defeat they had in the polls, and the only conclusion we can draw is that, in fact, an alternative is desirable and welcome to the country. Finally, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, I would like to say that democracy is expressed by the result of the election of Members and Members in this House. What we have always said and what is contained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic — which only now seems to read, in fact Tresler, because they have never known it for four years — is that if they elect Members and Members of the Nation, not from districts or regions of the nation, and that their responsibility is before their electors, the government must come to seek legitimacy in order to govern. If your Government Programme is rejected, it falls. Now, it is precisely this democracy that is being built today, here, that which the Constitution foresees and, now, that which has been formed on the basis of an alliance much better than this self-proclaimed team of governance. It is the « arc of the Constitution », where even the PSD has been one day, but it has long forgotten! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u15	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: It was the struggle of the workers and the people that brought us here. It was the courageous and determined struggle that the Portuguese workers and the Portuguese people stopped over four painful years that led the PSD/CDS government to political and social isolation. It was this struggle that made clear the legitimacy of its policies, which denounced the unfair and unequal character of its options and the dramatic dimension of its consequences. It was this struggle that brought together those who felt affected in their rights and offended in their dignity, creating the conditions for electoral defeat inflicted on PSD and CDS, with the loss of their absolute majority. Woe to us if we now close the door that the struggle of the people has opened! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u17	in the last four years, we have seen in this country an enormous national effort that we all have to recognise and value: the effort of millions of Portuguese people who have not yet given up their rights, facing the government that was suspicious of them; of workers and reformed, who have fought to defend wages, pensions and other rights that have been cut; of unemployed, young people and precarious workers, who, wanting to build the future of their lives and have only their labor force, have fought for employment, for effective employment, for wages and hours of rest; of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen, who have fought to maintain their activities and their livelihood; of intellectuals, artists, researchers, who have fought for social and professional valorization of their professions; of populations who have fought to defend their schools, their health positions, their phreguess and so many other fundamental goods for their communities. It was these millions of Portuguese who defeated the PSD / CDS government, affirming the unity where the government sought to sow the division, overcoming the hope where the government used the threat and wanted to impose fear, defeating with action and fighting attempts to impose conformism and resignation. It was these millions of Portuguese who built in the struggle and confirmed in the vote what they wanted: defeat the PSD/CDS government and affirm their aspiration to a policy that responds to their concrete problems. The electoral defeat of PSD/CDS, with the end of its absolute majority as a result of the loss of 700 000 votes and 25 Members, was the electoral confirmation that this was a defeated government long ago. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The PSD/CDS government has long been a government without legitimacy. By violating electoral commitments, by ruling against the people and the Constitution, by not having a political and social basis for support that would enable them to pursue their policy of exploitation and impoverishment, it has long been an isolated and defeated government. And there has been a long time since he only remained in power because he was clinging to a parliamentary majority who did not have political and social correspondence and because he had the convenience of the President of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]] After last election on 4 October, PSD and CDS only count on the experience of the President of the Republic. But since this is not enough to maintain a government against the will of the people, we will have to confirm today the defeat of its Programme and prevent its entry into office, confirming the popular will. [[PCP applause.]] The way the PSD/CDS Government presents itself in this debate is, moreover, the best confirmation that it is a government aware of its defeat and that it cannot continue to govern. They have presented a programme that they do not dare to defend, so clearly it is the fact that they intend to maintain and aggravate the same policy that they have been making, without prejudice to a row of contradictions with their political practice that leaves their lack of credibility naked. They refuse to respond to any specific problem, seek at all costs to make the discussion off what should be their central concerns — the lives of people and the fate of the country — and do all the political discussion on an abstract plane using the only arguments they have used over four years: the threat, blackmail, drama and fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u19	They do not discuss their own Programme, wanting to convince us of their kindness. They just want to set the narrative that they have prepared for the future and that is based on seven false ideas. First false idea: that in the last four years, the PSD/CDS government has solved the serious structural problems of the country. They affirm this in a country that leaves a burden of EUR 220 billion in public debt; with real unemployment reaching more than 1, 1 million workers; in which 80 % of the new employment contracts are precarious and 20 % of the workers on behalf of others earn a wage lower than the national minimum wage; where there are 2, 8 million people at risk of poverty; a country from which 500 000 Portuguese, mostly young and more qualified, have been forced to emigrate. Second false idea: that now was the good time that the fruits of what was done behind them would be picked up. Yesterday's data from the INE on external trade in goods by September indicate a reduction in the overall balance of 11 % in the same period and, if we exclude fuels, the balance has fallen by 36 %. The economic growth indicated for 1, 7% results in only 1 % of the reduction in the price of oil. In other words, it is the price of oil that is camouflaging real economic evolution. On the other hand, no one realizes that fruits can be taken from the high level of public and external indebtedness of the country, from the control of national decision-making centres by foreign capital in companies and strategic sectors, which fruits can result from BANIF or BES that weigh as swords on our heads or from an increasingly uncertain budget execution in 2015. Minister Mota Soares yesterday referred to national institutions with 500 years of history. For the first time in 500 years, the State does not have a public mail service because the PSD/CDS government sold CTTs to a foreign company. [[PCP applause.]] These trees don't take great fruit! Third false idea: that, despite having ruled for four years to crush rights and destroy the country, it is now that the PSD/CDS government was available to be sensitive to poverty and misery that spread to the seven winds and to change attitude towards defending the national interest. By an absolute majority, they referred to the aging of the population as the "grey plague" ; now that they have lost this majority, they speak of the "demographic winter". After they have avoided the allocation of adequate treatment to patients with hepatitis C, if they have devalued the suffering of patients who accumulate in hospital corridors and emergency waiting rooms, if they have approved final cuts in pensions, which have ended up falling by the Constitutional Court, planning soon to follow other cuts of 600 million in social security, they want us now to believe that they are filled with social sensibilities. They insist on the sale of the TAP even if they are in management; they involved the State as an avalist of debts resulting from the ruinous process of delivery of this company; they assigned a sub-concession of the STCPs by direct adjustment already after the elections; they swarmed the structure of the State with boys appointed in record time; they hired to sell the New Bank a specialist in dismantling and selling public property whose place of former State Secretary had not yet cooled and they wanted to convince us that from here on they would strongly defend the national interest. The simple test of such proclamations would have an unbearable cost in the lives and backwardness of the country that we cannot accept. [[PCP applause.]] The fourth false idea: that they won the elections because it was about electing a Prime Minister. They try to reduce the elections to a false dispute for the Prime Minister, for the most voted party or for the government, but the criterion they have chosen to affirm this victory has two fundamental problems: first, there is no such election and second, the majority will expressed by the Portuguese people was not that. What has really been decided was the number of Members that each political force has elected, the parliamentary majority that can be formed in the Assembly of the Republic and the institutional basis that has been created to support a given policy and the government that can take office. As much as it costs the PSD and CDS, the criterion for the formation of governments is in the Constitution and results from the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, it is not in the supposed electoral podiums of the newspaper sheets here branded yesterday by the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause:]] Fifth false idea: that only a PSD/CDS government is a legitimate government and that any other governmental solution is illegitimate, especially one that does not result from a pre-election coalition. in a framework where they do not even have conditions to enter into office, they accuse of illegitimate other governmental solutions that can meet these conditions in the wake of and respect for the will expressed by the Portuguese people from the composition of the Assembly of the Republic. After having spent four years justifying that, despite political and social isolation, the PSD/CDS government should remain in power because it had a majority in the Assembly of the Republic, now that they no longer have that majority try to find a different criterion to justify an identical result. The sixth false idea is that, in order for there to be an alternative to the PSD/CDS government, someone has to ignore its program and its political coherence. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] in this respect, there is the influence of the CDS — hence its laughter! — which has not yet been able to understand that contributing to the formation of a given government solution does not have to imply that it is excluded from the Programme, from independence, from political objectives or from coherence. Not all parties feel the pressure to move from Euroceptics to Euroconvicts, as the CDS did in 2002 to replace places in the government of Durão Barroso. [[PCP applause.]] And not all parties agree to shift from taxpayers, pensioners and farm to carracco pensioners, farmers and taxpayers, as the CDS did in 2011 to integrate the Coelho Pass Government. [[PCP applause.]] Finally, the seventh false idea is that there is only one choice: a PAF government or chaos. The tremendousness and fear that PSD and CDS seek to characterize the consequences of a government that does not correspond to the language of threat and blackmail with which they have related to the Portuguese in the past four years. Moreover, in this respect there is at least one appropriate choice in the government. Today Minister Costa Neves, a year ago PSD member, compared a debt renegotiation proposal with the end of the Internet connection to the outside and with the end of access to YouTube. He may end up being considered moderate in this government cast! Open... [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Members, as mentioned earlier, the Government Programme is a proposal for continuity and intensification of the policy with which PSD and CDS have aggravated exploitation and impoverishment, deepened injustices and inequalities and imposed the degradation of the democratic regime, now mixed by convenience with a reasoned contradictions with its political practice and without the point of credibility. The Government Programme confirms the many and strong reasons for the PSD/CDS government not to enter into office, not only because of the damage it has caused, but also for those who wanted to continue to cause the workers, the people and the country. Rejecting the Program and defeating the PSD/CDS Government are the first steps to achieve the will of the people. To recover rights withdrawn, to achieve progress corresponding to the aspirations of workers and the people are objectives for which the decisions of this Assembly of the Republic are not sufficient but for which they can make an important contribution. It is not time for the people to defend themselves, it is time to move forward to achieve these objectives. This is the responsibility which must be assumed and which the CFP will assume. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u20	Mr João Oliveira, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from the Members. Deputies Miguel Santos, from the PSD, and Francisco Mendes da Silva, from the CDS-PP. In the meantime, Mr João Oliveira informed the Bureau that he wanted to respond together to the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Miguel Santos has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u21	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, the CFP has lost the elections, and has lost them with fewer votes than those it has obtained four years ago. [[PCP protests.]] Although the official doctrine of the CFP has not recorded any electoral defeat since 25 April. For the CFP, since 25 April, somehow it has always won the elections. But the PS also lost the elections. The PS went on to ask for a victory, and he lost. The PS presented a candidate to Prime Minister, and lost. The Portuguese did not want Mr António Costa as Prime Minister — he lost all over the line! — and, now, promotes a circumstantial arrangement to overcome defeat. I can't win and I can't lose. He has lost, but he wants to gain strength; he has lost, but he has to find a way to win. And how does the PS get a way to win? Through a solution of extreme-left, placing itself in the position of hostage of the parties of the extreme-left, because it is the only way of Mr.António Costa to realize his will to eventually be prime minister, dragging with it the entire Socialist Party behind, which is justified by the fact that we all know: that this is the only means of Mr.António Costa to remain quietly leading the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u23	We all understand, and the country also understood, that you all agree. BE, PCP, The Greens and PS all agree to overthrow the current government. But the question is the next day and the next day we know what Mr António Costa wants: he wants to be prime minister. Mr João Oliveira, your colleague Jerome de Sousa, on 27 September 2015 stated the following: « The PS insists a little on the idea that we...» — the Communist Party — «... should give a little thought. “Choose where they could yield.” Should we give up on the renegotiation of the debt, on the budget treaty? If it's about this, don't try, it's not worth it."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u25	Mr. João Oliveira, after all, who gives the way? Is there any way or is there no way? It's just that we need to understand what the PCP wants, because there's a nebula here. The CFP — and the honourable Member is proof of this — maintains a dogmatic, orthodox, unchanged, unmovable speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u27	I wonder: what now? What about what you do not want to talk about, i.e. the main axes, such as the euro and the budget treaty? Mr President, I will give you three examples. Draft resolution No 354 / XII ( 1. ( a ), which proposes the renegotiation of public debt, of the CFP's authorship, was rejected with votes against PSD, PS, and CDS-PP. What are you guys gonna do with him? They're gonna put him in the drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u28	You're going to have a lot of disappointments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u29	Draft resolution No 1063 / XII ( 3 ) ( a ), which recommends that the Government initiate the process of disengagement of Portugal from the budget treaty, the authorship of the Portuguese Communist Party, obtained votes against PSD, PS, and CDS-PP. What are you guys gonna do with him? They're gonna put him in the drawer. To conclude, draft resolution No 1112 / XII ( 4. a ), by the authorship of the Portuguese Communist Party, proposes the increase of the national minimum wage to the 600 € in January 2016, which, as you say, is already there. Sir, what are we staying in? What's the PCP gonna put in the drawer? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u30	Mr Francisco Mendes da Silva has the floor to ask for clarification. Mr Deputy, being your first intervention in plenary, I wish you the greatest happiness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u31	Mr. President, thank you very much. This is indeed the first time that I have spoken in this plenary, so I should like to refer a very special compliment to all those present in the House, including Mr President, of course, Mr Prime Minister, to the Members. Members of the Government and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. I have a brief question to ask Mr. João Oliveira, but whose answer may, by definition of a contrast, stress the legitimacy of the Government's programme which is presented here to allow us to know whether this is the programme that best respects the political centre out of the elections and, in this sense, the one that best respects the election results. It is a question about such a "common position" that the Portuguese Communist Party prepares to sign with the Socialist Party. In other words, contrary to what has been promised to us, it is less than an agreement and much less than a coalition. Mr President, I ask you: what does this 'common position' say about European Semester, euro, budget treaty and, crucially, what does it say about State budgets or budgets? Does it say that there is an obligation to negotiate but without an obligation to result or does it, on the contrary, say that there is an obligation to viability, the only one that guarantees the value of stability? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u32	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Miguel Santos and Francisco Mendes da Silva, I am grateful for the questions that have raised me, not without making a regret and leaving a note of joy. The regret has to do with the fact that you are. Members, despite the intervention I have made, insisted that I do not discuss strictly any aspect of the Government Programme. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u34	They do not seek to contradict any of the ideas concerning the situation of the country, your lying propaganda, your illusions, the evil that they have done to the Portuguese for four years. They're not trying to break any of this! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The only thing they bring us here is a desperate prospect of keeping hold of power because yes, without any justification. On behalf of the resolution on the problems of people's lives, this is a pity that I have to leave here, because the debate on the Government's programme should be around the problems that Portuguese have in their lives, giving them an answer. I also leave a note of joy concerning the requests for clarification which have been made to me. I believe that we should be flattered by the concern expressed by the PSD and the CDS with the maintenance of our nature and identity, especially in the context of the anti-communist and truly cavernic campaign that has been developed against the PCP. [[PCP applause.]] I am pleased that there is concern on the part of the PSD and the CDS, in which we maintain our nature and our identity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, perhaps that is the only thing I can reassure you about. They may be resting: the PCP will never be put in a position of incoherence like those I'm going to find out about you. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On the following day, on the common position and on the compromises, Mr Miguel Santos asked whether the CFP gave the 'heavy' and Mr Francisco Mendes da Silva made his question more concretely. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that, with what is going to happen today and in the next few weeks, perhaps we can create another perspective of the parties' contributions to the formation of government solutions that do not go through a logic of inviting fellows to the route by seeking to liquidate them or by trying to break their spines. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, there is a big difference that was visible in the discussion made in recent weeks between the PS and the PCP : neither did the PCP try to convince the Socialist Party to abandon its positions, nor did the PS try to persuade the PCP to give up its Programme. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We already realize that this causes a great inconvenience, because you used to build government solutions on the base of coalitions, leaving the spine to the CDS, which in some way had to justify that you accepted to stay with the spina go off and lose consistency with the positions you took. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members wanted to ask questions, but they are not interested in the answer. It's only on record until and for who you're listening to. The process of discussion between the PS and the PCP was serious and committed to seeking political answers to the problems of the country, to the problems of the Portuguese, to the immediate problems that arise between the workers and the people, assuming that, in relation to the convergence, this convergence was recorded and, when it did not exist, obviously that it did not register, and none tried to break the spine to the other because of this. You know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what you have done in this debate of the Government's Programme, solutions to the specific and immediate problems of the workers and the people have been discussed at those meetings, which, in the time when we decide and not in the time when you want to divert the centre of this debate, will have an opportunity to know. [[PCP applause.]] Finally, I address in particular Mr Miguel Santos, who has decided to quote a statement by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, but could have mentioned so many others in which he said very clearly the objectives with which the CFP presented itself to the electoral struggle. The first objective was to defeat this PSD and CDS government and the second objective was to create conditions to contribute to a policy that, in fact, responds to the problems of workers, the people and the country. Mr. Miguel Santos, these objectives are not disconnected from each other. We know that a policy that responds to the problems of the workers and the people can depend on a lot, and it depends on an immediate head: interrupting the governance cycle of the PSD and the CDS, defeating and resigning this government in order to create conditions for another policy to be achieved. And that first goal was achieved. As for the second objective, we are working for him,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u35	Ah, there's no deal yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u36	...and it was for this purpose that we had this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u37	So, there's still no deal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u38	Obviously, this is a matter in which the availability of each one is decisive. And you know why, Mr. Miguel Santos? He wanted — and we understand why — that in the challenge that we put to the Socialist Party we would put the matters of divergence to the head and say "without this there is nothing, without this there is no possibility of responding to any problem in the country! From there the differences were recorded, and you remained in power. But we did the opposite. Looking at the correlation of forces in this Assembly of the Republic, realizing that it could emerge from a government solution other than the PSD and the CDS-PP and that conditions were created so that a policy could be adopted that responds to the problems of the workers and the people and the country and that it is, in fact, a lasting solution, realizing this, we are willing to make our contribution, and that is what we are doing for your irritation and for your discomfort. Finally, Mr Miguel Santos, a little more rigour in the statements he makes here. See that the CDU did not lose votes, increased votes in relation to the 2011 legislative elections. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u39	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u40	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members and others present in this Chamber: I would like to continue to discuss some questions of the Government's programme which I saw yesterday not clarified or were not answered. I would like to address an issue which is in the Government Programme, which deals with the continuation of the sector's wager in renewable energy. I wanted to say that not all renewables are positive from the point of view of environmental impacts, I wanted to talk about depreciative aspects that close hydropower and talk about the National Barrage Plan. For the NAP, it is incomprehensible how the National Barrage Plan has not yet been suspended or, at least, how there has not yet been a weighting or a possibility of weighting regarding its continuity. The goals of this Plan have already been exceeded and the productivity of these dams is marginal in the Portuguese energy system — we are talking about 0, 7% of primary energy. For the power that is produced by these dams provided for in the National Barrage Plan there are other solutions: an investment about ten times lower in energy efficiency would have the same impact as this Plan; an investment five times less in the power increase of existing dams would make us achieve the same objectives. With regard to the Dam de Foz Tua, which is not yet completed — many people forget about it — the NAP would like to say that it constitutes a cultural attack, an environmental attack, a social attack, a crime of read-fatherhood. I know that at this stage of the debate the Government is not obliged to answer questions, but I am leaving in the same question already asked to Mr. Prime Minister and the Government: if I sit with you for an hour and prove that, financially, it is more feasible to suspend and stop the barrier of Foz Tua, did you order to suspend your construction so that we do not rent a millenary valley? Regarding the issues of non-conventional therapies, which were not answered yesterday, I would like to say that these therapies are only available in the private sector. Portuguese citizens are eager to have access to the freedom of choice enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the Health Bases Act and the laws relating to different therapies and therapists. Health professionals are exempt from VAT payments, however this does not happen to specialists of non-conventional therapies. Now, once again, this puts the users and professionals of non-conventional therapies at a disadvantage in relation to the use of other health areas, causing damage to one another, to others or to all. When is it expected that this area of health will become equal and equal to all others? Another issue that has not been answered and that has been addressed by the NAP has to do with the transgenics, with the genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Transgenics are living beings artificially created in the laboratory that bring many unnecessary dangers: health hazards to people, imbalances to nature, impacts on conventional and biological agriculture due to contamination and damage to the economy, because they increase corporate control over food, among others. Many are the risks and impacts already known without any advantage to the consumer, to the environment or to future generations. The principle of caution must apply, at least, and until that time the GMOs must be prohibited.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u41	The Minister for State and Finance has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u42	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members: In 2011 the last Socialist Government led the country to a pre-banking situation with no capacity to ensure payment of wages and pensions. Portugal is now undeniably better, after the sacrifices made by all Portuguese in the last four years. All indicators demonstrate this: unemployment drops to lower values than we have inherited; employment increases; consumer and business confidence is at most many years; the rate of well-being continues to increase; exports have the greatest weight of GDP; tourism increases in numbers of tourists and in revenues year after year; compulsory education reached 12. the year and the school failure declined; the number of students who entered higher education this school year increased significantly. These are just a few examples that mirror the reality of our country, whose positive evolution is recognized by all those who accompany Portugal. Only the opposition doesn't want to recognize it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The consolidation of public accounts plays a central role in this framework of improving and restoring confidence. Without controlled public accounts, without a consistent and credible trajectory of reducing public debt and reducing deficit, confidence and credibility are lost, the economy is resuscitated and with it public finances, investment falls, unemployment increases and we return to the point of departure and to the inevitable sacrifices. in the last four years, the attention of Portuguese has been as never focused on the evolution of deficit and public debt, the variations of interest rates, the assessments of international rating agencies. This happened because Portuguese people were painfully aware of the effects on their lives of these variables to which they had previously given so little attention. To the attention of the social communication and citizens, to the growing scrutiny of our creditors, whether they are European partners, the IMF or markets, the PSD/CDS Government has responded with a certain path of control of public accounts and full transparency regarding the evolution of expenditure and revenue. The successive reclassifications of public enterprises, integrating them into the perimeter of the public administrations, responsible for most of the increase in public debt, ended up in the final end with past budgeting practices that had so many negative effects. The recorded value of the debt is higher today, but it is representative of the real obligations of the State and not only of the part that was intended to be known. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u43	Any government today has the opportunity to start its mandate with full knowledge of the budgetary reality, without fears of surprises that prevent it from achieving the results promised, but above all without excuses for its own failures. Only the opposition doesn't want to recognize it. The budgetary implementation data are available directly for the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, which operates here in Parliament. The Council of Public Finances, created by the requirement of Pedro Passos Coelho, still as the leader of the opposition, also independently assesses the evolution of public accounts and the prospects that are based on future commitments. The European Commission, the IMF and the ECB, like the European Stability Mechanism, follow closely the development of national accounts every six months, with post-programme monitoring missions in Portugal and in the context of the European Semester, to ensure our ability to pay the debt contracted, our ability to meet the commitments of the Budget Treaty but also, above all, to detect and correct in a timely manner the deviations from the consolidation and growth path that will prevent the repetition of the threats of bankruptcy. All believe that the exit of Portugal from the Excessive Deficit Procedure this year can be achieved with a deficit of not more than 3 %. Only the opposition doesn't want to recognize it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The need for consolidation of public accounts is not an ideological issue; it is a matter of realism and, above all, responsibility! The rigor in the management of public money is required by respect for taxpayers' efforts and national interest, much more than by international commitments. It is true that the Budget Treaty imposes demanding goals and behaviours, but it is no less true that it has deserved voluntary accession and convinced a overwhelming majority of the elected Members here, right here, in this Parliament. And that was because everyone recognized that it is in the interest of the Portuguese today and tomorrow that the efforts are made and because we all know too much that the deviations from the consolidation path, by those who seek short-term political gains, will be paid by us, by our taxes, with the loss of our jobs, with the reduction of opportunities for our children, condemning the next generations to precariousness and uncertainty. The indiscipline of public accounts undermines the trust and credibility that we know well if we lose so quickly and it is so difficult to regain. Without confidence, without political stability, companies do not invest, without fiscal predictability international investors opt for other destinations to create wealth and employment and the social inequalities that persist will be worse, social security will be more unsustainable and the National Health Service will be threatened. This government does not decide and does not work for the markets!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u45	What we have done over the past four years is to work for the Portuguese so that we are less and less dependent on the markets, their perceptions and their behaviors, which for a long time conceal the risks that we are taking and which abruptly rob us of confidence and penalize us. But the importance of markets is not diminished with rhetoric, accusing them of being just an aggression of ill-intended speculators. Markets represent the savings of other citizens and businesses, other countries seeking investment opportunities. Markets are the source of funding that enables us to gradually reduce the deficit, avoiding the unimaginable gross costs for the Portuguese in a forced immediate budgetary balance. But markets are also what enables the financial system to obtain external funds to give credit to our families and businesses, since national savings are not enough to finance economic growth. Reducing market dependence can be reduced by reducing the deficit and public debt, by honouring the commitments made and generating confidence, by reducing the interest rate and the perception of risk. This is not, unfortunately, what we are seeing in recent days. The reduction of interest rates frees resources for the functions of the social state, for the protection of the most disadvantaged, for education and health, for productive investment. Whenever trust breaks, when investors fear that we have no will or ability to pay the debt, they are no longer available to give us their funds and the threat of bankruptcy is real again. Let no one doubt : if Portugal is again forced to resort to a programme of assistance — a fourth rescue, not a second, in less than 40 years — the sacrifices for which we will all have to pass would be much harder than those left behind. And you don't even have to imagine what would happen. Just look at what sadly has been the recent history of one of our euro partners, Greece, and the cost that the alleged end of austerity and rebellion against the rules of Europe has and will have for the Greeks today and tomorrow. What have you gained from this experience? More recession, more poverty, more unemployment and increased dependence on the European institutions and the IMF, the only ones still willing to grant the credit that the country needs to avoid the absolute misery of its people. The Government programme we presented yesterday in this Parliament places, as we have always done, above all the best national interest. It continues the path already begun to recover income and reduce the tax burden on workers and businesses. It does so with the gradualness that responsibility requires, assumes the commitment to return income more quickly, if possible, without compromising what has already been achieved, and ensures that the recovered income enables tomorrow to plan safely and confidently, that what is now recovered will not be withdrawn later, twice, always more painfully for, once again, correct the mistakes of those who promise what they cannot fulfill and of those who place particular interests in front of the interests of Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Government Programme we present sets out a path for consolidation of what has already been achieved, puts the highest priority in the fight against social inequalities, which crises always aggravate, supports the paradigm change achieved in the last legislation of a more open and competitive economy capable of facing the globalized world. It contains measures to combat medium- and long-term challenges, such as demography and sustainability of social security, health, education and training, the competitiveness of the economy and the sustainability of the European social model in which we are concerned. It contains the measures which, throughout the legislature, place us safely on that path. It includes Portugal in Europe and the world, enhancing our role and our opportunities in global dynamics. The Government's programme ensures stability, responsibility and commitment to our European partners, before the institutions which Portugal is part of, before those whose values we share and which we must also defend. But more than everything ensures stability, responsibility and commitment to the Portuguese people who work today or are no longer in active life and to the Portuguese of tomorrow, who demand from us that we deliver the country in better conditions than we receive it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The democracy in which we are just proud to live defends the differences of opinion, the differences of vision about the model of society we should have, the differences of vision about the economy we want, but above all, defends respect for the sovereign vote of the Portuguese. We all know how to honor the responsibility entrusted to us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u46	In order to make requests for clarification to the Minister of State and Finance, eight were registered. Members and the Minister have informed the Bureau that they will respond in groups of four. Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u47	Mr President — whom I welcome for the first time in the presidency of this House — the Minister of Finance, Portugal, needs a commitment, needs stability, needs predictability for citizens, for families, for businesses. That is why the Portuguese on 4 October said 'no' to the instability, to the social fracture, to the economic disaster which meant the governance that the Minister here represents. The stability of which he speaks to us was marked by three unconstitutional budgets. The mark of permanent instability is fiscal instability by the enormous increase in taxes, by 80 tax changes. What is now the legacy of its governance is the second largest deficit of the whole European Union, 7, 2 %, and the third largest public debt, 130 % of GDP at the end of 2014. The challenge for the construction of a reliable horizon is support for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is safeguarding employment, so affected by taxation to 23 % of companies in the restoration sector, it is safeguarding justice in the taxation of income, it is defending the home of those who are executed and the unlimited increase of VAT. The time for instability, the amending budgets, the permanent confrontation with the Constitution has ended. The time has come for construction, confidence, justice and recovery of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u48	Mr. Eduardo Cabrita, thank you for the words you spoke to me. To make requests for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u49	Mr President, Minister for Finance, over the past four years this country has witnessed the arrogance of a majority and a government convinced that apart from itself there is only chaos. And everything served to convince the people that there is only chaos beyond the right. It served the blackmail of rating agencies to the European Commission, to the scholarships, to external investment—still today, we have heard these arguments—, served the deception and served the manipulation. We do not forget to hear the Minister tell us here, in this House, that it would be possible to cut 600 million in social security. For never again, neither in the campaign nor in the presentation of the Programme, have we been able to discuss, or know, the real plan of the right to social security. Mistake and manipulation! We do not forget — and the Minister came here to present a list of good indicators and we would have the same, but bad ones, to present, if we wanted — as they tried to hide from the country the data of unemployment and emigration, even to the point of cutting, and we knew this today, the funding to the Observatory, which had the courage and the boldness to disseminate the data of emigration before the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u50	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u51	Breaking political confidence was what the government justified. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They wanted to do with emigration data the same aldrabice that they did with the monthly overtax indicator. Before the elections, the refund of the surcharge was 35%; in the month following the elections, the Portuguese learned that the refund of the surcharge was 9, 7%.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u53	Tell me, Madam Minister, what is the forecast of the overtax data, now that you are presenting a programme that knows that it will be plummeted and that it will not be government. The manipulation of this government is necessary for one reason: only manipulation can sustain illusions. The Minister told us here today that budgetary consolidation is not ideological. It's, yeah, ideological! It is ideological in the dimension as it is done, in the unemployment that causes, in the poverty that causes and to the cause of poverty and is ideological in the way it is done and in the political choices that are made for this fiscal consolidation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u54	The Programme presented to us here chooses to maintain pension cuts and increase the overtax by 2019 — even though the Constitutional Court has said that wages were to be returned next year — but at the same time, taxes on the profits of large companies are reduced by 20 %. Is this or is it not an ideological choice, Mrs. Minister? It is logical that this is a choice: to punish work and raise taxes on large companies, as has happened and how it will continue to happen. The Minister came here to teach us lessons about discipline, seriousness, truth... But we also remember how this government assured the Portuguese that BES would not bring one hundred costs to the taxpayers, as well as how the advance election campaign went out to this government. Now we know that not only will the New Bank need more capital, adding to the EUR 3900 million—and the banks have already said that they will not pay that increase of capital—as Banif's bill will come out more expensive than what was thought. What is the invoice, Minister, of such disciplined management, of these promises that neither the New Bank nor Banif would bring costs to taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u56	Madam Minister, this is the last time we have discussed this model here, and I cannot hide my enthusiasm for it. This does not happen out of the ill will of the Left Block, it happens because more than 700 000 people have stopped relying on their government to defend national interest, they have preferred to rely on other Members, who have equal legitimacy to build an alternative in which stability does not come from blackmail against the poor, where security comes from the stability of incomes, the return of wages, the stability of dignity and stability that only hope can give to people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u57	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u58	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I begin by complimenting you. Let me ask you two questions. The first is whether or not it is true that this government inherited a deficit of more than 11 % in 2010...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u60	... that Portugal is in the process of having a deficit of less than 3% and therefore exiting from the excessive deficit procedure, if this does not mean lower interest for the State, for businesses, for families and if therefore it would not be criminal that any government did what it needed to achieve this goal in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u62	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you, concretely and directly, whether you are in a position to guarantee that this Government will do everything possible to ensure that the 3% target is not exceeded. Second question: facts are facts. It is true that the Socialist Party programme presented to voters provided a debt higher than the government itself by more than 30 billion in 2019. But now the program on the left gets this amazing thing: more spending, less revenue and low deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u63	Miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u64	In view of this, Madam Minister, I see three possibilities here. First possibility: the miracle. We know they exist. Are there miracles in public accounts? I'll leave you the question. The second possibility is that the Excel of Socialists is still the same as that of Eng.o Socrates who, before the elections, in 2009 lowered taxes, increased wages and led us to bankruptcy? Maybe it could be a possibility. Third possibility: are socialists already forecasting a higher growth than the one originally planned, therefore, the result of the action of this government and the good way of our economy? It is because, Mrs. Minister, in front of these scenarios and in front of these alternatives, if it were true that less revenue and more expenditure gives less deficit, I propose that this plenary approve the PS's candidacy at the Nobel Prize in Economics and that it go through the five corners of the world to beg for this new novelty. The PS knows how to do better, better and better. With less revenue, more expenditure and less deficit, the Nobel Prize is for them, of course. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u65	In order to make requests for clarification before the reply of the Minister of State and Finance, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u66	Mr President, Minister for Finance, this government has been responsible for the most brutal and deepest fiscal attack on labour incomes there is memory. As a result of the reduction in the number of IRS steps, the significant increase in the tax rate at each step, including at the lowest step, in the limitation of deductions in health, education and housing and also in the extraordinary overtax, in a single year the government increased the tax burden on workers' income by EUR 3200 million. A brutal increase in taxes which was presented at the time as temporary, but which the Government intends to perpetuate. In addition to the promise to eliminate the extraordinary overtax in the long term of 2019, we do not find in the Government Retrieve Programme any intention to reverse the colossal increase in labour income taxes. This is a government which, having been defeated by the struggle of workers and in the polls, insists on the perpetuation of politics, condemns Portuguese workers and people to impoverishment and Portugal to social regression. Mr. Minister of Finance, the Government claims that there is no budgetary strike to reverse the brutal increase in taxes on labour income, but there is already a budgetary strike to reduce for six consecutive years, I repeat, six consecutive years, the rate of tax affecting companies' profits. Mr Minister, explain to the Portuguese this option of the Government to crush workers with an unbearable tax burden, while reducing taxes to large businesses and economic groups. Mr. Minister for Finance, she also explains why on the eve of the elections she told the Portuguese that she would return 35% of the overtax of IRS, so that after the elections this value would be reduced to less than 10%. Please acknowledge, Mrs Minister, that the action of the Government has settled, for these four years, and continues to be based on lies and deception. in the Government Programme, Mrs Minister, there is no word on the situation in BANIF and BES / New Bank. The Minister cannot leave here without saying what will be the budgetary impact and on the lives of the Portuguese of the situation in these two banks. Finally, Mrs Minister, take advantage of your last presence at the government bench to clarify the Portuguese on the tax bill that the Government has recently given to the New Bank illegally and obscurely. by our calculations, this tax brokerage was at least EUR 445 million. Mrs. Minister, do you confirm this value? Mrs. Minister, there is money to give tax losses to bankers, but there is no money to reduce the taxes of those who live in their work. Mr Minister, where are the measures in the Government's programme to put an end to the dwindles and prosperity of the bank and large capital? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u67	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u68	Mr President, Mr Cabrita, you did not ask me any questions, but in any case I would like to remind the honourable Member that Portugal's performance in terms of deficit and debt is unfortunately very negative, because that is how we inherited it from the previous government. Just think, Mr, of a deficit of 11, 2 % this year will be below 3 % to figure out who is actually responsible for this sad record that our public accounts have had. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As for the ladies. Mr. Mariana Mortágua and Mr. Paulo Sá, as some questions are common, I choose to answer both together. With regard to the cost to taxpayers of the New Bank case, I suggest that you ask your new coalition partner, who apparently intends to put taxpayers'money in the New Bank. That's not what we did and with us that's not what's gonna happen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] As far as tax matters are concerned, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have been doing is actually lowering taxes. It is not true that taxes on work are not lowered, there is a reform of the IRS which aims, inter alia, to relieve families with dependents, whether they are descendants or ascending, and this is very important for all families that can benefit. There is the reduction of IMI, in the chambers that have chosen to do so, also for families with children, and this is a change that directly benefits those who work. Yes, Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, we believe that companies create wealth, create jobs, create value for the country. That is why it was possible to download the IRC and still increase the IRC revenue, which only proves that our strategy is indeed right. And it is not worth saying that it is for large companies and for large capital, because for these companies there is still an overtax of IRC, which is in the IRC Code, and which is not expected to be reduced at any point in our Programme. SMEs already benefit from a lower rate of IRC of 17 % today, Mrs Deputy. It is not true that we are benefiting large companies, now that we believe that lowering the tax burden on companies, within IRC, is the proper way to promote the creation of wealth and employment, yes, Mrs Deputy, we believe, and the results we are seeing both in the growth of investment, or in the increase in IRC revenue prove that we are right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u69	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u70	... as much as it costs you to accept, Your Honor. with regard to budgetary strikes to reduce other matters, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is our biggest concern is not to go back, it is to return what can be returned without questioning what has already been achieved, because, as I said in my speech, the last thing we want is to go back to the previous experience of, on top of the elections, having a salary increase of 2, 9 % to three months later, we will be cut 10 %. We don't want that! We return what can be returned, so that people, with confidence, can schedule their future and do not have to suffer the shocks of always paying for the mistakes that are made. Mr Duarte Pacheco, we reaffirm our commitment to have a deficit of less than 3% this year. In fact, as you say, it would be criminal if anyone who came to take account of public finances before the end of the year did something to challenge this goal, because it is for the benefit of the Portuguese and in the interest of the Portuguese that this goal will be achieved. It is in these circumstances that we have public accounts, with transparent information and that everyone will be able to consult, that is, they will not only need to believe in our word, there are many ways of verifying, in a completely independent and autonomous way. With regard to the question of how it is possible to make this square of the circle — more expenditure, less revenue and growth — in fact, Mr Deputies, in literature, I am a lover of magic realism, I really like many Latin American writers, but magical realism in macroeconomic scenarios seems to me an exercise that, apart from having nothing playful, has a lot of danger. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] But we'll see how we can get what we can't. I am afraid, Mr President, that it will only be achieved in the role, because the reality will prove that it is not possible in fact. Mr Mariana Mortágua says that "without us it is chaos", but I sincerely hope that it will not be. We are Portuguese, we work here, we live here, we raise our children here, and I have a lot of hope that it will not be chaos. I sincerely hope that anyone who assumes responsibility will not cause chaos, because we will not fail to warn who this responsibility is. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now begin the second round of requests for clarification to the Minister of State and Finance. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u72	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, indeed the financial evolution of Portugal in recent years has been very significant, but this is one side of history, the other side is that it has also been very, very difficult. What was achieved was with effort, with sacrifice and, above all, built with the hope of all Portuguese or many Portuguese. With the hope that it was possible to overcome the problems, with the hope that we could not go through what we were going through again, with the hope that Portugal was not systematically condemned to be a country among the poorest in Europe, a country with chronic financial problems, a country always plagued by instability or problems. It was this hope and it is this hope that many Portuguese have been able to materialize and it is this hope that it is important not to lose now, because we are in fact in a new cycle and obviously nobody questions it, nor does anyone question the recovery of income. What we have often heard in this Chamber is such an absurd thing that it becomes unbelievable. There is no government that is pleased to cut, no one who is happy to cut, quite the contrary, we all want not only the recovery of income but that Portugal has more and more means, that it is possible not only to recover but to increase income. What matters is to discuss how we do it, so that it will be forever, because, as the Minister of State and Finance said, well, we all have in mind moments of recovery of income before elections which quickly turned into income cuts after the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u74	We want a gradual recovery of income, because we want a recovery of income forever, we do not want a recovery of income until the next elections. It's this abissal difference that separates us! It is also important to say that I have often heard here in the social state over the past few years, as I have heard a lot in this debate of the Government Programme. I'd like to tell you, Mrs. Minister, that talking is one thing, doing is another, completely different. I believe that whoever defends the social state most is the one who guarantees the conditions for it to continue to work, not the one who talks a lot about it, but then leaves the country in the state of not being able to pay pensions or wages. That is not to defend the social state! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u75	Failure of the State is the greatest attack on the social state that can be done, and this has happened in Portugal! Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to say the following: we can discuss here whether or not the deficit is an ideological issue—of course, it will be a very interesting discussion—but there is one fact that it is indisputable that it is that having deficit means that we have expenditure from the State that is not paid by tax and therefore the money to pay has to come from somewhere. This is not an ideological issue, it is a fact. It is the supreme irony that those who, in rhetoric, are more against the markets are precisely those who, due to the increase in the deficit, want Portugal to continue to depend on markets and foreign markets. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is the supreme irony and it is the supreme irony that many parties here will have to explain! Yes, because making a government agreement and a government coalition makes it necessary to leave the comfortable position of those who always comment and criticize for the position of responsibility of those who explain what they are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u76	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u77	We will then see who will be up to responsibility, but, in this debate, what I have seen was very critical, much to say how it should be done and very little to assume responsibility for how it will be done. My question is very specific, Mrs Minister: if we deviate from this path which the Government's programme envisages, which is a path of economic recovery, as far as rhetoric is concerned, this path of economic recovery and gradual recovery of income, if we return to what is, for some, the budget party and for others, the absolute budgetary imbalance, what will that mean, from the point of view of moving back and that we may be questioning not the incomes this year but the incomes of the next 10 years? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u78	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u79	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the despair with which the right is presented in this debate, in view of the understanding of the PS with the parties on the left, recalls the situation of a bride who was exchanged by another on the eves of the wedding and now shows her frustration, proclaiming that the desired one will not be happy with the left and could only be happy with the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u81	I also want to note here another date, another intimacy of Mr. Prime Minister with the President of the Regional Government of Madeira. To meet Dr. Albuquerque's personal ambition of power and the pretext of Madeira's hidden debt, it was combined, and applied, a very hard plan, a double austerity. This was the region of the country where the biggest increase in taxes occurred and is currently the region of the country where the unemployment rate is higher. Those who suffered were the Maderians and the responsibilities for concealing the debt, these, they continue to hurry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u83	The Prime Minister, this year, has already visited Madeira twice, contrary to what happened in the previous four years of his mandate, in which he completely despised the Madeirans and never set his feet there. Madeira faces a huge and unsustainable debt. For 2016, 30 % of the regional budget will be consumed by the debt service. There is no budget that does not support public services that bear charge sizes! This Government programme says nothing about this problem. As for the renegotiation of the debt, it is taboo for VV. Ex. Paying the debt, yes, sir, costs what it costs; saving people's lives, that, no. Nor will the Madeira Regional Government and the Madeira PSD make any claim at this level, as it is obvious. As Dr. Albuquerque must favor the Prime Minister, for the help he received to ascend to power, now he has to pay those favors and the way to do it is to be quiet, not to raise waves, not to defend Madeira's interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Another important issue, Mrs Minister, is the financing of the State to the new Funchal hospital, because the Regional Budget, given what you have already stated, has no margin for investment. The PSD-Madeira, during the campaign, gave the hospital for construction, only because of the circumstances of being enrolled in the electoral program, Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister, Paulo Portas, went to Madeira, in campaign, to ensure that the hospital would even be built, but now—it turns out! — we look at the Government programme and there is nothing but a vague expression that will promote the re-evaluation of priorities in the construction or expansion of hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u85	So the new Funchal hospital has disappeared in this Government Programme and what is worth to the Maderians is that this government will also disappear quickly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u86	To make requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, to whom I apologize for not having given the floor before.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u87	Mr President, Madam Finance Minister, it is clear that there is no point in asking you about the tax bill to the New Bank because you definitely do not want to talk about it, which makes us even more concerned. But Mrs. Finance Minister says they've been working for the Portuguese for four years. Mrs. Minister, the truth is that the last four years will be marked by the most serious and monstrous tax injustice there is memory. Let us see: while, for those who work, the government has been brutally increasing IRS taxes for values, in fact, absolutely immoral, for large companies has not been able to relieve taxes — first, it has lowered the IRC from 25 % to 23 %, and then from 23 % to 21 % — a tax drop, it is recorded that it has only benefited large companies. While, for those working, the Government has not been tired of reducing the amounts, within IRS, in terms of deductions, whether of education or of health, but also of housing, for large economic and financial groups it has offered large and immoral tax benefits. For example, they extended the exemption from gains and profits transferred abroad; they reduced social participation from 10 % to 5 %; and increased the period of loss reporting from 5 to 12 years. While the Government applied an extraordinary overtax to which it works, it was unable to apply the financial transaction tax, which was, in fact, provided for in the State budget for 2014 — and was authorized by this House to apply it — of only 0, 5 %. To that end, the government was unable to apply this tax, because what was of interest was to move in the incomes of work. In fact, the tax burden on those who work and pensioners was such that the government was obliged to look for formulas to hide the real size of the tax battle. And the formula found was to pay 13. the month in twelfth, with a very clear objective: so that the Portuguese did not feel the true clash and the exact size of the tax burden. Mr Minister, the government says that the IRC drop for large companies is made on behalf of competitiveness. But we know, and the Minister will certainly also know, that both the Banco de Portugal and the National Institute of Statistics, in the studies they have done, say that the obstacles to investment have nothing to do with matters of a fiscal nature. The major obstacle to investment is called « search ». If there's no search, there's no investment. And we know why there's no search. Because the PSD/CDS government in the last legislature has literally spent four years dealing with families. So, there's no demand, so there's no investment. I would like, Madam Minister, to be able to put forward something on the government's balance sheet on this low IRC for large companies in five percentage points. And I say it's for big companies, because we know that this low IRC is just for big companies because small and medium-sized companies don't get there. Madam Minister, it is curious that in this Government programme we cannot find a single word about offshores. It seems to us that it does not make much sense that there are places on the planet that continue outside the reach of States and where the judiciary does not enter. And so it is permitted that as long as immorality continues to reign so that some may live in real tax havens, generality lives in real tax hell. We know that this depends not only on the Portuguese Government, but we also know that the Portuguese Government, if you wish, can raise the issue and raise the problem both in the European bodies and in the international bodies it is part of. Since the Government Programme has nothing to say about offshores, I would like the Minister, if she could tell us something about this, which is a real attack on fiscal morality. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u88	In order to make requests for clarification to the Minister of State and Finance, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u89	Mr President, Minister for Finance, in a debate on this Government's programme, I must begin by confessing some frustration over the fact that I am forced to address the two questions that I bring only to Mrs. Minister for Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque. in fact, I would like to be able to confront these issues, in addition to the Minister, with the other two elements which, in the previous government, set up a true hooliganist troika, which tried to resolve the issue of the privatization of transport companies until 4 October. I speak of the former Minister of Economics, Pires de Lima, and the former Secretary of State for Transport, Sérgio Monteiro. Whether they had the courage not to take on their responsibilities and to sit next to them, whether they had refused to play the role of the historical recreation of Egas Moniz figure, as a messenger ready for sacrifice—in this case, with the privatisations to the neck—the truth is that they were dealing with their video by accepting the friendly hand of the State, and therefore left the Minister to answer two very simple questions. The first is this: after accompanying the Secretary of State for Transport on a sort of road crossing against road PPPs and from this having invoked the negative effects that bring to public finances, she considers the Minister that the current sub-concession processes are what? Are the good PPPs against the bad PPPs — and we have had the former Secretary of State negotiating these PPPs on the bank side and soon they became bad PPPs — or will we have the repeat of the swap contracts that the Minister knows well and that are no more than financial PPPs? Do we have here a review of the history of the good bank and the bad bank? This leads me to the second question: the risk of the operation. Mrs. Minister, what is the risk of the private in this business? Is there any chance that the Advanced will receive less than it is established in the minimum safeguard clauses? I save you the answer: there is no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u90	Is he alive now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u91	How do you count this narrative of false ostriches? In a simple way and as if it were a two-time engine. in the first place, the dirty game of the destruction of companies is made, the cover of a supposed restructuring process under the action of a hooliganist brigade, placed in front of these companies, whose only concern was to put their men by hand, destroy consolidated work processes and lead many workers to resign, subjecting them to a revolting moral harassment, shot at the wings of the company, acting as ghettos, until they signed their resignation. Then, in order to ensure maximum safety in the receipt of income, you will approve the ports where transport revenues are met for the next eight years. This will be the minimum part, because the rest comes from the payments due to availability, i.e. payments with a zero risk, that the amount is not exactly known, but that may represent at least a quarter of the total. How does the Minister explain that, for example, in the revenue to be delivered to the concessionaire, an increase in gas oil is 20 % of a correction factor for these revenues to be delivered to the concessionaire? How does it explain, for example, that an increase in the overall level of average wage for work in the country amounts to a correction of about 50 % of the amount to be paid to the dealer by the so-called ‘available payments’? If it were not the radical hooliganism of this government's privatization fury, which, by the way, intends to extend the public company Infrastructures of Portugal with the road and rail infrastructures, anyone who defends the public interest will only end up thanking a future alternative government for the immediate braking of this public safe deposit and for the public management of a good that is of everyone and for the service of everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u92	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, I would begin by replying to Mr Heitor Sousa that I have no doubt that History will be responsible for thanking those who defended the country for a bankruptcy situation and for putting the country back on a growth road. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As regards the restructuring of transport undertakings, Mr President, after the many explanations given in this Parliament, I think it is so obvious that the absolute need for restructuring that these companies had to spend the time of our debate explaining other matters. with regard to a specific issue which Mr. José Luís Ferreira has put to me and which I have not yet responded to, that of the financial transaction tax, it is indeed important to clarify. As regards the so-called « fiscal bill » to the New Bank, Mr, I have already responded to this until the exhaustion. Until we had a commission of inquiry to the resolution process of Banco Espírito Santo. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] I know that repetition has its merits, but, in the interest of time, I ask the honourable Member to do his best to review the many times I have explained it. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] But, in fact, the financial transaction tax is a matter that needs to be clarified. Portugal is one of the 11 euro area countries which are implementing what is called the 'intergovernmental cooperation model' and which will allow the creation of financial transaction tax in these 11 countries. within the framework of the ECOFIN and the Eurogroup, I have participated in meetings of these 11 countries to discuss this matter. Also, who is currently in the forefront of the technical discussion on this point is a Portuguese REPER technician who is working directly with the European Commission to be able to take this process forward. Therefore, Mr President, the financial transaction tax will be implemented when there is agreement between these 11 countries, because that is the commitment we have made. On the issue of offshores, I look forward, anxiously, to see, in a future government programme of a future and hypothetical left government, what actually appears there. to Mr Paulino Ascenção, who asked about Madeira's hospital, I will say that investment in the next legislature is in fact planned and that is part of the Government's programme. But, Mr President, just to clarify, with regard to this repeated accusation that we only care about debt and markets and we do not care about people's lives, we must not realize that it is the people who pay for the dismissals of those who are not careful, who are not responsible for securing funding. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And everyone in Portugal knows too well for me, Mr President. Finally, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, with regard to the risks of a deviation from this expansion road, I will say the following: at the moment, what we have is a consolidated situation. We now have a financial margin, a financial reserve — a full safe, so you know what I am talking about! — almost EUR 7800 million, which enables us to cope with next year's repayments of debt which was incurred long before we arrived here. That, in fact, gives the Portuguese a great deal of peace. The deviation from this route, when these margins do not happen, would have a much higher price — indeed, we have paid it in the past and we know very well what it is. As far as income recovery is concerned, there is only one doubt that, eventually, the Socialist Party can clarify: if it is possible to restore the salaries of the Public Administration and achieve even better results in the deficit, why does the PS not start by promising? Why, if possible, didn't they do it from the start? And we have ideological problems, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u94	Mr Mário Centeno has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: After what we have observed over the past four years, the simplest way to define the vision of the economy presented in the Government Programme is that of cynicism in the form of empty. The Government Programme is a hand full of nothing and nothing else. There are no commitments, for example, on the minimum wage; it is vague in what is said about Europe; there are few numbers and the few that are not right. Public debt at the end of 2015 will be 125 % of GDP, Minister for Finance? Have you ever sold the New Bank? Or will you have Dr. Sergio Monteiro, with his millionaire pay — plus a clean way out — sold the Bank last week without us realizing it? [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there is a lack of troika to your government. For four years, with the apology of the troika, they instrumentalized the institutions of the Republic, lived in the dictatorship of « no alternative ». The Portuguese right has always confused democratic supervision with blocking forces. It aims to « suspend democracy ». I use a brilliant phrase from Mia Couto to the government that we now say goodbye: "The difference between recession and expansion is that in recession the poor are the first to lose; in expansion the poor are the first to not win". [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we have a smaller country today. We're less. Since 2011, 350 000 Portuguese have emigrated. in the third quarter of 2015, we lost more 55 000 Portuguese workers. I heard again the voice of Adriano Correia de Oliveira: « This part, that part, and everyone, is gone». Today, we have a poorer country. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Almost 1 million Portuguese people receive the minimum wage, a minimum degraded wage. But the other Portuguese workers also saw their income fall, a reality that this government tried to hide to justify cutting the minimum wage. Yes, because in an act of propaganda "sold" to the IMF a chart from which the Portuguese were eliminated whose salary had been cut by more than 5 %. My gentlemen, more than 25% of all workers have been eliminated from this chart. This is not how politics is made in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister yesterday complained that austerity had been imposed on him, but austerity, when it is ideology, is a choice, a destiny for you. Was it or not Mr Prime Minister who recently regretted having just failed in reducing wage costs? Is this austerity or redemption? [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the destructive will did not stand by the labour market. The thousands of small companies that have shut down in the last four years are witnessing this. I am sorry to say to you, Prime Minister, but these companies did not have a clean exit. They were companies for whom their liberalism meant increases in taxes and energy income, closing them the national market only for a belief that sin lived here. That is why between 2013 and 2015 imports of consumer goods grew 30 % — imports — and domestic production of these goods to the national market fell — fell, heard well — 5, 3 %. Today, imports are at historic peaks, but the economy is smaller. The ticks of authoritarianism he revealed over the last few years did not lose them on October 4. Just because it was thanks to that, he lit up a farce that he likes to call « negotiation ». It is false, I repeat, it is false that the Socialist Party has not been willing to know more about your programmatic intentions. Faced with 58 questions, they didn't answer any. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we continue to find no answers in the document they call « Government Programme ». You have left the financial system inoperative, the decapitalised banks and unable to support investment, the bank failure of families and companies at the highest levels in the history of Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Less than a month after the biggest political and economic embezzlement mounted in Portugal with the clean exit in May 2014, the second largest private Portuguese bank fell with a huge shock. In no other financial system in a European country has such irresponsibility, but the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance had nothing to do with this. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] After all, it was only the government, and it was in time. They really were, My Lords. Most of this House is not yours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, the idea of Europe that we bring with us is a solidarity Europe, where countries are not divided by income, but interact with a common ideal of prosperity and civic rights. Portugal has returned to the indicators of poverty, social exclusion, job insecurity, underpaid employment, education. Portugal has lost Europe in the last four years. The Government's programme, which we have justly dismissed today, does not solve these problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party believes that the economy can only grow in a context of financial responsibility and in fulfilling its obligations. The Socialist Party assumes its European responsibilities and will honour all the country's commitments. Portugal needs another policy. Portugal will have another policy. [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u96	Mr Mário Centeno, I would like to congratulate you on your first intervention in this plenary and to inform you that you have no requests for clarification. For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u97	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament and others present in the Chamber : from the reading I made of the Government Programme, I would like to address an aspect which is related to the protection of minors and to a certain violence that is practised on children, i.e. the violence that is practised in the Tauromachia. The age classification of shows is merely indicative, so it does not guarantee the effective protection of children and the fulfilment of the Declaration of the Rights of the Child. In addition, children of all ages including children under three years of age have access to the benches of bull markets in clear violation of Article 26. the Decree-Law No. 23 / 2014 of 14 February, which attend numerous episodes of great violence not only with animals, horses and bulls, but also with artists. The system of access and exercise of the activity of Tauromachian artist and Tauromachic show assistant, which establishes the minimum limit of 16 years to touring, opens an exception for the performance of forked and amateurs of all modalities, allowing the participation of minors, through an authorization of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u98	Mr President, you have already exceeded the amount of time you were given.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u99	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the exception was criticised by Amnesty International itself, through the Children's Rights Group, which considered that this diploma violates the Convention on the Rights of Children. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u100	For an intervention, Mr Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate Mr President, the Members of the Bureau and all the Members of Parliament who begin their duties in this Parliament, a Parliament, we all realize that it is absolutely unusual. Let's start right there. in the space of a month, which is almost nothing in historical time, were beheaded and reduced to dust all the conventions that allowed, over 40 years, a code of life in common in this House, a collection of rules of mutual tolerance and democratic cordiality among all and for everyone the benefit of the institutions and their fidelity to the people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u103	... a set of simple, but wise, written or practiced conventions, but never previously ignored or overturned that have allowed over time the regime to function, governments to govern, to the oppositions to control, each in the linear consequence of the popular will, which is the first foundation for all of us here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It will be so, and a conservative has no difficulty admitting this, that traditions evolve and that societies change. Nothing more true. But, as the best democracies in the world prove—and a progressive should not have difficulty in recognizing this—the rules of the institutions should be stable and should be permanent. A convention is not a mere tradition that time can turn into an object of museum or exotic curiosity. Conventions are the way forward from the institutions, ensure that each one has its own function and that none is exercised in contravention of the people, who are the sovereign. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] All of them apply both to victory and defeat and to them all commit themselves as a majority and as a minority. A month ago the people voted. A month later, the functioning of our institutions became unrecognizable. At least five conventions were broken that had nothing to do with surfaces or accessories. First, the convention that those who win the elections will rule the country. Secondly, the convention that those with the most deputies preside over the House. Thirdly, the convention that an elected government has the benefit of doubt and sees its programme not rejected. Fourthly, the convention that our regime is semi-presidential of jure is not merely de facto parliamentary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u105	Fifthly, the convention that a euro country does not place the epicenter of governance on the dependence of parties or coalitions that legitimately do not believe in the euro or want to leave the euro in the first corner. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Breaking all this can satisfy those who think they are experiencing their peculiar 1917 or living what they consider to be their private assault on the Winter Palace. [[PS laughter.]] With all due respect, the overwhelming majority of Portuguese did not vote on any of these adventures on October 4. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Using the right to indignation, it must be said that this instrumentalization of institutions to serve short-term objectives and with a nature of faction is mathematically possible, even if it can be formally constitutional, but it is surely politically illegitimate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This legitimacy is to prevent the relative majority who won the elections to force a relative minority government that lost the elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The people do not recognize themselves in this fracture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u106	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u107	... many Democrats with different voting options are horrified or simply distressed with the consequences. Those who know something about History realize that the wheel axis of the regime has changed, not being slightly to the left of the centre or slightly to the right of the centre to land vertigously to the left of the left and clearly on the periphery or even in opposition to the fundamental international options that characterize free, democratic and European Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Adelino Amaro da Costa said, well, that the moderates use the change to avoid rupture. The path chosen by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party was exactly the opposite: he did not accept defeat; he did not draw from defeat any consequences; he did not negotiate good faith with whom, by chance, he even won the elections;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u108	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u109	... dissipated the possibility of marking, with your ideas or proposals, a majority of commitment; preferred to put the country unusually waiting for the central committee of the CFP now, and perhaps in the coming times! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u110	Just the PCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u111	He wasted the opportunity to give the Portuguese the rest and the hope of putting the government, that, yes, legitimate, on the reasonable dependence of what the socialists would at every moment be acceptable. And, curiously, in this debate, which served as the first debate of what has been designated as a "new paradigm", the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party did not give the body to the manifesto, revealing how far the wound of illegitimateness scares him and how far it shrinks the perception that the real will of the people was thwarted by the declared will of the directories. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] of which there is no memory, no one knows the end. But he recommends caution and even the fact that he has been the party leader for more time in office that leaves you some feeling than this experimentalism closes. To break all conventions without proposing others which, prestablely and legibly, replace them is unwise, but opens a precedent. I cannot yet believe those who accuse the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of being suddenly affected by a kind of "Gusmão syndrome": former prime minister for a while, than the leader of the opposition for life! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But if that is true, then one day the same or similar maneuver will happen to him and as high as the one he wanted to throw away without the people to raise him up. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And it is even possible that this happens by the hand of those who have helped him, in the face of the impassable coherence of those who are now undergoing scrutiny because they have won the elections. You may agree or disagree, but at least you can do so. The Secretary-General of the Socialist Party has chosen the path, I repeat, of what is mathematically possible, of what is formally constitutional, but of what is politically illegitimate. He also chose his traveling companions. If that path prevails, only count on our coherence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u113	And if you go further, if you are afflicted, if you fail to manage the explosive pressure later — you can believe that it will be explosive — of the demagogy in competition between the BE and the CFP, on the one hand, and of the realism and commitments in Brussels, on the other hand, do not come to help. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] For us, with personal respect, but with political frontality, it will be, if possible, a politically illegitimate prime minister and it is so irresponsible what he is doing that he will have to solve his problems in front of the losers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We've been the firefighters of your rescue twice. [[A great truth!]] [[A great truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u114	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u115	Your conduct is similar to that of the pyromans of the regime. We will not be complicit in that consequence! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You can suffice—and it seems enough—the conch of the directories. For us, the legitimacy that the people have given us is enough. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, apart from the issue of legitimacy, there are two others who deserve a brief note: that of stability and that of confidence. of stability — we, who have won the elections but do not have an absolute majority, have sought stability within the coherence of fundamentals, with concessions, with transitions, with commitments, with openness and, above all, with a positive willingness to compromise. I'll borrow Vasco Pulido Valente the definition of your maneuver: it's not a government, it's a management! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is not a coalition — it has already been seen! — so little will be an agreement, because there will be several. It is supposed that, for several, it is because none will be exactly the same; if none is exactly the same, it is because the parts do not compromise in the same way. It is so difficult to reconcile the inconclusive that even in the motions of rejection had difficulty in making one. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And we all realize that in parliamentary ways it costs you very much to applaud each other,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... although saying this, I am certainly in favour of Dr. António Costa, when there is no longer any opportunity to ask him questions, I deserve a salvation of palms. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It will be very curious to check what such a common position is about between the PS and the PCP. Does it have an obligation to make budgets, stability programmes or the rules of the budget treaty viable? Then we'll know, because that's where stability is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u116	He's dead to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u117	The obligation to seek support previously would have any government without an absolute majority, but an obligation of results and viability is what would be expected of a majority that would not be merely negative, because it only contains sufficient elements of stability and consistency. If there were such, the PCP would have stopped being who it is, although for that the PS seemed to be available to stop being everything that was. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] However, if they still delay in showing the political agreement, it is because some fragility will have. I fear that the management leaves Portugal, its credibility, its economy, the fate of our compatriots, at the mercy of the six-monthly meetings of the central committee in Soeiro Pereira Gomes,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ...fully respectable, but what a strange irony in the 21st century! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] of trust — the former government was the overcoming of the ransom and the end of the troika. With the extraordinary effort of the Portuguese and the invaluable aid, never sufficiently grateful, to the country and to the Portuguese, to the social partners and to the partners of the social economy. The government, whose programme today goes to vote, is the gradual recovery of incomes, gradually to be viable ; it is the progressive moderation of taxes, progressive to be possible ; it is the bet on investment and exports, as the vanguard of a healthy economy, without disregarding, as the numbers already indicate, the proportion of consumption. Alternatively, what your management offers us is a kind of measure drinker, all running and, preferably, at the same time. Now, as we all know, drinks have one problem, it's called hangout. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u118	Your hangover!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u119	What they have to present is solely oriented towards consumption. Now, this is a short-term illusion, which does not make Portugal a prosperous country. What your project does not account for is the powerful impact that distrust can have on future growth, on faster investment, and therefore on job creation, which is the first wish of all. In globalisation, trust evaporates, because there are other countries prepared to receive the confidence that we will lose. In globalisation, investment and therefore employment are moving in an instant, because there are other countries ready to receive the investment and the job we lose. Moreover, in the rhetoric that brings us, there will be a new Europe waiting for a new policy. And I, who see Europe 'gripped' in the refugee crisis, threatened by the phenomenon of terrorism, at risk by the referendum in the United Kingdom, severely tested by what happened in Greece, just to quote the predictable agenda, I regret to say, but I do not see much space to understand a Portugal that is relapsed in excessive deficits and in control of public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u121	I may be mistaken and wish to be wrong, but I see in your rhetoric more the illusion of the first SYRIZA than the shock of reality of the second SYRIZA. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am absolutely concerned about the damage of credibility that all this can do to our country and our people. [[PS protests.]] Yesterday, when I read an international title, I quote, « Portugal, the new Greece? “ I got up. [[PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. PSD, PS, CDS, and PAN, we were, we are, very close to achieving it. To lay down everything to lose is to throw out the sacrifices that so many Portuguese have made. Today, you have the opportunity to enable a government that is politically legitimate. We shall wait, quite frankly, for your decision. And why? For the electorate has judged us; some of you shall judge history. [[On your feet, applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u122	Mr Vice-First Minister has two entries for clarification, which will be answered together. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u123	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, Portugal, and you have remembered it just recently, walked a difficult, demanding but hopeful path in the past four years. He left behind the socialist pre-bankrota, the troika and a draconian program of financial assistance, without a cautious programme, without a second rescue, without a recessive spiral and re-found the path of economic recovery, political stability and international confidence that allowed the Portuguese to return hope to the future. The clear signs of economic recovery multiply. The economy has once again grown and had even better growth prospects on its horizon. Exports from Portuguese companies beat records; unemployment fell to lower rates than in 2011 ; consumer confidence rates, entrepreneurs and investors have increased, today being at levels that the country has been indisposed for more than a decade. However, despite the enormous progress made, Portugal continues to face very complex challenges and no delays or setbacks. If we do not want to take away the sacrifices of the Portuguese and risk all that the country has achieved in the past four years, we must face and overcome these challenges. And there is a particular challenge that deserves particular attention, in fact, as Mr Vice-First Minister pointed out in his speech, which is that of Portugal's credibility and trust in its international partners, in front of markets and investors, in front of its creditors and financiers. You well know the immeasurable value of this credibility and international trust, because you know how difficult it was to recover it and also know how easy it is to lose it. So I ask you what the government will do to preserve, consolidate and value this credibility and trust, or better, what it cannot and should not do to destroy and again throw the country into the hands of any troika and ask for a new rescue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u124	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u125	Mr President, Vice Prime Minister Paulo Portas, the Portuguese are already used to their playful exercises around political issues and governance solutions, but they will ask themselves today, in their homes, to hear it, whether or not you will have a political perception deficit on what has really happened in the last elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is that, Mr. Vice-First Minister, we socialists know what we are worth, we know how many we are. V. Ex.a, as PP leader, knows only that your party is a presumption, but does not know if it is a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The Portuguese also question what they referred to as « explosive pressure from the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens », and the Portuguese at home will think: but will this our Deputy Prime Minister not also have a memory deficit? Oh, my God! Is higher explosive pressure not the one you developed in the legislature that has now finished? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u126	Was it not for investors and for the markets what you did then? Oh, my God! It is that waiting for the decision of the Central Committee of the CFP has caused less damage in these sectors than the disturbance you introduced when you were in the government. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] And finally, Mr Vice-First Minister, the Portuguese, in their homes, thought this way: but how can he say, if the Government of Portugal is in trouble, 'do not come here to ask for help'? Oh, my God! [[PSD laughter.]] It's like anyone says, either we're in government, or it's all going down! We promise to hang out! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is his last deficit, his deficit is the lack of sense of national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP, having some Members beaten with their hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the conjugation of apartes makes it impossible to understand any of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u128	It's anecdotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u129	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u130	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, it is true that this debate goes a long way and so far reminds me of another story, the history of the toad and the scorpion. in this other story—more playful, it is true, Mr. Carlos César—to ask the scorpion to carry him to the other side of the river. He answers the toad, saying no, that he would not take it to the other side, afraid of carrying a deadly bite. Taking a thousand oaths that he wouldn't pick it up, the scorpion ends up convincing the toad, cutting it, even when it gets to the other side. And before the reason why, in suffering, the toad, the scorpion answers: it is in my nature. [[Laughing.]] Mr. Vice-First Minister, in this debate we already realize that the PS is a toad. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We just need to know...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u131	Who's the scorpion?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u132	...who will be the scorpion, if the Left Block, if the PCP, if even the Socialist Party itself, or even the three at the same time. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Vice-Primeiro-Minister, with the effort of the Portuguese, Portugal has already crossed the other margin. Portugal grows economically more than the euro area, consumer confidence has risen to levels of the beginning of the century and unemployment has slowly and consistently fallen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u133	Does unemployment fall slowly and consistently? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u134	The question I would like to ask, Vice-First Minister, is short and clear. last weekend we heard Mr.António Costa make accusations to the CDS, saying that the CDS had changed its position on Europe within 24 hours to be able to enter into what would be the government of Prime Minister Durão Barroso. But he said more, he also said that the left-wing agreement, this apparent left-wing agreement, would have the same legitimacy as the 2011 post-election agreement. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like you to comment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u135	What would he say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u136	... clarifying those who, as is too obvious, speak in fact without knowing what the CDS is. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u137	To reply, Mr. Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u138	Mr President, Mr. Luís Ramos, the role of this government is to preserve the confidence that has been gained. This confidence today considers Portugal as a country of reference from the point of view of overcoming a rescue and a financial and economic crisis — a crisis associated with this rescue and, of course, the consequence of it — as we live. Trust is manifested in the indicators that are known. The best indicators of trust since 2001 are that of consumers, there is no need for consumer shocks. The best indicators of trust in entrepreneurs since 2008 have shown in the growth of investment, which is perhaps the most critical indicator for the Portuguese economy, and in the transformation that has suffered, in a virtuous way, our companies who have turned abroad when they have detected too much recession or stagnation in traditional markets, internal and some Europeans. Today exports account for 43, 5 % of GDP at constant prices; a few years ago they accounted for 28 %. All this is easier for trust and all this is at risk for distrust. I just want to say, in the name of what I believe, that a government that is dependent on the souls of the Communist Party does not inspire confidence in the economy, investment and job creation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr César, I would like to begin by correcting it slightly, naturally welcoming your election for this function. He said: « We socialists know how many we are, you, what you know is that your party is a presumption». Well, counting the votes on October 4, we, coalition, are 38, 5 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u139	Like the CDS-PP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u140	... VV. Ex. Socialist Party is 32%. I mean, we won and it wasn't for a little bit. VV. Ex. They lost and it wasn't for a little bit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u141	I had to go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u142	That's with the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u143	But if you want to compare the political blocks, then you have the humility to warn the people... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u144	...and, next time, let's run, we, in coalition and, you, in front left and we'll see who wins! Let's see who wins! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, Mr Carlos César, Mr President of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to say the following: yes, this coalition has had difficult problems, like any coalition, and you have already made several. Yes, we've overcome the difficult problems we've had. Yes, this coalition was the first to complete its mandate and to apply as such to the following mandate. Yes, this coalition is proud to have received the majority vote from the Portuguese people, which you cannot say. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, allow me a very slight correction. You say 'or we are ruling, or everything goes below'. I apologize a lot, but the attitude of the Socialist Party, which reminds those boys that only play football if the ball is from them, is this: we lost, but either we are ruling or not governing who the people wanted to choose! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] to Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I just want to thank the opportunity to clarify, because I find it strange. I have known the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party for a long time and I find it strange that he uses arguments that do not have sustainability in the facts. Yes, the CDS defended a referendum on the Maastricht Treaty and, in my view, logically, because it was the Treaty that changed the nature of European construction. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Yes, the CDS had Euroceptic positions. No, and it is radically false that you have changed your mind or evolved in your position in order to obtain, as you said, places in the Government of Durão Barroso. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u145	Why, sir? Because the review of the CDS position on this matter was carried out in 1998. I applied for the CDS leader to refocus the position of the Party in Europe, to accept the single currency before it begins. There were congresses, there were motions, there were votes, there were winners and there were even dissidents. That's what happens in a democratic party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u146	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u147	The sentence coming out of the Congress, four years before and two elections before the Government of Durão Barroso, is this: « The CDS will respect the single currency and will not propose the exit of Portugal from the single currency»! You, in the negotiations you are doing, cannot do the same — now, yes, within 24 hours! — not the Portuguese Communist Party, nor the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I was sorry to have made an ellipse in the argument, because it is not good for him — simply who consults the documents, he knows it was not. But, in any case, to conclude, Mr Deputies, there is really, as has already been suggested here, two small — small from the point of view of those who think they have won the elections, having by chance lost — substantial differences between 2011 and 2015. In 2011, who formed government was the party that won the elections. In 2015, what the Socialist Party wants is for the government to be formed by those who have lost the elections. [[PS protests.]] I'm not saying more than this, which is entirely legible. But, more, it is that in 2011 because of the ransom that you asked for, because of the troika that you called, because of the Memorandum that you signed, both the PSD and the CDS told the Portuguese people that they were available to make a coalition following the elections. Tell me a moment — except in such a Free Party, which did not elect anyone — when the three leaders of the three parties on the left front, or of the management, had told the Portuguese people before they were going to make a coalition. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They're two differences, and they're not small. It forms government, as always happened in 40 years, who won the elections. And the coalitions were previously admitted by the two parties that could form them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u148	Mrs. Member of the House, I inform the House that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the motions of rejection should be handed over until the end of the debate, which has already happened. Four motions for rejection of the XX Constitutional Government Programme were delivered, namely: the motion for rejection No 1 / XII ( 1. ( a ), submitted by the PS ; motion of rejection No 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), submitted by BE ; motion of rejection No 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), submitted by the CFP ; and motion of rejection No 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) presented by The Greens, who have certainly been all distributed. The Minister for Administrative Modernization has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on this occasion when I address Parliament for the first time, I would like to sincerely congratulate the members of this House of the Republic and to make good work vows in the Parliament which is now beginning. It is my duty to present the general guidelines for the new Government's strategy for administrative modernization. We are talking about one of the political priorities contained in the electoral programme of the Portugal Front coalition. The program, funded in the polls on 4 October, expressly assumes as one of the fundamental challenges for the new legislature to promote the efficiency of the Administration, in order to make it closer to the citizens and more business friends. It is not a political coward without content. The policy of administrative modernization should be a focused and targeted tool for solving the specific problems with which people and businesses face their daily relationship with the Administration. That is why it is a political priority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Before continuing, however, I cannot but emphasise here in this House that the concern about administrative modernization has been a constant concern of both the governments of the PSD and the CDS and the governments of the Socialist Party, whether they are majority or minority. It was this continuity, in fact, that allowed Portugal to take such solid steps in this area and ensure continuity of reformist policies. I'm talking about facts, not opinions. From the old Secretariat for Administrative Modernization, created in 1991, to the latest Simplex program, all proves this line of continuity. The same is true of the last government. The former Executive carried out a thorough review of the Citizen's Portal and the Entrepreneur's Balcão, created the Citizen's Map and launched the Approximar program, ensuring today the functioning of more than 325 citizen spaces scattered throughout the country. It is important to note that many of these decisions had the express support of the Socialist Party. It was therefore surprising that we found that in the electoral programmes of the European arc parties there is a clear convergence with regard to the concern with administrative modernization and with the Digital Agenda for Europe. The same cannot be said of the electoral programmes of the CDU and the Left Block, because this issue of administrative modernization is largely ignored. Whatever it is, what I know, what this government knows is that administrative modernization is an area in which Portuguese, all Portuguese without exception, want and demand the same: an efficient, non-bureaucratic administration and at the service of people and businesses. It is time, however, to look to the future. If it is true that much has already been done, it is also true that there is much to be done. We need to change, and we need to change a lot, how our administration works and relates to citizens and economic and social agents. The creation, in the organic of this government, of a minister or a pasta of administrative modernization is symptomatic. for the first time, there is a folder that has as its main task to define and implement a single and integrated administrative modernization policy, supra-sectoral and transversal to all areas of governance. The reason for this option is obvious: the study and the accumulated experience show that it is not possible to effectively modernise public services with a purely sectoral perspective. No one contests and is widely recognized at international level that today we have excellent measures in various sectors, but in order to fully modernise the Administration, a cross-cutting perspective is needed. Only in this way, with the highest level of coordination, will it be possible, in an articulated and integrated way, to build a better state, i.e. to build a more efficient and effective State capable of doing more and better, with the same resources. This is the bet we present today to the Assembly of the Republic : build an administration, capable of doing more and better, with the same resources. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us move to the real country. In practical terms, what does that mean? The answer for us is clear and is based on three structural pillars. We want a close administration, a simple administration and a digital administration. Proximity means, in addition to an administration that takes seriously the principle of decentralization, an administration that reaches all and leaves no one behind. That is, a state close to citizens, close to the most unprotected population and close to economic and social actors. The proximity goes by betting in shops of the effective citizen in each municipality of Portugal. The proximity requires social inclusion, requires an administration that is able to reach the most remote areas and people who, even in large urban areas, live in isolation. But proximity also means an administration close to companies and entrepreneurs. In addition to the Balcão do Empresador and the Continent Manager, it is necessary to create the figure of the Manager of Entrepreneur, ensuring, in conjunction with business associations, personalized care to economic agents, ensuring that good ideas and large projects are not lost in in infinable bureaucratic procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u151	But it's not enough a nearby administration, you need a simple administration. And a simple administration is an administration that trusts, trusts individuals and trusts in private initiative. We all know from experience that there is nothing more complicated than doing simple things. We must, of course, fight the temptation of overlaws and take seriously the challenge of legislative and regulatory simplification. Such an objective, not to be a mere wordplay, imposes a strict assessment of the impact of the laws designed and adopted. It also requires that procedures be simplified. It does not make sense that public services require citizens or companies documents already in their possession. It is unthinkable that the same person must submit, several times, in different services, the documents he has already submitted once. A simple administration, a trusted administration has to change the paradigm and extend the Zero License as far as possible. But administrative modernization is also digital. In the era of technological globalisation, the Digital Agenda for Europe itself requires an administration that is affixed to technological innovation and digitisation. The digital principle must be more than a sophisticated PowerPoint; the digital principle must enter public services. But the digital postulates and leads to transparency. We need to bet on transparency, we need to bet on a responsible administration, where citizens and economic and social actors know at every moment how much public services performance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time to conclude. I want to leave only two final notes. The first to mention that administrative modernization is done only with public servants. Public servants are the cornerstone in this reform process. Therefore, at this time when the Government presents its Programme in the Assembly, it is important that there are no misconceptions: this Programme not only counts with workers in public functions as a bet on their training and valorisation. Second and last note: we did what we had to do in these 10 days. We have a strategic vision for administrative modernization in Portugal. We are sure that this is the way. The word is now up to the Members. Members, it is up to everyone and everyone to decide in conscience whether they intend to help achieve this ambition or, on the contrary, whether they prefer an artificial rupture in an area where the parties of the European arc have always converged. [[PSD applause from the CDS-PP and some PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u152	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your first intervention in this plenary, and I would like to inform you that you have signed up to request clarification. Members Berta Cabral, PSD, Paula Santos, PCP, and Filipe Anacoreta Correia, CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u153	Blocked, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u154	That being the case, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u155	First of all, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have met in this House and therefore a greeting to all and good work votes. We live singular and unusual times. Times when the truth gave rise to half-truth, in which ethics is no longer what it was, when democracy became a reality of variable geometry where defeats are transformed into victories, in the name of undeniable interests, passing over the will of voters. Times when the reason of strength prevails and not the strength of reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u157	The Portuguese voted and said clearly that the PSD/CDS-PP coalition should continue to govern and that Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho should continue to lead the Government of Portugal. This was your will expressed in polls in free and democratic elections, as many as others want to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u159	It was the recognition of the merit, courage and determination of the Government that the Portuguese recognized. The PSD and CDS-PP, over the past four years, have always been at the height of events and, without trouble, have taken on the national plan to rescue the country and promote the balance of public accounts. The Government now taking up functions and having its programme under discussion today promotes the continuation of a government policy which has ceased to function and has led to the balance of public accounts, which has led to economic growth, which has led to job creation, which has led to increased exports and which has naturally and sequentially led to the recovery of the income of Portuguese and their families. The Portuguese recognized the effort made, understood the meaning of reforms and sacrifices and unequivocally stated that they want a free and democratic modern Portugal and that they honour their European and international budgetary commitments. To continue the reforms that have already begun and to promote deburocratization and decentralisation in order to make the administration closer and friendly to people and businesses is, as Mr Minister says, a political priority of this Government and this Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u161	Reducing the costs of context, promoting social and territorial cohesion, modernizing the productive fabric, promoting the participation of citizens in public and political life is essential for revitalizing the economic and social fabric and strengthening democracy. It's a task started, but it's never finished! Therefore, Minister for Administrative Modernization, I wish you every success in your duties. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u162	Finally, I would like to ask you one question: I would like to clarify this House on the relationship it intends to establish between the area which protects and the local administration, which is also under its guidance and protection. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u163	Madam Member, I am used to seeing you here in the Chamber, although in other functions, so I did not remember that this was your first intervention in the plenary as a Member. I therefore welcome you for this fact, as I have done with all the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u164	Mr President, Minister Rui Medeiros, it is not surprising that after this long period of debate it was necessary for the Government to be only 10 minutes away for the Minister to come and talk a little bit about some of the proposals he has put forward in the Government Programme. Mr President, in his speech, he has sought to speak to us of modernity, but of modernity with old options, proposals and measures which have already been rejected and which have led to the destruction of public services and public employment over the past four years. This government speaks of administrative modernization and justifies it with arguments of proximity, efficiency. Mr Minister, I ask: where was the proximity and efficiency of the public administration when the PSD and the CDS-PP decided to close schools? Where was the proximity and efficiency of public services when they decided to close health centers, services and valences in many hospitals? Where was the proximity and efficiency of public services when CTT posts closed, when they closed services out of focus in the area of the productive sectors, when they closed State Laboratories in the area of agriculture or until they died out? Where was the proximity and efficiency of public services when, now, in the Programme — and to which it did not refer — presented as a proposal the extinction of municipalities? As if he were no longer penalizing impoverishing our democratic regime and penalizing the populations, he also now wants to extinguish municipalities in our country. The administrative modernisation of which you have spoken to us is nothing more than a disresponsibility of the government for those who are their responsibilities and responsibilities. And this is very visible with regard to proposals for decentralization of competences for municipalities in the area of health, education, social action, where there is a clear deresponsibility of the government for those who are the fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u165	Madam Member, please conclude, because you have already exceeded the time of your Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u166	I shall finish, Mr President, with one last question, which I cannot but put. Nor does it fail to be curious, Mr Minister, to come here to the Assembly of the Republic, to speak in the valorization of workers when the PSD and CDS-PP in the previous government, what they did was to withdraw rights, was to destroy jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u167	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u168	... went to close services, went to put the public administration with fewer than 70,000 workers. Mr Minister, in fact, this is not how we provide better services to citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u169	To request clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor, to whom he also fulfils for the first intervention in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Administrative Modernization and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I also take advantage of this first intervention to greet them and wish them the greatest happiness in this legislature. Mr. Minister of Administrative Modernization, I begin by complimenting you and, through you, the whole Government for your words in the presentation here made by the Government Programme and, above all, for this political priority that the Government has taken in the creation of this Ministry of Administrative Modernization. when I heard it, I remembered someone who also had an important presence in Parliament : Francisco Lucas Pires. He said: "At first it was not the State but the Man—it was the Man, the Spirit and the Baroness... This is a truth in which the State will have to humanize—not the man who has to state himself". Humanize, modernize, this is precisely the priority that the Portuguese are expecting from us. That is precisely what the Portuguese expect of us in this debate, which today has the attention and concern of so many for the wrong reasons. Far from what has been said so much and which today has already been called « a reactionary agreement», a sad union of conservative forces, which has as its sole aim to maintain the status quo that the country can no longer pay. And this is all the more strange, when we talk about administrative modernization, because it is precisely an area that goes far beyond the exclusive concern of this coalition. Why don't you recognize him? In this area too, the Socialist Party has had an intervention and has made an important contribution and that we recognize in so many that today are on the bench. And it should not be precisely in this concern that it has brought us together to humanize, modernise and simplify the state, what should we respond to the Portuguese? Oh, my God! Finally, Minister, with this question: do you not think that this extended purpose is fundamental to continue to follow your path, or should it now be challenged only by a reactionary agreement?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u171	To reply, Mr. Minister for Administrative Modernization, Rui Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u172	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, first of all, I would like to thank you for your words and I would like to underline three notes which seemed very important to me in the context of your requests for clarification. First, I think you are absolutely right, because, in addition to a proximity administration, it is essential to continue the work. There are no illusions, administrative modernization is not by decree. Administrative modernization is a work that takes a long time and requires a long-term investment and a lot of people. So the idea that we did not invent the wheel, but that there is still much to do to make the wheel work and function fully, is absolutely certain. The second note is not about what you asked me but about having wanted it the greatest success, which was the subject of laughter and comment. In fact, it is as if this government will, within hours, see a motion for a rejection of its programme. I'd like it to be clear: we go in unscathed and we fall, if we fall, stand up! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The third and final note is taken with local administration. Local administration is, in fact, a central problem, an absolutely crucial concern of this Government Programme, and I must say, much has been done here in the last four years. Since 1999 there has been a decentralisation framework that remained intact until this government dared to move forward, and has dared to move forward as it should: in connection with the municipalities, not in a tax and unilateral way. Therefore, if there is a domain in which it has advanced and in which it would be important to continue to advance, against the resistance of some authorities and some autarchs, it is in the field of local administration. Mrs Paula Santos, just four notes to what you said. First, when I refer to, and articulating with the local administration, an administration that was not close, which has gone away, I take back what I said about decentralization: the administration of the last four years was an administration that approached, and I am not talking only about the spaces of the citizen, for example, about health centers. Some health centers have finished, but certainly, what has been rationalization, and if you do the final accounting, you will realize that in the end there were more health centers than there was. So the balance sheet is positive, it's not a negative balance sheet. Second note about what you said. His words began this way: "I am just curious now to talk about the Government's programme! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Let me tell you that I was here yesterday and today and what I saw, basically, was not the discussion of the Government's programme. I've been here to discuss the Government's Programme and I'm here to discuss the Government's Programme! Third : it should be noted that, as there is no discussion of the Government Programme, the theme of public servants is not that of the Government Programme, the theme of civil servants is the past, that is what the former Executive accuses, because if they read this Government Programme it is clear that it is said that the wager is in the valuation of public officials, in the differentiation of merit. This is « near-white » in the Government Programme. [[PCP protests.]] By the way, I'm leaving a fourth and final note. Since we are talking about the Government Programme — that is what we should be talking about — that is what I am focusing on, for anyone who wants to talk about the Government Programme, does not talk about the extinction of municipalities, because there is no reference in the Government Programme to the extinction of municipalities. What is said is that the interaction between the municipalities must be promoted and that if, voluntarily, the municipalities want it, there may be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u173	There's the aggregation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u174	The last words are addressed to Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, whom I thank, of course, for recalling the words of Francisco Lucas Pires, of whom I am an apprentice and who deeply admire. I must say that your statement that it is not the state that is at the center but that it is the person, that it is necessary to humanize the state and look at the people of flesh and bone is a concern that presides over this Government Programme. It is an approximation of the people of flesh and bone and, therefore, also of the most distant people, of the most unprotected people. The second note, which we fully subscribe to, is that it is unfortunate that the transversal dimension is lost, because, indeed, this issue of administrative modernization has always been a subject on which the parties of the European arc converged. And here there is no doubt: the European arc parties are PSD, CDS and PS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u175	Mr Minister, with no further inscriptions, we will interrupt the work, which will resume at 3 p.m., with the end of the debate and with the vote on motions for rejection. [[It was 13 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I ask the police authorities to open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the closing debate Programme of the XX Constitutional Government, after which there will be a vote on motions for rejection. For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members and all those present in the Chamber: at the moment when the debate on the Government Programme is closed, it is important that an appropriate and fair balance be taken on these two days of work, adjusting them to the imperative of change that the Portuguese have been asking for. The Programme brings some proposals that indicate slight adjustments to the deterioration of the sacrifices that we have been asked for. However, by deepening further in detail, we must not fail to consider that the same programme continues to the course followed by the government during the previous four years. We note that this Government Programme is increasingly emphasizing the intention to replace the notion of social status with a more supportive notion. As I have already had the opportunity to point out, we are pleased to see that there is the Government's concern at proposing measures to meet animal welfare. However, some proposals are in contradictions. In other words, the Government's programme confirms that animal welfare needs to be improved and, in other words, benefits producers' profits by speeding up trade procedures related, for example, to animal transport, without specifying the welfare conditions required by such practices. Market logic, through easy profit, was favored to the detriment of the protection desirable for these animals. with regard to our common home, nature, we conclude that its value remains associated with the commercial value it can generate. There were no concerns about the use of agrochemicals or the cultivation of transgenics, besides not having observed any indications that the National Barrage Plan, as defined, either to end or to be reassessed, for contributing to a set of environmental, cultural and social attacks and not improving the quality of life of Portuguese people. We also felt that there were no concrete measures to encourage biological production. in a government, the NAP expects a new direction that does not limit itself to mitigating the issues related to the worsening living conditions of the Portuguese but that it initiates a new paradigm of economic-social relations that does not base on the old dichotomy between capitalist exploitation and class struggle, and must not be their realization and happiness of the Portuguese being only proportional to their productive capacity. the debate here has highlighted the importance of a political-party awareness responsible for the alignment of agendas, deliberations and priorities. There are measures discussed here that can only move forward with the bold compromise of a broad agreement between protagonists and political forces that share the genuine desire to create sustainable alternatives in the various government axes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u177	Mr. Deputies has already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u178	I will now finish, Mr President. The NAP is willing to contribute as much as possible to these solutions with a single criterion: to raise awareness for fundamental social, ethical and ecological values, without which our future is put at risk, as well as that of the animals with us sharing the planet and nature. Human beings are not the measure of all things. It is our duty to ensure that we all contribute to a civilizational evolution through our actions to improve the well-being of people, animals and nature. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u179	For a final speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u180	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Life has these things. A government that has generalized precariousness now faces a truly precarious situation. A long-term government, which the Portuguese revoked on 4 October, now presents us with a programme full of false assumptions and from completely wrong premises. From the first paragraph of the Programme, it is stated: « in a clear way, the Portuguese said they wanted the PSD and the CDS to continue in their mission and to carry forward their commitment to work in this legislature ». It happens that the Portuguese didn't say anything like that, it wasn't the Portuguese who said that. Whoever wanted the PSD and CDS to continue their disastrous politics was the President of the Republic. The Portuguese said something completely different. What the Portuguese said on October 4 was: « we will elect 230 Members to the Assembly of the Republic, creating a new correlation of forces in Parliament, in order to prevent the PSD and the CDS from continuing in the government. We will create the conditions to break this cycle of right-wing policies, which have destroyed our productive capacity, increased social inequalities, widened the gap between rich and poor, aggravated social injustices, and put the Portuguese generality, practically, ‘bread and water ’”. This is what the Portuguese said on 4 October: "We do not want to continue to be victims of PSD and CDS policies". These election results must now be translated. It's democracy working. Whether you like it or not, these are the rules of democracy, and with them we will have to be able to live together. But the Portuguese not only strongly condemned the policies of austerity and impoverishment pursued by the right coalition, but also expressed a strong desire to change policies. It would therefore be irresponsible not to meet this new parliamentary framework, as if there had been no elections and as if it had all been the same. We well know that the parties that have committed themselves to the policies of change are based on different political proposals, have differentiated electoral programmes and are moving forward from different starting points as well. Still, in the face of the emergence of an end to austerity policies and seeking to meet the will of the Portuguese, The Greens have seriously and responsibly engaged in the discussion of a government programme supported by alternative policies, capable of breaking the cycle of impoverishment and the brake on the country's environmental, social and economic development. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as mentioned above, the PSD/CDS Government Programme is essentially marked by the disguised continuity of the « now it will be ». In good rigour, what the PSD and the CDS now promise is to fight the results of the policies they have imposed over the past four years. In fact, looking at the five fundamental objectives on which the Government Programme is based, newness is nothing more than rejection. Let us see: four years have gone by inviting or forcing our young people to emigrate and now promise to fight the « demographic winter». They have been punishing people for four years and sowing poverty and now promise to value people and fight poverty. They have spent four years destroying the social state and exacerbating social inequalities and now promise to defend and revitalize the social state and to combat social inequalities. They have been destroying micro, small and medium-sized enterprises for four years, promoting unemployment, reducing family income and purchasing power and now promising to strengthen the economy, job creation, increasing family income and purchasing power. They have been closing and weakening public services for four years to come to promise the qualification of public services. And these are the five objectives of the Government Programme, the only novelty of which is, as I have already said, discharge, the same Programme which, in fundamental matters such as the water sector, reaffirms the intention to continue restructuring this sector, making it more desirable for the private sector business, thus constituting a threat of privatization of this essential asset to life. at the level of nature conservation, everything remains the same, continues the de-investment and the « new organization », which were the factors that most affected the conservation and protection of nature. in combating climate change, continued inaction in relation to one of the sectors that contribute most to greenhouse gas emissions, transport. in this sector, the only concern of the government, to vary, is that of privatization. There is, therefore, no reason for the Greens, with a sense of responsibility, to reject this Government Programme. To this end, the Greens presented today a motion of rejection of the PSD/CDS Government Programme as a way to break this cycle of policies that have so long been inferring the lives of Portuguese people. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u181	To make an intervention in this closing period on behalf of the CFP, Mr Jerónimo Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u182	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: An important step is now being taken. Millions of Portuguese will breathe relief at the end of a government that, over four years, with the greatest arrogance and coldness, has incarnated their lives and aimed to continue their destructive work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u184	The defeat of the PSD/CDS coalition is inseparable from the struggle that workers and the people have fought against the policy of social backwardness and economic decline. The results of the last 4 October legislative elections, in which the PSD/CDS coalition lost more than 700 000 votes, saw its vote reduced by 12 percentage points, lost 25 Members and lost the absolute majority, expressed a clear condemnation of the policy pursued in the last four years by the PSD/CDS government. We must not fail to point out the significance and dimension of this condemnation in a framework in which the Government and the parties that supported it blackmailed the Portuguese people with fear, triggered an operation of instrumentalization of the State apparatus in the service of their electoral interests and kept their true agenda and political programme hidden. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] The PSD and CDS don't want to be told the truth and talk about reality. The PSD/CDS government leaves a huge trail of destruction: real unemployment reaching more than 1, 1 million Portuguese; widespread precariousness; the harsh reality of low wages for workers on behalf of others and, in particular, those who take up the national minimum wage or even lower value; the overwhelming majority of reforms below the poverty threshold; brutal underfunding of health and education, denying their right to full access to millions of Portuguese; successive cuts in social benefits, as was seen this year, with more than 520 million euros eliminated; the 2, 8 million Portuguese at risk of poverty. This is a situation marked by dramatic levels of unemployment, poverty and growing social inequalities. This is a country with arms with a demographic crisis, bleeding into life by the emigration of hundreds of thousands of young people, in part significant, highly qualified. This is a country with a high degree of weakening of the productive apparatus, with increasing domination of strategic decision-making centres abroad, with the weakening of an already weak economic fabric, with a record closure of companies and with a situation of brutal indebtedness of those who remain. It is a broken state in many of its centres of competence and know, impoverished of human resources, destructed and discouraged. This is a country that has seen its economy shrink for the past four years, with production falling to EUR 10 billion, global and public investment dramatically shrinking with heavy and serious future consequences and public debt rising to EUR 50 billion. No, Mr. Prime Minister, do not say any more that the Portuguese were comprehensive to the sacrifices that you have imposed on them. The worker, with his salary, income and his/her rights cut off, the pensioner or the pensioner, with the reform or pension cut or frozen, the family confiscated or lost his/her home, the unemployed without employment and allowance, the small ruined entrepreneur, the small farmer and the fisherman prevented from cultivating or fishing, the men and women of culture and of devalued science, all of them felt not understanding but indignation in front of so much trouble, confiscation and sacrifice, knowing, above all, that the result would be to cover the bank's evictions, to the large economic groups and not to rescue the country. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] This is a social and economic reality that was the will of the PSD and the CDS-PP to maintain and worsen, as it became clear by the content of the Government Programme, here so badly and so little defended by its authors. The Government here has been ignoring the serious structural problems of the persistent country, insisting on the false idea that its policy has led to an economic recovery, repeating empty proclamations regarding the resolution of social problems such as unemployment and poverty and trying to circumvent the reality of the growing difficulties that affect workers and the people. What the PSD/CDS-PP Government has made clear was the prospect of continuity and intensification of the policy of aggravating exploitation, impoverishment, assault on workers' and the people's incomes, tax injustice, destruction of the social functions of the State and public services, confrontation with sovereignty and the degradation of the democratic regime. The PSD and CDS-PP have led our country to a situation of economic and social backwardness never experienced after 25 April. They are now trying to rescue themselves from the electoral defeat that they have suffered by integrating measures and promises into the Government Programme aimed at creating the illusion that they would be able and willing to reverse the course of their policy, reverting some of the decisions that have affected the workers and the people over the past four years. The Government Programme shows the clear objective of ensuring the essential axes of the national disaster policy followed in recent years and further places the need to put an end to the new / old PSD/CDS government for the damage it has caused and for those who wanted to continue to cause the workers, the people and the country. It is in this context that the Government of the PSD/CDS coalition programme only serves to confirm what we have always told the Portuguese: with the PSD and the CDS-PP in power, the exploitation and impoverishment policy for workers and the people would continue, because the PSD and the CDS-PP have no other way of governing that does not go through the destruction of economic, social and labor rights of working classes. If much has already been destroyed, more still they wanted to destroy in the labour field and in the areas of education, health and social security. Thus the PSD and the CDS-PP had the opportunity to continue their policies in power, as they would wish all those who, undamaged at the height of their privileges, have benefited from the options taken in these years, those who, in the imminent defeat of this government and before the real possibility of the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, rather than return the theft of rights and incomes of our people, are not only launched in an odious campaign of fear and blackmail as they now seek to protect their petty interests, as revealed by the early distribution of dividends that some economic groups are in progress, in order to avoid the fair tax taxation to which they should be subject To this exercise of class cynicism, in which we speak on behalf of the country to protect the interests of a small minority, we want to say enough! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] The Portuguese people's choice expressed in the outcome of the last legislative elections makes it possible to prevent this coalition from prolonging, once again, its policy of lies and to stop this path of continuous degradation of the conditions of life of the Portuguese people. For all this, the CFP rejects the PSD/CDS-PP Government Programme and, together with other parties, created the conditions for it to be rejected, putting an end to its nefarious action. The joint position of the PS and the CFP on the political solution expresses the terms of this option. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] Institutional and political conditions are created for another government solution. There is an institutional basis in the Assembly of the Republic that will allow to go as far as the provision of each political force that makes it up to the path of the replacement of wages and incomes, the return of rights, the strengthening of access to health, education and social security, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support for reformers and young people, and which can enable the implementation of a set of measures and solutions that respond to the immediate interests of workers and the people. This is our commitment, indissociable from the indispensable patriotic and left-wing policy, from our deep aspiration for a policy based on the values of April, by a Portugal with a future. Time, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither expectative nor attentive. It is time for participation, action and construction of a better future! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] [[At the moment, PSD Member António Costa Silva displayed a poster with the message 'not to the motion of rejection'.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u185	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u186	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-First Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate there are obvious conclusions to be drawn and the first conclusion is that the Portugal Front coalition, which had already won the election campaign and which won the elections on 4 October, won again today and yesterday this debate of the Government Programme. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It's clear, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a majority and a government that is heading for Portugal, as it was also very clear that in Portugal there is only one politician prepared to lead that government, and this politician is the Prime Minister, called Pedro Passos Coelho. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It's exactly the one the Portuguese chose. They chose well and they didn't cheat. The Government is leading Portugal on the path of economic recovery, recovery that feels and is real. That is why this debate has shown, once again, that the Portuguese, when they chose this government and these leaders, Pedro Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, did not cheat. On the other hand, we do not ignore that from the very first moment, since the beginning of this debate, it has always appeared, as a gigantic red elephant sitting in the middle of the Chamber, the spectrum of the motions of rejection previously announced. We don't ignore him! He has always been in the middle of the Chamber, even though the principal in charge of this fact, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party has only commented on it in the corridors, having not so far come to this rostrum to assume its responsibilities, as was its obligation, before the House and before democracy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] To say that this debate is a waste of time, as Dr. António Costa said yesterday, it is a disrespect for this House, but above all it is a disrespect for the vote of the Portuguese. Nor can I fail to record the enormous exercise of hypocrisy of those who, having announced even before this debate the rejection of the Government Programme, have come here to criticize the interventions we have made on this fact, accusing us of not wanting to discuss, hide or even be ashamed of the Programme that we have presented, as you did yesterday, in response to a question addressed to you, the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, Carlos César. Let it be very clear: not only are we not ashamed as we all are very proud of the work we have done and of the Government programme that we have presented. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We are all very proud, but in particular, those who have been here for the past four years are very proud to have begun a legislation with the country in pre-banking state, because of the governance of the Socialist Party, and we have managed, at the end of four years, to regain the credibility of Portugal, control the deficit, make the economy grow and put unemployment down. We're very proud of that! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] We know that we have not been able to avoid many sacrifices that it was necessary to ask the Portuguese people, but we have managed to avoid ruptures, we have managed to make our greatest obligation above all: to protect Portuguese incomes, to avoid social breakdowns, to respond to the social emergency. We are very proud of that, and that is why we are also proud of the programme we are now presenting. The program we present is the logical consequence of the work and what we have done as a people and as a nation. It is, as we said in the election campaign, a programme that demonstrates that we can now do more, a programme that, by maintaining the consolidation of public accounts, maintaining rigour and stability, wants to go further, and we are no longer speaking in exceptional terms. We want to eliminate exceptionality. This is a programme that consolidates economic growth and investment, lowering taxes, and which at the same time does not speak in social emergencies anymore, but in social development, because now Portugal can more, as we said in the election campaign. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We are very proud in this Programme and in this Government, as we are sure that only by pursuing this route Portugal will not run unnecessary risks and will continue to protect the results we have achieved, not going back. If anyone's here, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I could be ashamed of being the one who left the country in bankruptcy, who has not helped at all solve the problem that it created, and now wants to reach power at any cost, using any manoeuvring, putting at risk all that we have achieved so far. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is not the interests of the country that can be subordinated to the interest of a conjuncural majority, to the party interests, or even to the political survival of a secretary-general. On the contrary, it is Parliament that must respond to the needs of the country and the needs of the country that required us to be a solid majority to continue the path we are taking. The Socialist Party has missed that call. The Socialist Party failed because it did not have the democratic humility to read the Portuguese will, to remember what happened in 2011 and to realize that we should not repeat the mistakes that led us to this dramatic situation. The Socialist Party preferred to choose an unprecedented path in our democracy, preventing those who won the elections from ruling. in doing so, he chose the path of radicalism and adventurism, launching the country's governance in a solution that not only is not legitimate as does not guarantee stability. It's too little, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, having heard these two days in expressions such as 'the despair of the right', make it clear to you that we, in the center-right, are tolerant people. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u187	We have known for many years that the people are serene, I repeat, we have known for many years that the people are serene. Desperation is not part of our culture nor is it part of our ethics. We, like the 2 086 165 Portuguese who voted in the coalition, are not desperate but are outraged. Indignant because what this new troika on the left is doing, preventing the legitimate government from ruling, is unworthy and that is why we are outraged. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Replacing a legitimate government may even be formally possible and formally constitutionally, but it is not acceptable. Always, in Portuguese democracy, who won the elections can rule: so it was with Mário Soares ; so it was with Cavaco Silva ; so it was with António Guterres ; so it was with José Socrates. Anyone who has won can rule. Mário Soares, moreover, referring back to a hypothetical government formed at the time by a sum of parties that had not won the elections — and at the time we were talking about the PS, the PRD and the PCP -, was very clear and said, and I quote: «some guys who wanted to go all the way to the government ». at the time, he was referring to these parties. But what a beautiful portrait for VV. Ex., Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! What a beautiful portrait for VV. Ex! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It's too little! I could also remember here Jorge Sampaio, by the way in the elections in the Azores, when he said: «It is unacceptable, it is unthinkable that those who did not win want to rule! » Isn't that right, Dr. Carlos César? Do you remember that? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u188	That's not true! It wasn't like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u189	But there is also a question of stability. Stability results from the fact that this sum of the negative that he now wants to rule has not gone to vote with that programme. That is to say, from what we understand, they have not even changed their opinion: the Left Block continues to defend the end of the Budget Treaty and the renegotiation of debt, and apparently the PS does not; the CFP continues to defend the exit of the euro and nationalisations, as shown in the motion it presented — in fact, for the first time, they do not speak in the pact of aggression, which is no longer bad, it is already progress —... [[CDS and PSD laughter.]] ... but the PS doesn't defend it either; PCP and Block defend the NATO exit, and we hope the PS doesn't defend it either. That is, on the limit, they remain different and what we could even accuse the PCP and BE is that they are taking advantage of the state of need of a Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. It may be legal, but it's not beautiful! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I've come to say that they've changed in 24 hours, but I'll do the justice to tell you that they haven't changed. Now, the risk we have with this troika of the left is the return to spending and the return of the other troika. This is the serious risk, and that is the risk we face. Legitimity, when you did not vote with a joint programme, has this problem. Wait for you, Mr. João Oliveira, a shock to reality. Let's see how they get out of this shock with reality. It is also symbolic that during this month's meetings of technical teams, meetings to the closed door, secret meetings, as we know, the three never sat at the same table at the same time...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u190	They don't even know each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u191	Today, as far as we know, the signature of the agreements was made at once and at the closed door, they would not be at risk of appearing together in the photograph! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. They wouldn't be at risk of all showing up together in the photograph... that says a lot about stability. From here on, the question is clear and obvious, and the Central Committee knows it well. It is the famous question of Vladimir Ilyich Ulyyanov : what to do? From here, what to do? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We answer clearly: we do not give up because we know well what it took to get the country out of bankruptcy and protect the Portuguese. We do not give up because what is at stake is the future of Portugal and its new generations. We do not give up because we have been evaluated by the Portuguese, we have won the elections and we have popular, electoral and democratic legitimacy. And not only do we not give up how we gain, with this reality, an additional supplement of soul, which results from one of the strongest feelings we can have in politics: that of injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u193	The decision they will make is illegitimate and unfair, but it only gives us more strength to continue on behalf of our values and on behalf of Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] They may even knock us down, but one thing is very clear: we fell, but we fell on our feet and those who fell on our feet don't die! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] What counts is not the place where we will sit, what counts is not even the size of an arithmetic and artificial majority, what counts really is the size of our reason and it is with it that we will continue to fight. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u194	For the closing intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the debate these two days, it has been repeated to exhaustion and in various formats that never happened what is happening. I couldn't agree anymore. We're doing what's never been done. Good! It was more than time! [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] To do as they command the conventions would be the worst of all, because it would lack the answer to people's lives, as it has always been lacking, and because it would lack the truth of the election results. It is not in Parliament that is happening what has never happened before, it was in the country. And we, elected and elected with the same legitimacy, represent this change. It is legitimate to let the Government remain on the right that the majority of the people rejected. We are therefore going to the election results, which apparently have difficulty in understanding the right. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In 2011 the PSD, alone, elected 108 Members and Members. He did not arrive to form a government with majority support in Parliament, but he associated himself with the CDS, which he had elected 24 Members, and they achieved a majority of 132 Members and Members. Today, PSD and CDS together have only 107 Members, less than they had PSD alone in 2011, i.e., they lost 700,000 votes and 25 Members. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] To be a government they need another political force to support them in Parliament. And, as you see, you have no such support and that is why your Government is rejected because you do not have enough votes in the country and in the Assembly of the Republic. They didn't have them on October 4th! They have not elected enough Members and Members. [[P.P.P.P.E., P.P.C. Applause.]] PSD and CDS are in shock and seem to think that the obligation of other political forces is to support them, against the electoral commitment that elected them, against everything we said in the campaign and these four years of opposition. PSD and CDS want those who have competed against their government now to support their government, because yes, because they have been convinced that government solutions can only be the same as ever and that no election results can truly change anything. One never saw a Paulo Portas as cavaquist as the day he lost power. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today marks a political change in our country which is not small, which is not the result of mere topical arithmetic games or of the volunteerism of parliamentary benches. Understanding the moment we live requires understanding how the conditions for this change have grown, who were its workers and in which it translates into the future. over the last four years there has been a reconfiguration of the country that was not small. The succession of unconstitutional budgets was only the tip of the iceberg of the amendments imposed on the right against the pillars of democracy in Portugal. There is no democracy without conditions of equality and freedom. This is why access to education, such as health, and, of course, labour rights are pillars of democracy. A public school and a National Health Service fragile and disarticulated are conditions of inequality. The attack on collective bargaining, precariousness and massive unemployment are conditions of fear of almost all, in the name of the prepotency of a few. If today the right is isolated in Parliament, it has been isolated in recent years to attack the country, to break the social contract on which democracy is founded. Who put generation against generation, workers against workers, poor against the poor, so that resentment would open up space to the breach of the social contract on which democracy is founded, ended up isolated, and still well. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] What the right reads today as an attack on democracy is, in fact, the rescue of democracy. The huge social crisis imposed on the country by the right ended up creating new concrete political conditions. The relationship of forces we have today in the Assembly of the Republic corresponds to the desire for change and to hope in the country and democracy. If the one who ruled so far had no majority, it is no less true that the alternance of the custom is no longer an option. The election results require much more than all of us. The million people who spoke to the left of the centre represent the priority of response to the social emergency. That million is the force that changed everything. And what does this change mean? Of course, the refusal of the lie and of the permanent game of shadows. They look at the gigantic right-wing campaign that everything was better: from the pancakes on the back of the markets and from Berlin, to the supertax that was to be returned, the right had all the noble hours, all the media, to talk about their success and their promises while hiding what he did and what he had in the Program. And yet he lost, lost 700 000 votes and lost the majority because he lied and no longer knows how to do more than to lie. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: "Don't forget me. Don't forget us. Don't forget. These were the phrases I heard most about this election campaign. There's a whole country that feels forgotten. The country of broken pensions, the wages of misery, unemployment and internship, the rest of the old to work and new for reform, the whole life on the front that exists only if it is out there, abroad. A whole people hear about international commitments, market instability, the danger of capital flight, and ask themselves: when will my life have a second that it is the attention of who decides our lives? Will there be a time to consider the state's commitment to which you have contributed all your life and today you don't even have any money for drugs? Who works more and more hours and only sees the salary shrink? When policy comes the tremendous concern about the instability of those who have lost their jobs, who have lost their homes, who can't even buy yogurt for the kids? Will there be a time to start worrying seriously about the flight of people from our country? With the escape of 110 000 at an active age per year, why didn't you find a decent job here? I know! Here, in this plenary, to the right, talking about markets is the concern of serious people; talking about hunger and despair, it is unbearable demagogy. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Moreover, he repeated the right throughout the debate as in recent years: if markets are not happy and well fed, no one in the country will have to eat. And as they zealously look after the always insatiable and irritable markets, they don't even realize that the country is fading out of people and evading itself in the future. I don't forget! We don't forget! [[PSD protests.]] The Left Block does not forget and that is why we reject this government, that is why we build the alternative, a commitment on behalf of people, a commitment of those who do not hesitate to respond to the emergency, of those who do not forget. In the pre-election campaign, the Left Block made this commitment to availability for a majority who responded to the emergency. We have announced it publicly: here we would be discussing a solution for the country with a Socialist Party that would compromise itself with essential measures for employment, wages and pensions. And we have fulfilled our commitment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u196	The recovery of income provided for in the agreement is shy in the face of all that has been lost in these years; social protection is less than the emergency created by the destruction of the right; investment capacity is short in the face of the absolute need for reconstruction of productive capacity and employment, but are the possible steps... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u197	...in the constraints that the Socialist Party does not abdicate. We do not agree, but we know that the steps we have been able to take together are the difference between continuing to impoverish or respond to people's lives, and we do not lack responsibility. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] The clarity of those who have always said what comes and never lowers their arms is the greatest guarantee of stability for those who do not fail the compromise they make. Those who have transformed red lines into orange lines to be vice-primary-minister may not understand that stability lies, first and foremost, in a clear political commitment to the country. That too is a change that we make today and that we are proud of. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these elections we have worked towards as broad a convergence as possible, ensuring stability for people's lives and thus allowing a government solution for the legislature. And it was possible. There are commitments on the recovery of public service income, minimum wage, pension replacement, tax relief from those who live in their work, housing protection and tax collection to those who have never paid and have always earned in these years. Commitments to collective hiring and protection against abuse and precariousness; commitments to holidays and working hours; commitments to privatizations, because a country does not sell, commitments to school and the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u199	I conclude, Mr. President. Commitments to culture and science, because without them there is no future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will soon reject the impoverishment government. When we do that vote, we will not only be rid of the country of a government which has been refused by the majority in the polls, but above all, we will also be implementing the hope of that same majority in a change that responds to people's specific lives. In the last days, throughout the country, everyone is discussing politics — what it is, what it will be. Good! Voting is no longer a ritual with a pre-defined result.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u200	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u201	I conclude now, Mr President. Politics — that is, the country, the choices about the life of this community that is ours — is now everyone's business and summons each and every one of us. Democracy is every day and it is now. [[Congratulations from BE, standing up, the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u202	To close the debate on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr António Costa has the floor. [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] [[Get up! Stand up!]] [[Get up! Stand up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u203	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-First Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS coalition has lost the majority and is now in minority in this Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]] This is the arithmetic and political expression of the desire for change that citizens have expressed in the polls and that it is up to us to respect and enforce. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The Government's programme that has been presented to us does not translate this desire for change, on the contrary, is an evolving continuity programme. A programme that pursues austerity beyond the troika, which defends a model of development based on the impoverishment and destruction of rights, which places on the weakening of the social state and the privatization of public services, which conforms to a submissive stance in the European Union, without beating itself, in the defence of national interests, by strengthening cohesion and a new impetus to convergence. In short, this is a government programme that does not respond to the desire to change Portuguese. We said and repeated that no one counted on PS to support the continuation of PSD/CDS coalition policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The word given must be an honest word... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u204	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, I ask you to have the same behaviour during the intervention of the PS Secretary-General during the speeches of the Prime Minister and your representatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u205	Don't be partial!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u206	I'll repeat. We said and repeated that no one counted on PS to support the continuation of PSD/CDS coalition policies. The word given must be an honest word and this is the first reason. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The PSD/CDS coalition has fewer Members than the rest of the board because it had fewer votes than the other parties represented here. The majority in the minority were the free and sovereign votes of the electorate citizens who elected the 230 deputies that make up the Assembly of the Republic. This is a new political framework. The old majority has ceased to be a majority and cannot pretend to continue to be what has ceased to be. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Now, it is no longer enough for itself to form government, or to have the legislation of its own initiative passed, or so little for here to prevent the adoption of legislation which runs counter to its programme. in this new parliamentary framework, the PSD / CDS coalition, to have a majority, always lacks the support or tolerant abstention of at least one, of two or even of the other three benches. The burden of creating stable conditions of cabia governance, first of all, to the political force with greater parliamentary representation, in the case of the PSD, which has more than three Members than the PS. The PSD has achieved no more than renewing the coalition with the CDS. I know it's exactly the same as four years ago, but with a fundamental difference: it's that four years ago PSD and CDS formed a majority of themselves and now PSD and CDS are minority. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The PSD was therefore unable to form a Government with majority parliamentary support. What he presents to us here is a minority executive, who did not create stable and lasting conditions of governance. Portugal needs stability and PSD/CDS coalition does not guarantee it. Therefore, this government does not serve the needs of the country, Portugal needs another government. Our Constitution has not yet enshrined, because the PSD has never allowed it, the figure of the motion of constructive censorship. We are not, as the PSD/CDS coalition has already shown to be, unable to build a majority solution, but we are not even an opposition like the PSD and the CDS have already announced to be, excited by revenge and focused on obstruction. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u207	You're him today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they were so eager to listen to me now, listen to me! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Therefore, the PS announced, responsibly, on the very night of the elections, that it would not impede the formation of this PSD/CDS government if there were no conditions to form a government that was a real and credible alternative. This new political framework is also particularly demanding and responsible for PS and all other political forces, which, in opposition to the PSD/CDS coalition, have to assume the burden that PSD has shown itself unable to satisfy. in these circumstances, the Portuguese question the whole of the banks that oppose the PSD/CDS coalition : are they in a position to enable the formation of another government in the current parliamentary framework? Can this Government have the consistency that only a coherent government programme ensures? Can this Government benefit from conditions of governance against motions of rejection or censorship? Can this government have prospects for stability throughout the legislature, because the majority that makes it possible is also able to jointly appreciate the fundamental instruments of government action, such as the State budgets in each year?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u209	With this deal, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u210	Today, we know the answers to these questions. The parliamentary benches of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party guarantee the majority parliamentary support that allows the formation of a PS Government, in the coherence of its government programme, with conditions of stable governance on the horizon of the legislature. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] by the PS, we know that we did not win the elections,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u211	... but we also know that we do not have the right to steal from Portugal the responsibility to seek to ensure what Portugal needs or to betray the will of change of those who voted in us. The approval of the motion of rejection is not the expression of a mere negative majority against the PSD/CDS government,... [[No, no, no, ……]] [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u212	... nor leads the country to impasse or ingovernability. on the contrary, it is the constructive response that enables another government, with a coherent, credible and consistent programme, with stable conditions of implementation throughout the legislature. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] We did not anticipate nor hinder what the PSD was up to; we succeeded in fulfilling what the PSD was not able to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is an alternative with majority support for this minority government, there is an alternative to the precariousness of a government without the ability to implement its Programme, there is an alternative to the instability of a government in contradiction with the majority that opposes it, in short, an alternative serving Portugal. It is true that it would not be the first time that Portugal would have a minority government, but it would be the first time that a minority government would be formed against the majority will of a parliamentary majority to enable an alternative government to be viable. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] in the past, minority governments only formed because the oppositions as a whole failed to form an alternative government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u213	They were always PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u214	... and, in the past, minority governments have only persisted until these oppositions have added their vote to make their governance impossible. And this is also not the first time that different political forces agree between themselves post-election solutions that enable the formation of a government. In order not to go further, this is how PSD and CDS formed their previous government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But it had already been with two of the governments of Mário Soares, with the governments of Durão Barroso and Pedro Santana Lopes. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The main novelty is that, this time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u215	You've lost!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u216	...and for the first time, neither PSD nor CDS compete for the majority that enables the government to form. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] But it is also time to realize, once and for all, that they do not enjoy the natural right to govern and that all political forces represented in this House enjoy equal legitimacy in supporting and participating in government solutions. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] That for the first time there may be a government resulting from parliamentary agreements between the PS, the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens is indeed a novelty. A novelty that enhances parliamentary pluralism, strengthens democracy and enriches government alternatives. And here I would like to welcome the sense of patriotic responsibility that allowed it, while at the same time guaranteeing Portugal the governmental stability that the country lacks and ensures to the Portuguese the change that they most said they wanted in the last elections. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The policy is made of choices and the choice we make gives the country a governmental solution and shows that, in democracy, there are always alternatives, our duty to build them. What is new is that this time the oppositions were able to ensure a majority alternative in the formation of the government. A taboo was finished, a wall was broken down, another prejudice was overcome. Here, in this Assembly of the Republic, we are all different in our ideas, but we are all equal in our legitimacy. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] No one knows the plural identity of this parliamentary base. None of these benches are able to abdicate or disguise the doctrinal and programmatic differences that distinguish them. The left is and wants to continue to be plural and different and, in order to build together, none of us have to revoke what is irrevocable. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u217	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u218	What enables this solution is the capacity that each individual has had, respecting the identity differences, to share a set of priorities for the horizon of the legislature, not on the basis of an agreement for photography, but based on a commitment to do what is necessary. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I will finish, Mr. President. Yes, it is possible to alleviate the fiscal asphyxiation of the middle class, although we differ on the nationalization of the energy sector! Yes, it is possible to improve the income of families without having to share the opinion on NATO! Yes, it is possible to defend the social state, despite having different views on our participation in the euro! Yes, it is possible to combat unemployment and precarious work, even though we think differently about the European Union! Yes, it is possible to say that the time has come to break with ideological radicalism, arrogance and self-sufficiency that encouraged the governance of the PSD / CDS coalition. This is the time to put an end to the governance of the coalition, to open a new government cycle. Only in this way can we turn the page, giving the Portuguese a time of hope and Portugal a future of confidence. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u219	For the closing of the debate on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u220	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, we heard Dr. António Costa. But I want to start by telling you that you have fled to the greatest nobility of the democratic debate: the contradiction, the welcome democratic confrontation of positions. And this was no debate at all! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u221	Dr. António Costa preferred the secret meetings with his new comrades, preferred cooking on the people's backs and taking care of the Portuguese will a new government hypothesis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u222	An adrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u223	The election results, the plural and contradictory debate, that is, little. This arrogant behavior, this democratic prepotency, this sovereign defined it, in times past, Antonio José Seguro. And I quote: « Costa is a disappointment to those who found it a D. Sebastião ». But Dr. António Costa showed up there and is here today. It says the people « better late than ever». He spoke to explain the inexplicable, spoke to defend the indefensible, spoke to assume a minimum agreement and also the maximum irresponsibility. But in politics, one cannot escape the scrutiny of authenticity, democracy, the support of choices and coherence. Dr. António Costa lost the elections, but he wants to be Prime Minister. Will it be consistent? The Portuguese ask themselves: will this will be consistent by Dr. António Costa? Let us forget, for a moment, the traditions and conventions of our democracy. Let us see the political, the aspiring Prime Minister himself. On May 26, 2014, he said : « in the legislatures, the PS cannot have a victory that knows little. To win elections in terms of governance, PS does not just win by one vote. The PS has to grow a lot. » — I quoted Antonio Costa. Now, a year and a half later, the PS did not have a victory that knew little; it lost! You did not win by one vote, you lost by more than 340 000 votes! It didn't grow much; it grew by 1 % in this period, when, in the same period, the PSD / CDS-PP coalition grew by 11 %, 5 %. Where is Dr. António Costa's consistency? « The word given is an honest word! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Rice and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] On 9 September 2014 he said: « I do not want to be unpleasant, but there is a misunderstanding in reading that you make of the result of Europeans. Everyone realized that PS would hardly win the legislation. If the PS had had the result I wanted, I would not take this step», said Antonio Costa to Antonio José Seguro. O Dr. António Costa, I don't want to be unpleasant either, but see the ridicule of your mistake now! We didn't realize the PS would hardly win. Everyone noticed, the people voted, and the PS really lost! What step does Dr. António Costa take now? Oh, my God! Open... But, let's take another jump, let's go until March 29, 2015 at the Teatro Rivoli, in Porto. António Costa said: « When the PS appeals to a majority « does not do so for the petty desire to have more deputies than the others; it does so because it wants the government to be formed by decision of the Portuguese and not by political games in the Assembly of the Republic ». [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u224	«The word given, the word honored»! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What a pearl of political incoherence! It was Dr. António Costa who said so and it is Dr. António Costa who is doing the opposite! Is this your credibility? Oh, my God! By the way, we are also going on April 9, 2015, when he said: « We cannot leave either party games or the President of the Republic's will to choose the new government. in the country of April, those who vote and those who choose governments are the people and will be the people to choose the next government. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let me say, sympathetically: Elementary, my dear Costa, is the people who choose the government. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] It is, in fact, Republican ethics—that so many times they invoke here! Or it isn't, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party? « The word given is an honest word! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And, on the new "traveling comrades", we are going closer, only two months ago, on the 4th of September. António Costa said: « Anyone who hears the PCP and the Left Block realizes that both parties have only one goal — to fight the Socialist Party. They're just protest breakers. They want to be in the demonstrations, but not in the government, to solve people's problems'. It is more or less what is happening in these days, in such a word as it is the honest word. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And he also said: « There is a radical difference between the PS and the dual PCP / Left Block, which has to do with Europe : for us Europe and the euro are non-negotiable ». So someone capitulated, in this domain, someone lost sight of his convictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u226	To conclude these quotations, let us say that the most "cost" of the words is in a last quote: the word "little". We are, even closer to today, in Odivelas, on September 19, 2015 : « For there to be stability, it is necessary not to win for a little bit, because, as I said once, whoever wins for a little bit can only do little. We need a clear victory that is unequivocal, that gives us a majority». It is António Costa that says it: « Whoever earns for a little bit can only make a little bit». And the country asks: then, if so, who misses much what he can do? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Do you have a map? Is that what you can do? [[A blow!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u227	Staying hostage to spending programs, ideologically fanatic? Is that what you can do? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS will overthrow the government that has won because it wants to be the government that has lost. What more bota-bassist opposition can there be greater than this, Dr. António Costa? Were you just trying to anticipate what might be hypothetically the opposition of the PSD and CDS? But have you seen your opposition? Not a day of implementation of the Government's programme and is it already putting the government down? And did you come here to invoke the examples of 2002 and 2011 as if they were similar? Oh, my God! Yesterday I had the opportunity to tell you — you did not want to participate in the debate and, therefore, we could not cross positions — which is indeed confusing the unmistakable. There is something else that the honourable Member has not said, i.e. that all minority governments, so far, have not been overthrown with the approval of motions of rejection, and no Government of the Socialist Party has had the PSD to do what Mr. António Costa and the Socialist Party are doing today to this government, legitimized in the polls. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Never happened, never happened! Ask Mário Soares! Ask Antonio Guterres! And ask José Socrates! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The essence of this debate, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore simple or relatively simple: there was a leader who was to win elections for a long time, « very little», because the previous one won for « little bit». Then he lost, he lost for a lot. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] And, as a political shipwreck, he was going to the bottom, drowning himself in the sea and the journey he himself chose. This is except when you saw two floats. The distance to the floats was enormous, programmatically it was even almost irrecoverable. And so what we have here today is not a tripartite agreement, it is not a three-party government with members of the government of all parties. In fact, it is not an agreement, it seems to be a common political position, which is now a new concept. But there is one thing that is unequivocal: this solution is weak, it is incoherent, it is loaded with inaccuracies, incompatibilities and uncertainties. Even because there was another problem: salvation was not possible only with a schooner. A boat wasn't enough. They needed both. And, therefore, the Portuguese, if constitutionally admitted to the solution, could still think: good, but if they join the three, if they have a single programme, if they are the three for the government, they may give guarantees for the implementation of their programme. But, no, that's not what happened! Until the motions of rejection had to be submitted, each had to submit his or her own. And so this 'political drowning' had to hold on to the two leaves, with a small question: it will be forced to follow the path that these floats indicate to you, because on the day when you do not have the support of one of the floats, you will not have salvation in the majority of parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Of course this is a choice, it's a firm choice, and the gentlemen. Deputies of the PCP and the Left Block, which rescue ships, are here to ensure that the fly will not leak. We'll see and wait. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of this debate, I would also like to say, in a very clear and frontal manner, that today, in this House of the Republic, we will be witnessing the adulteration of the popular will expressed in the last legislative elections. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u228	The PSD and the CDS ruled for four years, and, with the Portuguese, we resumed growth and job creation, we took account, went to vote and we clearly won the elections. We brought here a program, yes, of continuity, and, yes, to continue to transform Portugal, not in an emergency context, but in a context of growth that is the current one.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u229	It's growth down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u230	Our economy is growing, our public accounts are balanced, unemployment is decreasing,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... with no demagogy, with realism! This is a programme that ensures the financial health of the State, that combats social inequalities, that wants to modernize the Public Administration, that wants to fulfil our main international and European obligations. A program that wants to preserve the social state and wants to give more and more an opportunity to all Portuguese to avenge their personal and professional life project. The Portuguese know that the way of the last few years has been of great effort, and I am convinced that they do not want to waste it in any way! The Portuguese know that if we reverse this path today the responsibility is for those who will approve the motions of rejection, but it is in particular the greatest party to the opposition. I would like, on behalf of the PSD, to state here once again that we will not leave Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u231	We did not divide the Portuguese between « us» and « them». We did not, I repeat, divide the Portuguese between « us» and « them»! We have great respect for the effort and sacrifice of the people! We respect those who don't have a job yet! We also respect those who, in society, in companies, in public services, in institutions of social solidarity, build the strength of a just, supportive and ambitious country! A future government led by the PS, if any, is not actually the result of popular will.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u232	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u233	But the Portuguese know who has prevented this legitimate government from ruling, and, of course, at the very moment, they will not give up that responsibility. Today, the people's government is being destroyed. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] There may have been a government of some Members, but today the government that the people have chosen is being destroyed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u234	Your Members have been chosen by the people. What about ours?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u235	I want to end by saying that none, but none of Parliament's play will overthrow our convictions and responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u236	On behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u237	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: when the Government closes this debate of the Government's programme, I would like to begin by stressing that the government has presented itself to this House with a coherent programme. There were those who had called him continuity. in fact, the government has not changed its attitude or position. What changed was the country's problems and situation. And they changed well, because they changed because of the action we did for four years. I said this at the opening of this discussion yesterday and it was really with anxiety and anxiety that we started our mandate in 2011. The country was on the verge of bankruptcy, had doubled its external debt for almost 10 years and the State had the uncontrolled accounts, unable to have access to finance and, therefore, failed to provide what was essential to fulfil its external and internal obligations. Therefore, we began our mandate to execute a Memorandum of Understanding that was not negotiated by us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u238	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u239	...but that was done for us. Today, this coherence programme with which we are presenting ourselves to Parliament shows the recovery of public finances and the recovery of the economy, shows the external balance that has persisted for three years and shows the progressive indebtedness of both the State and the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u240	How can you say something like that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u241	Today we have a lower unemployment rate than we know when we started jobs in 2011. As a result, we created conditions to defend and even strengthen the social state. And here he said: the social state which is not financed by a failed state threatens all Portuguese. The Portuguese, today, know that they can rely on their social state because they have put a lot of effort and sacrificed a lot for that social state to be defended. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We also had the opportunity to defend the public service and take advantage of it to remember here that, even though at the end of all these years there are those who confuse public service with public property, in fact we never confuse them and always defend the public interest and public service, even when we privatize in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause]] The programme with which we have been presented is therefore a programme which can tackle serious problems that remain with another area of possibilities. When we put a new priority in the government's political action, we knew that it was not possible to carry out everything in four years and that there were even instruments that were not available when we started this path four years ago. We therefore do not have in Portugal in front of us in these four years the negative picture we left in 2011. Our Programme reflects the obedience to stability and responsibility for the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made, and that we ask them, and at the same time, we present it in an anti-demagogic way, in a non-electionalist way, finally in a certain and realistic way. The opposition, I must say, the opposition was defeated by these facts. I should not forget that during these four years the oppositions prophesied that we would not meet our goals, that we would not be able to avoid a second rescue, that we would not survive the financial and economic emergency and that we would collapse into a social emergency. And none of this has happened in Portugal these four years! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But the opposition was not just defeated by the facts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u242	Facts Mr. Prime Minister invents!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u243	...was also defeated in the elections. Anyone who considers that the opposition has won assumes that it has a unit that it does not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u244	Again this story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u245	And, in fact, there is no unity in the oppositions defeated in the elections. Just look at the program of each of the oppositions and see how incompatible this set of programs is. When it is now proposed to overthrow the government that has won the elections, as, moreover, it was quite clear during this debate, the oppositions expressed only one purpose, one purpose: to rewrite the election result and convert a sum of defeats to a negative majority to remove the government that has won the elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And so far, this negative majority has not yet passed away, i.e., by a negative majority. Of course, this circumstance is only possible because this is the will of the Socialist Party.This is unimaginable. In fact, it is not the will of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block that will determine the lead of this Program. These parties have not done anything else for the past four years but to request the resignation of an absolute majority government. Indeed, the democratic outcome has never prevented these parties from disrespecting the popular will, unless the popular will was their own. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u246	Seven hundred thousand popular wills!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u247	The PS therefore makes the difference here. The PS stated in advance that it would present a motion for rejection of the Government's Programme and that it would make this rejection feasible, after saying that it would only do so if it had an alternative majority, a stable majority, lasting and consistent, a majority that has not yet presented any political solution to ensure stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u248	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u249	And it was unfortunate to hear the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party explain to the country, at the end of so many weeks after the elections, that the platform available to overthrow this government does not even save or guarantee the Government that comes there from a majority that defeats it in this Parliament, because it has not even guaranteed an agreement that makes it impossible to reject its government in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Why is the Socialist Party doing this, then? I dare say, what we have heard in the debate, that the differences which have been noted in relation to the Government's programme and which would justify a lead from the government itself are, in many respects, artificially or purposely emboldened. It is true that there are also sensitive differences in some economic matters and these differences are healthy, but they do not justify for themselves the overthrow of a government that has left the elections. The Socialist Party came here to talk to us about austerity, justifying with the austerity policy the need to overthrow this government, but it seems to me that the issue of austerity policy is a false issue. In fact, it was a Government of the Socialist Party that began in Portugal to cut wages, freeze pensions, raise taxes, create extraordinary contributions, propose cuts in paid pensions equivalent to those applied in wages, end up with family allowance benefits, among many others. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This which the Socialist Party calls today « radicalism and the abandonment of the centre» was initiated by the Socialist Party still in 2010. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u250	So, should we give the Socialist Party a reason? Is this a policy of radicalism that keeps us away from the political center? I must say no. In fact, these measures and policies that the Socialist Party started were nothing more than the result of the government's irresponsibility which led for six years. The truth is that the Socialist Party had to take all these measures after having led national policy since 2005 first with an absolute majority and then with a parliamentary minority supported by the other parties in this Parliament. So, if so, why has the Socialist Party now chosen to bring the government down, making its Programme impossible? It seems clear to me that the Socialist Party has refused to associate itself with the greater majority of this House and the country, which is a majority of European matrix, and has preferred to join the minorities who have fought it ever since and who, who is known, do not link it with any important links either in matters of substance or in matters of sovereignty. Moreover, it should be remembered that what the most structurally democratic Portugal has done, whether at the level of constitutional revisions, whether at the level of accession to the European Union, against these minorities and with the Socialist Party, with the Social Democratic Party and with the CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And so, of course, because those who have always fought the Socialist Party have always put themselves out of this consensus in national matters. And unless the present Socialist Party has revealed to us about essential differences in its programmatic matrix, we cannot conclude anything other than, which is legitimately supposed, that what moves the leadership of the Socialist Party today is only the appetite for power. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What the PS offers us as an explanation is not convincing. As you are promised, if you come to overthrow today this government by the will of the Socialist Party, it is good not to forget that this will was formulated not because the Socialist Party had been ostracized, but because you made a radical choice. When I proposed to Dr. António Costa to associate with this larger majority, even integrating it, if any, into the government, I did it directly because I think it was important for the future of the country. by rejecting this proposal to tell Mr President of the Republic : « It is not a waste of time to appoint this government, which has no stability », he could have added : « It has no stability because I am not available to give it to him ». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, if this negative majority which today intends to overthrow the government does so, it has a moral obligation to become a positive majority. That is how it should be conducted, with a sense of responsibility before the President of the Republic. What we know today, of the political agreements that have been made, does not support this view of a positive majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] If it were, as the leader of the Socialist Party says, a touchstone to assess the stability of a government to put fundamental questions aside, put them in the drawer or suspended, so as not to prevent the overthrow of a government or the possession of the next, if for this it suffices a consultation process before motions of censure are presented or budgets are presented, why would the Socialist Party not be willing to offer this minimum of conditions to whom it has won the elections? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What will happen, then, in this Parliament, is not normal. It has never been normal in 40 years and cannot be understood as normal by anyone. The representatives of the people in Parliament do not have a strict mandate mission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u252	... can always interpret the vote of the people. I have always argued that the representative mandate is neither limited nor mandatory and sometimes it is even necessary to interpret our representation on the basis of what we believe to be the most appropriate. We therefore respond to those we represent in the elections, even when we can or should go against what seems to be the will of those who have chosen us, but we must agree in the audacity to make such a quick reinterpretation of the popular will, when the elections took place in the country a few weeks ago. Therefore, the reinterpretation that is being done means, contrary to what is normal and what was normal in 40 years, that the Socialist Party, according to its ambition of power, does not care to revoke the mandate given to this Government in the elections so that it itself can assume the functions of government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, then, there really is an imperative of clarification that we must respect. Let it be very clear: not only does this negative majority have to evolve further in order to be a true positive majority — what we have seen so far is not a positive majority — but it must also be sufficient. This majority that overthrows the Government today is indeed obliged to Parliamentary sufficiency, whether for the government's current action and activity, whether for major governance issues and which are indispensable to any government, namely State budgets, presentation of stability programmes, implementation of structural reforms, compliance with European rules and international treaties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u253	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u254	Those who vote today for the overthrow of the legitimate government have no legitimacy to come later to claim a sense of responsibility, patriotism or Europeanism to whom all these attributes have been denied today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] There's no here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what I have heard recently, no revenge,... [[PCP laughter.]] ...what is a matter of ethics, and republican ethics as well. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I hope that the circumstances that will follow this vote will not confirm what is being advanced in the news, that is, that a minority Government of the Socialist Party will emerge from it, supported by three radical parliamentary minorities who have always fought the Socialist Party. Because this would be confirmed, if it were to happen, that, in the view of the democracy of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, only socialist minority governments can be admitted within the House of Democracy. If they are not from the Socialist Party, they must be demanded by the absolute majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe in the cohesion of this new majority that is announced. I don't trust the country either. He lacks identity, he lacks cement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u255	You're done with Cimpor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u256	That is why what is announced is, indeed, a minority government which is constituted on top of a sum of minority wills and, as we know, the sum of the parties is always different from the whole. And the whole government that is pre-announced, in this case, does not go beyond the sum of the parties, remains below the sum of the parties. I also trust what is being promised and, above all, that the promised one is compatible with our European obligations and with the self-interest of removing the country from the pressure of debt and deficit, without which it is not possible to alleviate the pressure of taxes and attract investment that sustains growth and employment, as so far. I know, from my own experience, and not just from the books, that gaining financial and political autonomy is no doubt about the ability to comply. And, as in other words, what is promised today in terms of tax relief or income relief always has a price, because, if it did not, all of us today would be making the same promises, here we will be waiting for the corresponding invoice. It is clear that what we can now alleviate is due to the hard work we have done in these years. I hope that what they promise us now for the future will not have to be paid twice tomorrow. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u257	As the Governor of the Banco de Portugal said, the economic policy mistakes that are now made will be paid with more pain in the future. And it won't just be like that...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u258	You were ordered for your speech? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u259	I know that you always have great regard and respect for the figures of Portuguese democracy and the Governor of Banco de Portugal... I always respect them, regardless of my sympathy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, as the Governor of Banco de Portugal says, if the economic policy mistakes that are made today are paid with more pain in the future, the truth is that it has always been so in the past, it is not only in the future that it will be so, it has always been so in the past and, unfortunately, we preserve good memory of this past — or bad memory, for better reason. Moreover, such a government has not yet started its duties, and we already have the investors' mistrust to express themselves in the abnormal expansion of public debt spreads and in the default swaps credit, which accurately measures the risk of non-compliance with public debt. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, as far as we are concerned, we have not even been seized of power. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u260	We have power, a notion of service and therefore disappointment for the oppositions to be delighted with a false idea, which is that it will cost us a lot to get out of the government. It is not every day that he leaves the government with the vote of the electorate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Few politicians can take pride in that. We here will be fighting for Portugal, as, moreover, we are used to doing, in coherence and faithful to our principles. He always said he wouldn't leave my country, and I won't abandon him. If you don't let me fight for him in front of the government, as the voters wanted, I will fight in Parliament, because I am proud to have a lot of respect. [[On your feet, applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u261	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on motion of rejection No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — of the XX Constitutional Government Programme ( PS ). This is a vote by electronic vote and therefore for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are not familiar with the system, I shall quickly try to explain: the ladies and gentlemen. Members who want to vote against the motion for rejection stand up when I ask 'who votes against' and press the red key, which is the 'no' ; those who want to abstain, stand up when I ask 'who abstains' and press the white key, which is the 'abstention' ; and those who want to vote in favour of the motion of rejection arise when I ask 'who votes in favour' and press the green key, which is the 'yes'. But first, we will check the quorum, even though we know it exists. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have problems in registering in the electronic system that inform the Bureau of this fact, so that the services can correct some failure. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can move on to quorum checks using electronic means, because we can't wait any longer. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records the presence of 220 Members, 86 of whom are from the PSD, but I suppose they are more than 86 Members in the Chamber... Tell me that there are three Members. PSD Members who were unable to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u262	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u263	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u264	Mr President, as I think it is easy to count, 15 Members of the CFP are present and, as a result of the quorum check, only 13 appear and I believe that everyone has made the electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u265	Mr President, I would also like to address an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u266	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u267	Mr. President, it is notorious and easy to see that the 18 Members of the CDS-PP are present. Simply, the gentlemen. Deputies João Rebelo, Manuel Isaac and, I believe, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila could not register in the electronic system. So, either we repeat or, then, we count on their presence, which is public and notorious. That's how Mr. President understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can proceed to the vote — we have already seen that there is a quorum of votes — hoping that the electronic problems will be solved in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u269	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u270	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u271	Mr President, the PSD bench records in the quorum check, 86 Mrs and Mrss. Members and the information we have are present to the 89 Members. In any case, it is a special vote which, moreover, lacks an absolute majority of the Members in office or we repeat the quorum check so that everyone can register, which does not always happen because of computer problems, or then the vote will have to be nominal or by row so that it can be found that each of the Members. Members were able to exercise their right to vote, especially when it comes to matters such as this. Mr. President, this is the suggestion that the Democratic Social Party bench makes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u272	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us try again to register all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask the services to re-establish the system so that the registration procedure of the Members can be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u273	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u274	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u275	Mr President, I believe that the problem is identified in the CFP Parliamentary Group. The electronic system does not record Mr Francisco Lopes and Mrs Rita Rato are associated with the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which is clearly incorrect. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u276	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u277	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u278	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to say that Mr. Mr José Manuel Carpinteira and Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, although they are in the Hemicycle, cannot make their records. But we have the 86 Members in mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u279	There are several Mrs. Members who cannot register electronically, but we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u280	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u281	Mr. Luís Montenegro, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u282	Mr President, in an appeal to the Bureau to try to help solve this problem, because if there are days when these computer imperfections cannot leave room for doubt, for the benefit of all those who want to approve and those who want to reject the motion or the motions going to vote, it is today I suggest that it is not difficult to vote by line. There are six rows, six counts, only to add the votes in favour, the votes against and the abstentions and proclaim the result. It is the easiest way to overcome this computer difficulty and to have a reliable vote in the presence of Members in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u283	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Luís Montenegro. I think that's a good solution. We shall then proceed to the vote by row on the motion for a rejection No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — of the XX Constitutional Government Programme ( PS ), and its approval requires an absolute majority of Members to be effective in their duties. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 123 votes in favour (86 PS, 19 BE, 15 PCP, 2 Os Verdes and 1 PAN) and 107 votes against (89 PSD and 18 CDS-PP).]] [[Upstairs, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] The request of the parties that have submitted other motions of rejection is considered that the objective of the first motion of rejection completes this exercise and that it is not worth voting for three more motions of rejection. Therefore, the political consequences are these: the motion of rejection was approved and consequently in accordance with Article 217. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic — Rejection of the Government's programme and vote of confidence — paragraph 6, the President of the Assembly of the Republic shall communicate to the President of the Republic, for the purposes of Article 195. the Constitution, the approval of this motion of rejection. Article 195. the Constitution is the article on the resignation of the Government. The parliamentary groups, wishing, have five minutes to produce explanations of vote. [[Pause.]] With no requests for a word, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed with the reading of the dossier. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u284	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 24 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger process of the National Railway Network ( REFER, EPE) with EP — Estradas de Portugal, SA, and its transformation into an anonymous society with the name Infrastructures de Portugal, SA ( PCP ) and 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of direct adjustment and of the process of « sub-concession » to the private of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-10.u285	Mrs. Members, having finished our work, I inform you that the next plenary session will take place tomorrow, for 15 hours, having as an agenda the evaluation and vote of the draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees ( RA President ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 20 minutes.]]
