ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 42 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we start the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to do the right thing to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the drafts of lein.o 1025 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Alqueva, in the municipality of Portel, district of Évora ( PCP ), 1026 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Amieira, in the municipality of Portel, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1027 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the Organic Law of the Provedoria of Justice, approved by Decree-Law No. 279 / 93 of 11 August, amended by Decree-Law No. 15 / 98 of 29 January, by Decree-Law No. 195 / 2001 of 27 June, and by Decree-Law No. 72 -A / 2010 of 18 June ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 1569/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Rejects the establishment of the Ribatejo Hospital Group ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Finally, I inform you that the Left Block has withdrawn draft resolution No 1526 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Implementation of the Ombudsman's deliberations on teachers of the School Group D. Maria II dismissed due to administrative error ( BE ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u3	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the first item on the agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of draft laws No. 998 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Shorten legal deadlines for elections to the Assembly of the Republic and eliminate unjustified ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality ( PS ) and 1022 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic, fifth amendment to the Electoral Recensation Act and second amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present Bill No. 998 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Luís Pita Amixea has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing here today is a Socialist Party initiative to speed up electoral deadlines to improve our political system. Shortening the electoral deadlines will therefore be a benefit for our political system. What we propose does not add anything new to the deadlines of the law, nor does it take away any of the steps that the electoral law has already laid down. Simply, the current deadlines are all shortened so that we can gain time and speed in the electoral process, as we consider it to be consensual. It is precisely this need for general consensus that must prevail here. Given the subject under discussion, given the moment we are discussing it, we believe that there is an obligation of general consensus, involving all parliamentary groups and the President of the Republic. In addition to the question of deadlines, we also propose abolishing unjustified ineligibility in respect of Portuguese citizens with dual nationality. It is not justified to continue to prohibit these citizens from having more active participation in Portuguese political life. As regards the vote of our emigrants, it should be agile, facilitated, shortening the deadlines, but we are now saying that we reject any amendment which calls into question the reliability of the electoral method abroad. Any change in this area will not have our consensus. It is not at this point that we should do it. The only amendment that can be made one day is, as was done for the President of the Republic, to establish the present vote also in the elections to the Assembly of the Republic, but at the very moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u5	To present Bill No. 1022/ XII ( 4. ( a ), jointly authored by the PSD and the CDS-PP, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups have an initiative that proposes amendments to the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic also in order to speed up the whole electoral process. In line with these amendments, we also want to change the relevant deadlines of the Elections Review Act and the electoral process law abroad. The PSD Parliamentary Group is fully aware that the best time to change electoral deadlines is not the time when we find ourselves, that is, a time so close to the elections. Nevertheless, we are prepared, together with the other parliamentary groups, to discuss this matter and in this sense we are presenting our ideas, and we are no doubt aware of the risk and the negative consequences that may arise. We believe from now on that the Socialist Party's proposal does not properly cover some of these risks. however, in the field of expertise, the PSD Parliamentary Group is available to examine proposals and to make the discussion to improve our electoral process. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u7	Also to present Bill No. 1022/ XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a brief way, even because the presentation is generally seen as a joint bill of law of the parties of the majority, I would like to say that our main concern is to make everything that is the simplest, most efficient and most concentrated electoral process in time. That is to say, reducing the time between the decisive moment of the marking of elections and the start of the work of the future House and, of course, the start of the formation of a new government. That is our central concern. We believe it is a reasonable, serious concern that makes the whole point of national interest. Moreover, in the case of CDS, this is not a new concern. We have come to present this proposal, we have done it in the XI Legislation by the voice of our current parliamentary leader, Mr Nuno Magalhães, with a project that is to a large extent similar to the one that the Socialist Party has now presented and also very similar to that which the majority now presents. With regard to these deadlines, we have tried to concentrate some of the deadlines prior to the election. We do not want to touch, in a fundamental time frame, that of the electoral campaign, of clarification of voters, and we also concentrate a few later times, but an essential caution, which is that all votes can be counted, i.e. that there are no limitations due to the shortening of the deadline itself, because there, when we are taking a certain step, we would be involuntaryly limiting democracy itself. On the other hand, the Socialist Party has now proposed a novelty, integrating it in this area, which is the possibility of electing citizens with dual nationality. We are not against this idea, we have the notion of the relevance of the Portuguese diaspora, we have the notion of the relevance of Portuguese communities throughout the world; however, we believe that possible incompatibilities must be regulated, under the penalty of one citizen, in certain cases, to carry out mandates in two States that may have antagonistic interests. We therefore believe that this is a matter that must be considered. I end as I began: although we admit that this may not be the most desirable moment, our concern, our idea has always been the reduction of deadlines. We believe that all bills that are on the table should be discussed at the specialized level so that a solution is found that corresponds to this narrowing of deadlines, listening to all parties, but we also think that this matter should be as consensual as possible. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u9	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If, as we have seen here, there is room for convergence with regard to the shortening of the electoral deadlines and also with regard to the elimination of discrimination which constitutes the impossibility of Portuguese citizens with double nationality applying to the Assembly of the Republic, it is already absolutely impossible that there is any kind of convergence in relation to one of the aspects presented in the PSD proposal, in particular in Article 9 ( 3 ) to ( 5 ). the Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76, contained in an article of the PSD bill and CDS-PP, so that there is the possibility of making an amendment — which ends up being an amendment with some relevance and some depth — about the form of the Portuguese surrender their vote. This is because it is not even a face-to-face vote, but rather to enable the Portuguese to deliver their vote in consular posts. The great problem here is that there is a possibility of irregularity in this electoral process, insofar as all consular posts are expected to be covered by this amendment and this would lead not only to about 50 posts, but also to the two hundred and such honorary consulates being able to participate in this vote-collection action, rather than to a face-to-face vote. This raises, as I have already mentioned, the possibility of irregularity, insofar as there have already been other cases where this possibility has become evident. I recall, in the context of the election for the European Parliament that is also a face-to-face vote, that in Belém do Pará there were 326 votes for the PSD and only 23 votes for the PS, more than all the combined votes of all Brazilian cities who added 305 to the PSD, compared with 132 votes for the Socialist Party. We must therefore beware of these possibilities, and for this reason we do not converge, in any case, in the possibility of changing the voting procedure by allowing a simple delivery of the vote, without ensuring control, reliability and rigour of the electoral process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u11	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have heard here from the various proposals for the bills that are under discussion discourage approval at this time of any of the initiatives. Let's see: we already know that the legislative elections will be at the beginning of October and how the elections are on Sundays or holidays, and there are no holidays at that time, because the current government has extinguished the holiday of October 5, then it will be either 4 or 11 October. Which means the electoral process is in progress, whether you want it or not. More: the initiative, which is currently being discussed in general, to be adopted in the specialty with minimal attention, will come to promulgation to the Presidency of the Republic by the time it is likely to be running for the next elections. With regard to the deadlines, this issue has been very much debated, particularly when there is imminent dissolution of Parliament and the need to convene early elections and sometimes it is said: 'We will not stay for several months with a slow electoral process, because it is indeed necessary to resolve this quickly'. Well, that's not the case. We are tired of knowing when the elections are going to be, and we also know that in the next six months there can be no other and therefore there is no problem here, no premise to change electoral deadlines. Things are the way they are. The legislative elections will be when we know that it will be — more week, less week — and, as such, there is no need to change electoral deadlines. The worst thing you can do is change electoral deadlines, when even above all the opinion that was received by the National Elections Commission in relation to the PS project — because they haven't even had time to decide on the PSD and CDS project — puts technical objections to the proposed deadlines. I believe that this would be the worst thing the Assembly of the Republic could do, with an ongoing electoral process, probably with deadlines already running at the time this text was submitted for promulgation and with effects already being produced taking into account the elections of next October, in particular in relation to the financing of the electoral campaigns. This would be the same as changing the rules from a proof of athletics to an ongoing test, i.e. the athletes left for a test of 400 m and come to know, in the middle of the test, by an elevator, which is, after all, only 300 m. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not reasonable. Therefore, the most basic caution advises that the amendment of electoral deadlines may be discussed calmly in the next legislature by which you are in this House of the Republic, because the Assembly of the Republic will continue, regardless of the majority it has at all, and there will be time to discuss a matter which should, in fact, be the most consensualised possible with regard to electoral deadlines. On other issues raised here, which no longer only have to do with technical but substantial issues such as the vote by Portuguese residents abroad, then, for the most part, it is advised that there is a lot of caution, that there are very thoughtful solutions and that they are as consensual as possible. All of this is reason why we should not agree in any way with the amendment of the electoral laws to three months of an electoral act. We see no reason for this and, as such, we will vote against the two legislative initiatives, regardless of the concrete consideration their content gives us because, of course, if the projects are approved in general, we will discuss them in the specialty. But the question that we want to leave very strong here is that we consider it deeply inappropriate and it is not reasonable to change electoral deadlines and laws at such a time as the legislative elections. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u13	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the outset, the Left Block states that, if we want to make a surgical amendment to the question of the unjustified ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality, we are absolutely available. It is to correct an injustice, it is to correct a situation that should long be repaired. It has no impact on the next electoral process and it is a matter of principle. So, on this side, we hope with relative ease. On the other hand, it is extraordinary that, since we have had a long legislation, more than four years old, it is precisely in the twenty-fifth hour that we seek to change some electoral processes. Not that we do not have sympathy for this new process, because everything that means reducing the period of a management government has already been realised, in Portugal, that it is positive, because the lengthening of management government periods is very negative for the public. Also clarifying the new political framework more rapidly would also help, particularly when we have a very popular and problematic President of the Republic, who has already made a set of statements about what might or might not be the next post-election executive. But here really is a matter of principle. We are opposed to a series of amendments on the journalistic follow-up of electoral campaigns, and this had to do with the electoral period, and, for the most part, with regard to the amendments at this time in relation to the deadlines, the course, the process until the elections and after the elections. Therefore, there can be no decision here that has less maturity. There are aspects, perhaps correct, in the proposals of both the right coalition and the Socialist Party; there are other less correct aspects, but we do not have the time or the conditions to criticise these initiatives. This was all done on the knee. That's the acrimony I see. For example, the proposal of the right-wing coalition was to recover an initiative from the CDS, several years ago, to which we abstained even, but in such a way the thing was done on the knee and hastened that the explanatory statement of the bill still refers to a relative majority government, that is, the last government of the Socialist Party. It is not even the government of the present majority—see how this was done on the knee. Therefore, we cannot rely on a process that does not have enough maturation, which does not have the conditions for all solutions and opinions to be technically seen. We follow the intention and reiterate that, if you want to solve the problem of injustice surgically, the ineligibility of the situation of nationals who also have another nationality, we are open and we will do so - surgically. On the other hand, it is absolutely extemporaneous and we must tell the parties that they constantly claim to be the ruler's arch, that they should remember this at the beginning of the mandates and not at the twenty-fifth hour of the mandates themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u15	Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, which seeks to speed up the whole electoral process by shortening deadlines, has direct consequences in exercising the voting rights of Portuguese residents abroad who, in the elections to the Assembly of the Republic — and I remind the House — vote by correspondence. It therefore seemed very important to us, even very important, that, at the same time as the proposed reduction of deadlines, we should take into account the specificity of the vote in the circles of emigration, so that the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS proceed with a proposal approaching the mixed voting method which, as is public knowledge, we always defend and which aims at a greater principle, which is to allow the participation of the largest number of voters. I would like to ask the Socialist Party how it is possible, with the shortening of deadlines, to speed up the vote of Portuguese residents abroad if the vote is by postal procedure and all of us, who know this area of emigration, know that we have countries in Africa and South America in which postal services work badly and shortening deadlines has a terrible effect on democracy, because the number of voters decreases?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u18	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u19	I am also very surprised by the Socialist Party's statements. It is that we were here today to know something that concerns me, but that must also concern all Portuguese. The Socialist Party has recently advanced with an electoral programme in which it proposes, precisely for voting in the circles of emigration, the possibility of introducing new methodologies and electronic voting, something that we experienced in 2005 and why we were highly criticized. But today, by the word of Mr Pita Amixa, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we learned that the programme is only for social communication, for Portuguese is different because it was said here that the Socialist Party's objective is that in the future the vote in the legislative elections is to be like the vote in the presidential elections, i.e. the present vote, which is really going to limit, in a profound way, the vote of the Portuguese residents abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u20	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u21	How is it possible to put the new methodologies into the programme and today, in the House of Democracy, to say precisely the opposite? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It's true! And Dr. Ferro Rodrigues knows very well about this. Our proposal also eliminates the principle of the ineligibility of Portuguese citizens with dual nationality who so far could not be candidates for the electoral circle of the country covering their second nationality. This amendment responds to a point which dates back to 1999 when for the first time this problem was raised by the Portuguese communities. at the time, there were changes in lists and there were even candidates who had to give up their candidacy. My colleague Paulo Pisco, in 1999, arrived in Parliament, precisely because the candidate Manuel de Almeida, of the Socialist Party, of the French Federation, was binational. And it is strange that, having never agreed to this measure, now come so many years later, you proposed it, when throughout all these years, in the electoral circles of emigration, in the eligible places, not even the name of an emigrant presented. This is truly extraordinary! Despite everything, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that today, through the diplomas presented, there are other parties, particularly the PS, which have associated themselves with this desire to amend the Electoral Law to the Assembly of the Republic as regards the ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality. Unfortunately, it was once again proved here that the Socialist Party in electoral matters —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u22	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u23	...I shall finish, Madam President, again, by presenting a proposal which, despite having direct consequences on the vote of migrants, was not sensitive to this reality....
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u24	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u25	... irrespective of the amendments it proposes may have negative consequences for the participation of voters of the emigration circles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u26	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u27	When is the sensitivity to migrants? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u28	Mr Telmo Correia is registered for an intervention. Mr. Paulo Pisco asks to intervene, but the PS has no time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u29	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u30	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u31	Mr President, as you know, these issues are extremely important, especially that of emigration. Because Mr. PSD's Member exceeded the allowed time by 1 minute and 36 seconds,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u32	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u33	... on a question of fairness, the President should give Mr Paul Pisco one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u34	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, the parliamentary group's claim, as a political claim, is always legitimate, but we cannot have a pre-understanding of the contents of the legislation to make a millimetric rigor, which has never been done here. Of course you are. Ladies and gentlemen must observe the regiment times. The Bureau does not have the omnipotent power to always control rigorously, but this exception applies as a political argument to the honourable Member and it does not seem to me that I can create a new method here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u35	Excuse me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u36	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u37	Mr President, I admit your judgment, but I find it completely unacceptable—and I have looked several times at the time panel—as the PSD and the CDS, when they present the initiative together, have twice as much time, if they allow time to pass in this way. I therefore request at least to accept Mr Paulo Pisco's request. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u38	Mr President, as will be recorded at the end of this session, I have three times warned the PSD Member to conclude his speech, as is so often the case with so many Members. Let's go on, if you don't mind. I will give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u39	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u40	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u41	Madam President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u42	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u43	Madam President, in order to restore the truth in relation to an assertion that is absolutely incorrect and abusive of what my colleague Pita Amisena's statements have been about our intentions with regard to the institution...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u44	Are you in defense of the honor of the bench, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u45	It is in defense of the honor of the bench, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u46	Of course, Mr. Deputies. I will then give the floor to Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, who has the right to give explanations, of course. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u47	Madam President, it is absolutely essential that we do not manipulate or transform what the Socialist Party intends to do. What really raises a lot of doubts is the majority of us to make a proposal that ‘is not meat or fish’, insofar as it wants voters to vote not at present but to take their votes to consulates, which opens the door massively to irregularities and that is what we reject.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u48	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u49	They are true « hats » which are set out in Article 9 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). the Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76, contained in an article of the PSD bill and CDS-PP, and which we reject completely. What the PSD proposes here is a form of face-to-face vote, but it is not, in fact. It is a way to gain advantage, especially in some electoral circles, and that is what we do not accept. We reject these types of accusations, because the Socialist Party has always been, and will always be, in favour of the widest level of participation of Portuguese residents abroad. It is a matter of honor for us and we do not compromise on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u50	Mr Carlos Gonçalves has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u51	Madam President, I am going to have to defend today, here, the honour of the Portuguese communities,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS laughter.]] ...because what is at stake is the political participation and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents a proposal for shortening deadlines which has consequences in the number of voters...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u53	... and presents nothing alternative to be able to question. What's at stake is a right. The Portuguese who are abroad are Portuguese as the lords of the Socialist Party's bench. And one of the rights inherent in citizenship is civic and political participation. Mr. Paulo Pisco said that I handled... I did not manipulate, the statements were from Mr. Pita Amixa, who said precisely that... [[Protests by PS Paulo Pisco.]] Sir, don't interrupt me! I know it's complicated. You have made an election programme, but the Portuguese today have learned that it is not to be fulfilled. They haven't even arrived at the government yet, there aren't even elections and they're already questioning what they wrote. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And the Portuguese immigrants, who have given so much to Portugal, who have contributed in an extraordinary way at this time of crisis, deserved more from the Socialist Party. But the Socialist Party has a problem with communities: it fears the vote of Portuguese communities, fears the vote of Portuguese migrants. in the background, he's afraid of Portugal! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate. You are registered, because you still have time, Mr Telmo Correia. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to conclude the position of the CDS in this debate in a very serene way, saying, first of all, that we must not forget that this is in fact a matter of national interest, as has been acknowledged in some way even by critical voices, as has been the case of Mr Luís Fazenda. That is to say, we have less management time, we have a shorter deadline for the formation of the new government, we have clearer rules and we resolve the issue of binationals corresponds to the national interest. Nor can we forget, Madam President, that we have had a very clear appeal from the President of the Republic on this matter. I know it doesn't touch all the parties, not all of them look and hear the appeals of Mr. President of the Republic in the same way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u56	Even the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u57	...but it was a clear appeal. However, I understand some of the arguments put forward here. True, this is a complex time to make this decision. Mr António Filipe said that this was to change the rules of proof in the light of evidence. Mr António Filipe, in spite of everything, I would say that he continues to be athletic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u59	Despite everything, it's still athletic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u60	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u61	I shall conclude, Madam President. We cut in time to go to the blocks, cut in the medal delivery ceremony, but the running time is still the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u62	Do you also cut tennis to the participants? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u63	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u64	Madam President, I'm just gonna finish an idea. Mr. João Oliveira, I will comfort you by saying the following: however, I think that some of the debate we have had here and the difficulty, which we have already realized, of reaching consensus on this subject, in particular with the position we have heard from the Socialist Party, may solve your problem, because it does not seem easy, in fact, to obtain consensus, even if it was good and desirable. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u65	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 998 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 1022 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). We move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion, together, of the projects of lein.o 545 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Improving the allocation rules and amending the duration and amounts of unemployment and social unemployment allowance ( CFP ) and 546 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the social allowance for extraordinary unemployment ( CFP ), in general, of petition No 401 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by CGTP-IN — General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to legislate in order to ensure the right to employment and social protection in unemployment, and draft law No 1018 / XII ( 4 ). ( a) — Protects long-term unemployed persons, facilitates access to unemployment benefit (BE), also in general. To present the PCP bills, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to join the CGTP petition, which has collected more than 27 000 signatures and which defends the right to employment and protection in unemployment. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I realized that this position makes the CDS-PP uncomfortable. We would like to greet, in a warm manner, the delegation of the CGTP here present and the work they have had in collecting these signatures. More and better protection in unemployment to curb poverty and the worsening exploitation of those who work — this is what the CFP proposes with the two bills that today bring to the discussion and that respond to the challenge launched by the CGTP. For the CFP, it is not acceptable that, having strictly in accordance with INE 676 000 unemployed, more than 395 000 workers have no support for unemployment. If the unemployed are restricted to join the inactive, the unemployed, the unemployed and the visible underemployment, workers who, being unemployed, do not count for the statistics as unemployed, then we will have about 1, 2 million unemployed and more than 900 000 of them receive no unemployment support. More: the average value of unemployment benefit has fallen. If in January 2012 the average unemployment benefit was €503, in 2015, it remained for €448. That is, this PSD/CDS government has lowered the average value by 50 €. Thus, it is not by chance that poverty among the unemployed reached, in 2013, unacceptable and scandalously 40, 5 %. These facts do not happen by chance. Subsequent PSD / CDS and PS governments, as a result of successive changes to the legislation on unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, have led to the degradation of this very important social protection mechanism of workers in unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u67	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u68	The objective is clear: employers, PSDs, CDSs and PSs know very well that an unemployed and unemployed worker is forced to accept any job, any type of contract, any working time, any arbitrariness and any salary imposed on him by his employer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u69	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u70	Therefore, the cut in social support in unemployment has not only economic objectives, it is essentially an instrument to create the conditions necessary to aggravate the exploitation of those who work. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party considers this situation unacceptable, and therefore, despite our understanding that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the rules governing the allocation of unemployment benefit, the CFP proposes, with these legislative initiatives, to improve the conditions for the allocation of unemployment benefit, in particular in its amounts and duration, and to create an extraordinary social unemployment allowance which, during the next three years, is subject to re-evaluation, to ensure that no worker is protected, even if the period of allocation of unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit is exhausted. For the CFP, it is urgent to block the path of exploitation and poverty. For the CFP, it is urgent to block the path of devaluation of workers and labour by reducing wages. Others will have commitments to the exploitation, to the employer and to the reduction of wages, so that the rich will get richer and richer. We in the CFP have a commitment to the workers to build a more just and supportive society in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u71	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A special greeting to the CGTP here present, represented by its executive committee, and, in particular, to the Secretary-General of the CGTP for the dynamisation of a petition of great importance. A petition signed by more than 27 000 citizens and citizens characterizing the emergency situation and the desperate situation in which many thousands of workers and workers live, a social emergency situation for which the petition presents some proposals. Proposals which we wish to endorse and why we have put forward a legislative initiative in this regard. This bill of the Left Block does not intend to resolve all the deficiencies of the current unemployment regime. however, and because it is urgent to respond to this social emergency, we propose in it measures that, in our perspective, respond. We propose that the period of guarantee, i.e. the time for access to unemployment benefit be cut by 180 days in the 24 months preceding unemployment and we propose that the time be reduced for access to social unemployment benefit for 90 days in the 12 months preceding this eventuality. With these two proposals, we feel that we are particularly responding to precarious workers, then to younger workers, who have been forced by this government to leave the country seeking employment. We also propose a special protection regime for the long-term unemployed, many and many of whom, by the way, have invested a whole life of work in many companies and, at the end of this entire working life, have been unprotected. We therefore understand — in the same way as the petition — that the social unemployment allowance should be extended to all and to all unemployed, until they are placed on the labour market (and speak of the long-term unemployed) or have access to the old-age pension. Finally, we also propose the possibility of anticipating the age of access to the old age pension for those who are unemployed, are 60 years old and are unemployed at 57 years old, and we do so in a way that only obeys the rules of access to the pension, i.e. without penalty. This is the proposal we also make. We believe that we contribute to this social emergency, whose situation stems from the government's incompetence in combating unemployment and also greater social protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u73	Mr António Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I greet the CGTP for this petition, which enriches this debate on the social situation of unemployed workers. The draft laws of the PCP and BE and still petition No 401 / XII ( 3. ( a ) by the CGTP-IN, they aim to defend the rights of workers, in particular on changes in the duration and amounts of unemployment and social unemployment allowances, the creation of an extraordinary social unemployment allowance and the right to employment and social protection. These convergent legislative initiatives seek to respond to the serious social scourge that fats in the country, namely the fight against poverty growth in the most disadvantaged classes, especially in the unemployed population. There are several causes that led the country to this crisis situation, highlighting the lack of measures that allow fundamental economic growth to contrast with the policy of austerity followed by the government. The inability to solve this problem of austerity is proven over the past few years, where the number of unemployed does not come from 500 000, half of whom receive no social support. The high unemployment of hopeless young people in the country, forced to emigration, with values similar to the generation that preceded me. Others, the discouraged ones who join in this social scourge that takes a long time to go down. The precariousness of work is another negative factor in the world of work, which leads to the immoral exploitation of defenseless workers in the face of the inertia of supervisory services. But the government did not abandon only the precarious ones. Of the around 500 000 unemployed who do not receive any benefits, there are long-term unemployed, which are around 250 000 of the total number of registered unemployed. This instability prevents many workers from having access to unemployment allowance because the deadlines are too short. It should be pointed out here that the Socialist Party has already proposed, at the state budget, the extension of the social unemployment allowance for six more months, which has been rejected by the majority. There are truly dramatic situations of workers who were fired after a long working life and who, without reaching the age of access to the old age pension, eventually exhaust the time of subsistence without finding another source of income. For the PS, the proposals submitted by the CFP, increasing unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit and creating the extraordinary unemployment benefit do not fit the country's budgetary reality. The costs inherent in these proposals are unacceptable. [[PCP protests.]] As regards matters relating to the extension of long-term social allowance, it cannot be a constitutional right, since constitutional law is, yes, guaranteeing the right to a decent work. As has been said before, the PS has defended the extension, exceptionally, for another six months, but most, insensitive to these dramas, has rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u75	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u76	I shall conclude, Madam President. The PS welcomes the initiatives and, although unrealistic, considers them to be a pedagogical warning to a government that strives to have a country full of safes emptying the pockets of workers, a country where the rich are increasingly rich and the poor are increasingly poor. Let me remind myself of the sad past of my generation, where most of them were barefoot, the Treasure was crawling with gold bars and the people living in the mines and proudly alone! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u77	And you're going to vote against bills? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u78	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Ecological Party 'The Greens', to greet the more than 27 000 subscribers of the petition, which calls on the House to legislate in order to ensure the right to employment and social protection in unemployment, and also the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion, not only for dynamizing the petition we are now discussing and which, in our view, is of the greatest importance, but also for the work and all the actions that have been developed in defence of those who work and those who cannot find work. As you know, unemployment is the most serious problem we are facing today: 1, 2 million unemployed is an absolutely unacceptable universe that should embarrass the PSD/CDS government itself. These are numbers for which this government has greatly contributed, in particular with amendments to the labour laws it has promoted, encouraged and encouraged. at a time when it was, and it is imperative to wage a serious fight against unemployment, this government facilitated dismissal and made it cheaper, in a kind of invitation to employers to lay off. In very strict terms, what the Government has done with its amendments to labour laws has been an appeal to employers to race the layoff balances. In good rigour, this government's employment policy is to fire workers in the public sector and promote dismissal in the private sector. The situation is even more serious if we take into account that thousands and thousands of unemployed workers do not have access to either unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit. These thousands and thousands of people do not have access to any social support because this PSD/CDS government, but also the former Socialist Party Government, have tried to make several changes to the rules on the allocation of unemployment benefit for the clear and exclusive purpose of making it difficult and even preventing the unemployed from accessing these important social support and thus sending thousands and thousands of families to the most complete poverty, as well as showing the numbers that have been disseminated by the National Institute of Statistics. With these options of the PSD Government / CDS, but also with the options of the previous Government of the Socialist Party, we have seen an even more worrying trend: there are more and more unemployed people without access to the unemployment allowance and those who take it receive it less and less and more for periods of time. Now, in the face of this sad scenario, this House cannot remain indifferent and "swim aside" as if nothing was happening. This House has an obligation to promote and seek solutions to find some justice not only in the allocation rules but also in the duration and values of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. That is why the Greens will not just say that petitioners have all the reason in the world, because that is very little and little adds. The Greens will vote in favour of the legislative initiatives which are under discussion and which seek to respond to this serious problem, thus meeting the aims and objectives of the nearly 30 000 subscribers to this petition which concerns a very serious problem and which requires effective answers by this House of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u80	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin my speech by complimenting the petitioners, the CGTP-IN. Regarding the Left Block initiative as well as the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party, they are, as usual, sick with the same evil: there is no quantification of measures. This is what would be called « Syriza proposals ». It is all very easy when you are in opposition because you promise worlds and funds, everything is possible, everything is done, obviously having the notion that it is perfectly unrealistic and that the financial capacity of the Portuguese State will not involve even a third of the measures that you propose. I would like to draw a line between the petition and the initiatives of the parliamentary groups. On the one hand, through the petition, it is first asked that the State ensure the constitutional principle of implementing policies of full employment. That is what this government has done in encouraging economic growth in its various sectors and the consequent growth in employment. from which, in 2013, unemployment has reached peaks, i.e. 18 %, and at present has fallen to 12, 8 %, according to the latest quarterly data and is therefore already at the same level as it was at the time of the Socialist Party Government. It is only thus justified that, and in the scrupulously fulfilment of this constitutional mandate by the Government, since 2013 more than 200 000 jobs have been created, which means that 200 000 workers were unemployed and have become self-employed. On the other hand, the proposals of the parliamentary groups concern changes to the current legislation on unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. I would like to say that this Government, since it has taken over, has taken the following measures in these areas: it has reintroduced the increase in unemployment benefit for dependent couples, that the Socialist Party has abolished, after having been approved in this House ; it has preserved the period of granting the unemployment allowance for workers with longer paid careers, making an increase of 60 days, for beneficiaries over 40 years; it has reduced the guarantee period of access to the unemployment allowance of 540 days, which was the period of time of the Socialist Party, for 360 days; it has created the unemployment allowance for self-employed persons who demonstrate that they receive more than 80 % of their income from the same entity; and it has created the period of unemployment allowance for those who are self-employed. in general, the current coverage of state social support is much more comprehensive than that of 2011, in the time of the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u82	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u83	I will conclude, Mr President, therefore, that we think — it is our opinion — it does not necessarily have to be yours — that this government, both in terms of job creation, economic dynamisation and the possibility of workers entering the labour market and in terms of the social support that the Government has to give to workers, has done well and has protected workers' rights. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u85	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, to make a special compliment to the local authority and the mayors of the Viseu district, Sernancelle council, present in the galleries. Considering that today the petition submitted by the CGTP is also under consideration, I take advantage to greet all petitioners for the respect that the subject deserves us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the projects submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left to this House, I should like to inform myself of the difficulty that this parliamentary bench sees in reaching agreement with the left parliamentary benches, when the contextualization of these projects is based on completely uncontextualized statements of the reality of the country. In fact, it is characteristic of these benches to live a world apart, decontextualized from the reality of the country in which they live and the world around them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u86	Imagine that the Portuguese Communist Party, in the context of its draft law, considers political options of national misfortune those that are taken by a government that has balanced the public accounts, that took the country out of a bankruptcy situation and that puts its economy in the path of growth. Does the Portuguese Communist Party consider it a policy of national disgrace to place Portugal on the front line of European countries in job creation, to have more and better employment, to have more full-time employment, less part-time employment and to have more contracts without end? This is what this government has done, which has reduced unemployment. I take advantage of reminding the Socialist Party that half a million unemployed come from its governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u87	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u88	Finally, the Portuguese Communist Party considers national poverty policy a government that returns sovereignty to the country and credibility in front of the world. Question: how do left-wing parties classify the current policy followed by countries such as Greece? I cannot fail to recall that during the period when the country recorded higher unemployment rates, this government has advanced with policies to combat this scourge and that have already been mentioned, such as: reduction of periods of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit; increase of unemployment allowance for couples where both spouses were unemployed, increasing their income by 20 %; increase to double the period of allocation of social unemployment benefit. It should be noted that, despite the reduction in periods of unemployment benefit provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding, the training rights of beneficiaries have been safeguarded and the rights of workers with longer and older careers, especially over 50 years of age, have been safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u90	More: with a view to the dynamisation and integration of unemployed workers into the labour market, the possibility of partial payment of the single amount of unemployment benefits was created with continued payment of unemployment benefits. It should be pointed out that there was a need to ensure that changes to the unemployment protection regime were accompanied by the strengthening of active employment policies, that I stress vocational reintegration programmes in the workplace, such as the Active Life measure, for long-term unemployed, as well as the increase of age in access to vocational traineeships for people over 30 years old, which was intended only for young people, thus favouring long-term unemployed. And other measures to support the unemployed could be mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u91	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u92	I'm done now, Mr. President. The measures mentioned here were also supplemented with others, such as the exemption of moderate to unemployed rates and the creation of social energy tariffs, among other benefits. I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: this, yes, is social sensitivity, because even in the face of the conditionalities of submission to the troika, what the projects of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block reveal is electoral sensitivity! For this purpose it does not count on the contribution of the PSD bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u93	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u94	The petitioners can count on a party which is committed to reducing the unemployment rate, on the competitiveness of businesses, creating more employment, more social inclusion and not on the defence of an income based on subsidiarity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u95	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u96	Mr President, taking in the last words given by Mrs Teresa Santos, the subsidy was the tax forgiveness of EUR 3000 million that they gave to the New Bank. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u97	For that there is no problem, Mr Artur Rêgo. There's no money problems anymore. It's quantified. Therefore, you reveal a very clear option, that you are on the side of the capital against the unemployed and the unemployed, against the work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] You have no sensitivity when you know very well that more than 900 000 people have no support for unemployment. You know that today there are in the group of the most unemployed registered unemployed, who are the discouraged, and I am no longer talking about the 300 000 who left the country. You know there are 1, 3 million people or more effectively unemployed and you know exactly that only about 300 000 people have protection in unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u98	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u99	So they're not worried about the 900 000 people who don't have any kind of protection. And come the ladies and gentlemen. Members speak in an election campaign, say that there is no money and, curiously, say that they even understand and subscribe to the petition, which they understand? Oh, my God! But what the petition says is that the government has an obligation to create policies of full employment, which it has not done, and to extend protection to people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy at this time is not worth it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u100	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is shown here that in the matter of protection of unemployment we have a national troika and it is clear that the position of this national troika — PS, PSD and CDS — is exactly the same. They point out that there is no budgetary capacity to turn to the unemployed, but I point out two examples. First of all, the illegal tax forgiveness given to the New Bank of EUR 445 million shows that our country has the capacity to address those who are unemployed. By political option, PSD and CDS-PP do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u103	Secondly, it is interesting that the PS, the CDS and the PSD say that the PCP proposals, which aim to reach 900 000 Portuguese people who have no protection in unemployment, although they are unemployed, do not meet the budgetary reality when these same parties, PSS, PSS and CDS, which two weeks ago rejected the concrete proposals presented by the CFP to strengthen the financing of social security to address this reality. They do not want to strengthen social security, nor do they want to protect the unemployed, because there is a fundamental ideological option.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u105	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u106	The ideological option of PS, PSD and CDS, alongside the Portuguese patronate, is to protect those who effectively want to exploit, by blackmailing the unemployed, who are obliged to accept any job, any salary, any arbitraryness that is imposed on them because there is no protection in unemployment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions or more time, we will move to the next item on our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolution No 1456/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures for inclusive education ( BE) and draft law No 1017 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Special Education Legal System ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For some time here in the plenary, the Left Block has adopted a draft resolution, in four points, on what appears to be evidence today. There is a backwardness in the area of special education, there are many distortions, there are aggravated exclusions and it is necessary to review the framework of legislation. The Government has promised to revise the legislation on special education until December of the end of the year, has not done so and will finish its mandate without doing so. at this time, there is pending a highly vindicated, structuring, reasoned recommendation of the National Council of Education on what the review of this legislative framework should be. The benches of the majority, as well as the others, accompanied this draft resolution that contained some fundamental axes—we almost copied these axes from the recommendation of the National Council of Education—on the review of everything that has to do with clinical reference. And we added the pedagogical element of Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008. The review, revocation and complete amendment of the portal has been segregating students of special education in relation to secondary education. There is an enormous consensus on these problems, but there is an emptiness due to various difficulties, due to political inability, due to obstinacy, whatever the reason, and we do not have the new legislative framework. So today we are presenting a draft resolution, in a minimalist way. We follow the PCP bill, which already aims to create a legal regime, but we do not want to do so and we just want to take a set of immediate and urgent measures, one of which is an extraordinary survey of all situations of young people and children with special educational needs. That is, it is a generalized survey using an effective clinical reference. We know that many of the processes that have applied for special education grants — social security provision — have not had a proper assessment of the clinical situation. Thus, we understand that we must have a generalized survey of these situations in order to be able to know quite strictly how many young people and children with special educational needs are, with an effective criterion of clinical reference. We also called for the creation of an independent committee — it was good that this could be possible — for the next school year to hold the national school-by-school survey, group-by-grouping of all special educational needs, existing technicians, teachers, type of reference and type of reference units. Finally, we hope that a set of measures will be implemented in the coming academic year to ensure that there is adequate coverage of all these needs. Therefore, what we are asking for is an extraordinary situation for the lifting of these situations and for the implementation of urgent measures. We're waiting for the support of the majority benches. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u109	I'll inform you. Members that the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ana Brasseur, and Greta Faggiani, deputy to the head of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, are in the gallery of the diplomatic corps, accompanied by Mr Mota Amaral. We shall therefore address them with a greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira's speech is now being followed. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After four years of PSD / CDS governance, what is left is the shortage of special education teachers, the lack of technicians and employees and the absence of other special education professionals. And they are also children and young people without the necessary support, because decisive support has been denied that guarantee the effective inclusion of these children and young people with special needs in public schools in their communities. This is the result of the cut of more than EUR 2000 million in public school and EUR 53 million in special education. This is the denial of these children and young people of objective conditions of access and frequency of education under equal conditions, as enshrined in the Constitution and the law of bases, as set out in the anti-discrimination law, as reflected in the Salamanca Declaration and in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in a set of international instruments ratified by the Portuguese State that successive governments have overrun through education policies of deep backwardness and attacks on the fundamental rights of these children and young people. the PSD/CDS government is responsible for the discrimination of these children and young people and for the degradation of their pedagogical and inclusive process. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the CFP brings to the discussion a legal regime of special education with solutions that respond to the problems felt by students with special needs and with solutions that guarantee the fulfilment of the rights of these children and young people. We propose reduced classes, multidisciplinary teams and multi-professional teams for early intervention in childhood and the adequacy of buildings and equipment. We propose the establishment of the National Institute of Inclusive Education, with responsibilities of directing and coordinating the Inclusion Resource Centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u112	We propose the creation of inclusion support offices for students with special needs attending public higher education. We defend an articulated response with a view to the prevention and early detection of disability or risk situations and an early intervention in childhood. We ensure the existence of technical, financing and social action targeted at an effective equality of opportunities, the existence of all appropriate educational resources, human resources, material and pedagogical resources. We propose the repeal of Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, Law No. 21 / 2008 and Ordinance No. 275 -A / 2012, legal instruments created by PS, PSD and CDS of backwardness of the educational process including these students. Diversity is a value and not an obstacle. It is the school that needs to adapt to the diversity of its students. The right to education must be guaranteed to all, on equal opportunities and responding to the educational needs of all. the State fulfils its investments, assumes its responsibilities in fulfilling a free, quality and inclusive public school and guarantees all the conditions that make the right to education effective, since it is a constitutional right and a fundamental human right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u113	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party recognises and has no doubt about the importance of inclusion in the design of a successful life. This awareness is well present in all the work of the current government and proof of this are the words of the Deputy Director of the European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education, Victoria Soriano. at the II Seminar « Inclusion, Education and Self-determination », organized by the Association of Brain Paralysis of Coimbra last June, in which I was present, Victoria Soriano said that Portugal is one of the best European countries in inclusive education. According to data presented at the same conference, the percentage of students with special educational needs without access to inclusive education in Portugal is one of the lowest in Europe, a better result than in Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. The European leader also stressed the success of the Portuguese transition programme for inclusive education, highlighting the role of the Inclusion Resource Centres. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the draft resolution of the Parliamentary Group on the Left Block, entitled « Exceptional measures for inclusive education », would like to recall an aspect which seems essential to me to make this discussion more substantiated: the allocation of special education allowance to students is a complex and demanding mechanism, which requires a serious clinical reference process, because what is at stake is the best interest of children and young people with special needs of permanent character. The reference process is already covered by the current legislation and there should be no exceptional reference process for the reasons already mentioned. As for the special education allowance, it is intended to be attributed to those of whom it effectively needs, and its allocation should not lose sight of its true purpose: that of providing children and young people with access to the school curriculum in an enabling and non-rehabilitive perspective, since the latter will be the health sector. Therefore, we do not consider it relevant that under the current legislation there is a change in procedures. We understand, yes, that there is a systematic intervention by the National Health Service, so that these children and young people are referred to the services and support that best respond to their needs. in this follow-up, the current government, through the Ministry of Education and Science, is joint with the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security and with the Ministry of Health a greater rationalization of the system to improve the reference of students with special and specific educational needs and their support. As regards the appointment of an independent committee to complete the collection of the number of students with special educational needs, I am pleased to say that the Directorate-General for School Establishments is carrying out annual monitoring of special education by school and class, raising data for all students with special needs of permanent character, within the framework of Decree-Law No 3/2008. These data are collected and published by the Directorate-General.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u115	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u116	I will finish, Mr. President. Moreover, the monotorization of the survey of support provided to each student, by teacher and technician, allows an inventory of diagnosis. Therefore, creating another independent committee for the same purpose seems to us to be inappropriate. We must demand, yes, that these institutions work hard on the objectives. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I should like to point out that, within the framework of the inclusion resource centres, the Ministry of Education has been increasing the number of supported students and verifying the support allocated, in order to ensure that adequate support is allocated to the students who really need it. And, to describe what I have just mentioned, the Ministry has already published a work of evaluation of the CRIS (Centro de Rehabilitation e Integration Social ) with a view to improving its procedures. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u117	Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this matter of special education we have already done in this House discussions, several meetings and reflections within the Working Group. All the problems are identified and have been referred to the government, but by the way, the government has made these appeals to us. In fact, we are waiting for the promised legislative package on special education, such a new legislative building on special education, but the Government, since the beginning of the Legislature, has been inflating on this matter and has not so far presented this promised legislative package on special education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the reflections we have made in this House, and there have been many, we have always been certain that the biggest problem is not even in the legislation, that it is not being applied rigorously and seriously by the Executive ; the biggest problem is in the policy of the Executive, that the system of education and its educational policy is verging to an ideological policy that has nothing to do with the quality of public and inclusive school, and that it is found to be a policy based on a strategy of elitiszization of teaching and dismantling of public school, in Portugal, for all and on equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with government policies we are increasingly away from inclusive school. We are going back, as has already been said and as it is said by all educational agents. Everything is worse, much worse than four years ago, because cutting blindly in education and, in particular, in special education is irremediably compromising the development process of children and young people, which, as we all know, constitutes a violation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and even of human rights. In addition, cutting blindly in education and in particular in special education reveals a strong social and human insensitivity of the majority of the government, which has, as we all know and we verify on the ground, dramatic consequences in schools and families with children with special educational needs, no longer to speak, because there is no time, of the implications these policies cause in the short, medium and long-term in the socio-economic development of our country itself, revealing a myopia, a lack of strategic vision of the majority for the sustainable and sustainable development of the country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u119	Regarding the initiatives under consideration, I would like to say in relation to the draft resolution submitted by the Left Block that we only do not agree and do not follow point 1 which refers to an inadequate concept, because the reference to which it refers, based merely on clinical criteria, is not the most appropriate one, and this concept should also comply with socio-pedagogic criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u120	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u121	Finally, in relation to the bill presented by the PCP, I mean that it is a heated project, which has already been discussed in this House, and our position is the same and it is in the minutes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout these four years, here in the Assembly of the Republic, we have organized several conferences, hearings, seminars, visits and hearings on special education and on all topics relating to special education, from the consequences of increasing compulsory education, early intervention, special education allowance and the amendment of Decree-Law No 3/2008, which regulates educational needs. at the same time two detailed reports were prepared, one, of the National Council of Education, as mentioned here, and another, of the government itself, which do objective analyses and point out solutions to improve the system, so that it can give adequate response and all students and all these families. The debate was intense and, at the end of these years, we can be sure that this was a subject considered of lesser importance but is now considered one of the priorities of education and involves the entire educational community. Over the last few years, the number of students with special educational needs has increased considerably, about 50% in all cycles, and at the same time it was necessary to adapt schools to these students, taking into account the increase in compulsory education, and to offer them a curriculum that meets their needs and aspirations, so that the school is effectively inclusive and a concrete added value in the transition to active life. As you know, and has already been said several times, special education is not an issue of the exclusive sphere of education, because both health and social security have a decisive role, despite being complementary, in all this process. Thus, it was also one of the objectives of this majority to list this interministerial relationship as a priority, and its coordination, in a manner and in fact, effective. It is a fact, and it is true, that there is still much to be done, that it is necessary to amend Decree-Law No 3/2008, and do not revoke it, as the CFP proposes, and take another step forward. however, this does not invalidate that we do not recognize everything that has been done so far, despite the difficulties, the increase in the number of students with special educational needs and a greater awareness and demand of the educational community and in all families in relation to this reality. During these four years, about 700 special education teachers were included in the picture, the number of psychologists in schools increased and there was an investment in the resource centres for inclusion, and this school year almost twice the number of students supported by CRIS was spent two years ago. however, throughout all this time, the opposition did not know how to focus the debate where it should be focused and was concerned to use special education as a political weapon—and still does so! — focusing almost exclusively on special education grants and CRIS support numbers. Of course, this is a fundamental theme, but it is not isolated and can only be considered fundamental and can only be seriously discussed if it is seen in an integrated way, which has not happened. What is essential is that the form of families be found to have access to serious and objective diagnoses, that the support be not overlapped, that the CRIS network be extended, in a coherent and rational manner, and that inclusive education not only serves for students to be in school but also to progress within the school. What has been done so far has been essential in this regard. It is true that the work is not finished and that the process must continue, but of the two proposals we are discussing here today, that of BE is making a chart of everything that has been done and presenting proposals which, in the background and as has already been said, already exist, that is, the data already exist, the numbers already exist and the statistics they are asking for are already made. With regard to the CFP, of course, which, by approving what they propose, is not about continuing work but rather about taking a step back, or rather, several steps back in relation to special education and inclusive school. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u124	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention, relying on his power of synthesis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u125	Surely, Mr. President. Mr Jacinto Serrão did not read the left block proposal well because when it comes to clinical reference criteria this has to do with the special education grant, with the provision of social security, which obliges an element of a clinical authority and there are thousands of students who have lost that allowance because no clinical authority has been part of their evaluation process. So what we want is that the law is complied with and there is a clinical authority that can make the reference. This is not about special education in general, but about those students who are entitled to social security. This is not about the public school system. Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, there is no overlap of support; there are thousands of young people and children who have lost no support. Given these explanations, Mrs Margarida Almeida, the question is not to come here to glorify the government, to make pre-election propaganda; the report you mentioned is much more critical—and it is from the Government! — on the centres for inclusion, the CRIS, than what you have told us. The question, which no one in the majority has answered, is the following: Minister Nuno Crato said that there would be a legislative framework until December. There is no legislative framework! No action! There's nothing! There's nothing wrong! So what you came here to say was pure fiction. Pure fiction! The honourable Member may read the foreign praises she understands, all and some more, but there is no survey done, there is no review of the legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u126	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u127	...there are no new measures. This problem is very serious and, I believe, we must discuss it now with all citizens and citizens. This is a question that has to do with practical application...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u128	And the lack of synthesis power!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u129	... of human rights, because it is human rights we are dealing with here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor, which I hope will be more synthetic than Mr Luís Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u131	Mr President, the Members of the parties of the majority, the PSD and the CDS came here to draw a reality that does not exist, because in fact the concrete problems that you feel in schools deny your words. For example, the Tomaz Pelayo School Group in Santo Tirso had this year more students with special needs and had fewer teachers. In addition, the CFP asked the Government in October last year and the Ministry of Education has not yet been able to answer. We heard in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture parents say that their children do not have special education teachers and therefore the words that Members of Parliament bring here do not, at all, correspond to the reality they feel in schools. How can Members say that they are actually defending a public school and an inclusive school when they are attacking the rights of these children? When, for example, is CRIS support often 20 minutes a week? Or when there are classes that have 2, 3, 4 or 5 children with special needs? Or when there aren't even Braille manuals for the children they need? with regard to Decree-Law No 3 / 2008, we fully understand the position of the PS, which was in fact the party that created it as a government. This is a decree created seven years ago, which excludes thousands of children and young people from the support they need, but by the way, PS, PSD and CDS are well associated with this about the fundamental rights of these children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u132	Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, steps back have been taken with these policies which the PSD/CDS government has implemented and which attack the fundamental rights of children. If there is so much concern about the rights of these children and young people, then they turn from words to practice and approve the proposal of the CFP in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, we will move to the next item on our agenda, which is to examine the Ombudsman's report. For an intervention, Mr. João Lobo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u134	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. and Mr. Members : Today we appreciate the Ombudsman's Annual Activity Report on the year 2014. The report, composed of 200 pages, is still composed of two extensive annexes: one which reflects the activity of the Provider, as a national preventive mechanism, included in his independent national function of monitoring the application of treaties and international human rights conventions, of 44 pages; and another annex, which has the heading ‘Takes of Position’, consisting of 288 pages, which basically documents the many different areas and dimensions in which the activity of the Ombudsman is entered. That is where the complaints, the texts of the recommendations, the guidelines, the suggestions, the requests for constitutionality supervision regarding the year 2014 ( four) and their vicissitudes (two already decided and two still to know the decision) and the positions adopted within the scope of their competences and assignments are evidenced. The report and its annexes reflect the extensive, diligent and accurate work carried out in the defence of fundamental rights in the face of the operation of public authorities, max, through the supervision of the material administrative activity in its multidimensional substantiveity. The demanding and vast activity of the Provider, which is constituted in the foundation of demonstration or discourse on the "health" of the political community, is exercised at a time when States have lost substantial part of the capacities that integrated their former sovereignty and the regulatory and operational forms which are so often inadequate to the pre-emptive and complex demands of reality. This relative loss of control of forms, of ruptures and their consequences is reported by Mr. Provider in the preambular message, when he said that « Among the typical territories of the powers of the State there is an increasing gap, spaces where the specific difficulties of the citizens reach the dimension of the real and for which the State, while by the aggregater of the community, has to find a response in its institutional framework ». White areas of law, law, justice, control of political power, certainly require new normative instruments, changes in behaviour, taking on new commitments, new responsibilities focused on the intransigent defence of citizens' rights. The documents appreciated show to the satiety devotion—if I am allowed to express—the Provider in various ways, of which respect for democratic institutions and rules is evident the fight against change of behavior, by action or omission, generated injustice in the person of those who cause the existence of the State, of our action and reason of being. It is this decisive contribution to the defense and increase of the fundamental goods of the community the strengthening of belonging, of institutional trust, but also the differential diagnosis of spaces where new strategies and measures of political and legislative action should affect that their remarkable work shows and increases. To highlight its actions in the context of public and private activities subject to its action; the volume of work carried out; the readiness and effectiveness of its performance; its difficulty and complexity; the specific rate of resolution of conflicts — it is noted that its readiness is 26 % of the procedures settled in the first month, 56 % in the first three months and 76 % in the six months from the record of the complaint; changes in the areas of incidence of the complaints and also the valuable doctrine left to the community in general and to the practice of the law in particular. It is all this copious volume of work and social peace, at a time marked by overlap and difficult compatibility of legitimate orders, dominated by the urgency of the moment, by the powers in fact that nullify justice, equity, experience and the realization of fundamental rights, which exuberantly highlight the report. And from there also, in an independent, independent and autonomous way, the incessant need to prevent and repair injustices that, in the public space, has been committed to the Ombudsman, and accomplished by him in the highest station. The report shows, by the high number of cases resolved to prevent and eliminate illegalities, in the fair composition of the interests in comparison, the high degree of ethical impairment in which the functions have been carried out, in the determination and ambition in the setting of the objectives, in the speed of the procedures used, the noble projection of the aspects that give shape to the Portuguese State and its functions. A final note: the homologous and progressive universalist dimension, prestigious and prestigious, considered in the international aspect of the activity developed in the plane of fundamental rights, in the various figures and concrete reflections on the lives of people and institutions. The remarkable activity evidenced in the documents under review and the new national and international horizons that demand their presence and activity, demand from the State another look and another and more intense consideration of the Ombudsman's figure: in the affected means, within the statutory framework, in the provision of the personal and material substrate necessary for their training, in the realization of their designs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u135	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u136	I conclude now, Mr President. The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the report, recognises, to the highest degree, the work done, the common goods defended and increased, and praises, for its merits, the Ombudsman and the servants of the accompanying State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u137	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, I greet Mr. Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for the excellent Report on his 2014 activity. I also greet Mr João Lobo for his exemption and for the quality of the report he presented to us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. In fact, the report presents us with a dimension of the life of the citizen and, using the words of Mr. Ombudsman, his action guarantees not only the recognition of fundamental rights but above all his vivification in the everyday life of all and of each of his fellow citizens. It is for the guarantee of the exercise of citizens' rights that demand the intervention of the Ombudsman in all dimensions of his relationship with the State, from social security to health, taxes, transport, teaching, housing, finally all those dimensions in which the State fulfils, in the exercise of its sovereignty, guarantee the safety of its citizens — security in the broad sense, of course. It is here that Mr Provedor's intervention is called to ensure the exercise of this right and equity in the provision of administration services. It is noted that in 2014 the number of cases opened by the Ombudsman represented a 50 % increase compared to the average of the last decade. In fact, it is an inexhaustible work with the capacity to respond which has already been presented here by Mr João Lobo. In the area of justice, the report also reveals the conflict that has also been increasing in this area, particularly in the last year, by the action of problems found on the Citius platform. The report, this year, also brings the activity of the Ombudsman as a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. Its activity is, above all, included in the inspection and monitoring of detention areas, having already been visited and given police stations, prisons, educational protection centres, psychiatric hospitals, finally, where human nature is most fragile and where it is imposed on the State that also assumes its ethical and social ethic that it fulfils. in this measure, we once again welcome the Report of the Ombudsman and we call upon this House to be able to approve in this legislature the bill to which the Socialist Party has entered this week, in order to strengthen the number of specialists working in the Ombudsman's Office, so that the function of the Ombudsman, as a national prevention mechanism, can be effectively fulfilled. It is not possible to assign more functions or missions to the Ombudsman and to the Ombudsman if they are not accompanied by their means. in this sense, there is here the call of the Socialist Party for all banks to be able to follow up this strengthening of means so that, next year, we can once again have a report of this quality, which means, above all, by referring to this quality, that the rights of our citizens are being fulfilled or that someone is looking at their compliance and ensuring that justice is due to them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u139	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin precisely with what was the final part of previous interventions, namely the final part of Mr. João Lobo's intervention and, to some extent, also by Mrs. Isabel Oneto, stressing the relevance, importance, care and effort that this report represents. I think that is the fundamental fact, and that is the fact that we must emphasise. In fact, this is a Report that results in a careful activity, a devoid activity, an activity that deserves our consideration and therefore deserves a word of appreciation and a positive word. Looking at the report itself and the concerns it contains, as is normal and natural, we find that the questions of justice, in the broad sense, occupy a large majority of the complaints, such as the matter which Mr. Ombudsman occupied, and that these issues are often of a financial nature, which is somehow inseparable and cannot be separated from the difficulties that the country has experienced, in particular from the financial crisis itself. There are several issues related to the wage situation, particularly for civil service workers, and with pensions, the main public entities representing complaints from the unions, and all this is inseparable from the reality that we have experienced. On the other hand, there are many issues related to the changes that have been made in the justice system itself, particularly with the reforms that have been made, with the changes that have been introduced and which have obviously generated doubts and concerns. Another area which is relevant, which is important and that this report also contains, has to do with matters relating to internal security itself, noting that Mr Provedor's action has focused not only on complaints of the operation of the security forces, especially the police forces, where this role is relevant and works as a safeguard mechanism, together with other existing mechanisms for guaranteeing fundamental rights and citizens' rights, but also, at the same time, in some cases complaints about the omission of expected, desired and obviously necessary action by the citizens themselves. As the Report itself emphasises and Mr. Ombudsman also, our Ombudsman's function is based on the traditional model of the ombudsman is not limited to this model, and it also has capabilities and a function until generally preventive that goes beyond the traditional model. This is relevant to us, however, to what I have said — and well — to Mrs Isabel Oneto, on the question of the means herself, because it is not possible to have this responsibility without means and the capacity of this same action, particularly in what is referred to in the preventive function, and I think that this preventive function is particularly relevant and significant if thought in terms of those citizens who have more difficulty or, in some cases, those citizens who, because of their own circumstances and circumstances, do not have the same active voice as other citizens have. I am thinking, in the context of the report itself, of the complaints submitted, and analyzed, regardless of whether or not the citizens who are arrested and who are faced with the difficulties that we know. Therefore, this is a real situation, a real concern, is a concern that must be of all concern to Parliament and to the President of the Assembly of the Republic as well as to 1. the Commission has been paying attention to these same matters, so this focus role, this preventive role, is an extremely important role. There has been an important action on the part of Mr Provedor, which we praise, respect, greet, and greet, leaving here a word of appreciation and a positive word on this very report. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u141	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin with a reference to the report on the Ombudsman's report, which was presented here by Mr João Lobo, who spoke by the PSD but was the rapporteur of this report in 1. I would therefore like to congratulate the Commission. We have already had violent disagreements, and we will continue to have, but I think it is fair to say that Mr. João Lobo, who has served on 1. the Commission and from there that knows the work it has done, has assumed and called upon you, with great commitment, parliamentary solutions of those who are not mediated. We have a more exposed parliamentary activity here and we have one that is not, and I would like to witness the enormous commitment and quality that Mr. João Lobo has put in the way he exercises his mandate in 1. the Commission. [[General applause.]] This report which has already been praised here mirrors this and I would like to make this reference, because we are on a balance sheet. We will have other opportunities to disagree on very relevant issues. As regards the Ombudsman's report, I would also like to stress its enormous importance and its enormous quality. It is a report that, in addition to very well presented, which is not just a matter of matter, has a very rich content and is a fundamental instrument for understanding the functioning of our Public Administration in its relationship with citizens, which is an indispensable dimension. The Public Administration exists essentially for this, there is not to make life difficult for citizens, there is to make life easier for them. This can never be forgotten and the fact that the Ombudsman's report is so detailed in relation to the list of issues raised by the Provedoria, the treatment given to them and the response that is obtained is essential so that this portrait can be done and that the activity of the Public Administration can be improved, and of course there is a political will to do so. This report also reflects the enormous credibility that the Ombudsman raises with the citizens. The fact that there are so many thousands of citizens who submit their complaints to the Ombudsman — a framework that is basically stabilized in the past year, although it has increased significantly since 2011, which obviously has to do with the social situation that has been created to the Portuguese people and which has been reflected in the increase in complaints about the functioning of the Public Administration and even with regard to legislative measures that citizens rightly consider to be detrimental to their rights and therefore resort to the Ombudsman — means that citizens recognise that it is worth submitting complaints to the Ombudsman, because this institution is an institution that is attentive to citizens' complaints and gives them the right treatment. Therefore, citizens are not left without a reply when they turn to the Ombudsman. And in fact, we have here a picture of the public administration's relationship with citizens, when we see the government areas that are the subject of more complaints from citizens and that the Ombudsman's Report highlights: social security, public employment, taxation and the administration of justice. We have four areas in which citizens have, in fact, a great deal of cause for complaint and have made their reasons known to the Ombudsman. In addition, this report is very well-systemized, the subjects are very well-suited, we have the chapter on environmental, urban and cultural rights, the part on economic agents, including workers' rights here. And here, of course, the Ombudsman's area of intervention is mainly aimed at public employment relations and not so much at relations in the area of labour law, as regards private employers, but, even in this area of public employment, there are, in fact, many reasons to complain to the Provider, on the part of the workers. We then have the part relating to taxpayers' complaints, consumers' complaints, and special attention is also given to social rights, to the satisfaction of social rights, particularly in the areas of health, education, justice and security. in this area of justice and security, it is fair to highlight the attention that the Ombudsman has given to the prison system. The former Ombudsman, Dr. Menéres Pimentel, was a pioneer in this matter, doing a very detailed study on the prison system, but has been followed in a very dignified way by the following providers and also by the current Provider, Prof. Dr. José de Faria Costa, in fact, deep knowledge of criminal matters and criminal prosecution, who has given great attention to the prison system, as it is fair that it has been given. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to refer to the Ombudsman's activity in relation to requests for constitutional supervision. The Ombudsman, giving indeed a sign of his independence in the exercise of office, has been calling on the Constitutional Court to monitor the constitutionality of legislative diplomas of fundamental importance and it must be said that, as a result of this performance of the Ombudsman, there has been a cause for citizens in relation to the supervision of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u143	Please finish, Member of the House, since I have already told the time of the fair praise to Mr. João Lobo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u144	Mr President, that is an incentive for you to be able to praise more colleagues, when appropriate. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u145	If it is for that purpose, please continue. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u146	I am grateful, of course, for the tolerance, Mr President, but my speech is complete. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u147	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As an input, I would also like to support Mr João Lobo as rapporteur on 1st. the Commission, by objectivity, by clarity, by analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u149	You've seen that this takes for the time off... [[Laughing.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u150	in the same way, I would like to stress, like all previous speakers, the quality of Mr. Ombudsman's report, not only by the various areas where he concerned the Ombudsman, by the quality of the actions, by the expansion of his institutional prestige among citizens and citizens, which gives him, in his singular status, that comes from the outset of our Constitution, the factor of being a very, very important weapon of citizenship, and increasingly that weapon of citizenship is shared by many of our fellow citizens and citizens. I am not going to repeat things that have already been said here by previous speakers about several areas in which the report concerns, and it has a lot of objectivity and also with conclusions and lessons learned not only about social changes, the cause of complaints and the corrective or non-corrective role of the Public Administration, but I want to emphasize one aspect which has also been mentioned here, a much more intensive recourse to the supervision of constitutionality, in particular with regard to State budgets and other measures which are more or less related to budgetary policy by the Government. They either burned the ladies or not. Members of the majority, this is a novelty and it is a novelty that has come to structure and that is increasingly consistent. Of course, we are not going to be foolish to say that the Ombudsman has been with the opposition, but it is true that the opposition will collect some of the legitimacy there for requests to monitor constitutionality, which he also exercised, because it seemed to him clearly that the majority and his government were violating the Basic Law. This, for us, is a very important element, which is characteristic of the independence of the body, the attitude of the Ombudsman, the services of the Provedoria, which I believe is no less strengthening and we are open to all the necessary measures, because, at a time when there is a crisis in the institutions and the political crisis, due to the lack of filling up the democratic deficits, due to lack of respect for citizens and citizens and what they understand, and well, that is the purpose of the State, there is a good example, that of the Ombudsman, who needs to be pushed and embraced as a weapon of citizenship. It is up to Parliament to have this attitude, this role, exactly when there is a day-to-day supervisory body, day-to-day, in the field of Public Administration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this item on our agenda, so we will proceed to the joint assessment of petition No 485 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Mónica Elisabete de Ascension Nunes de Andrade et al., requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August 2014 which promotes the protection of animals, and draft Law No 1024 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for penalties for crimes against pets ( PS ), in general. To present the bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative we are discussing today, which arises in the context of a petition presented to this House also following the legislation adopted last year and which entered into force in October 2014, comes to the bottom of this note of some of the first difficulties experienced by the application of the new legal regime. If it is true that it has been and is a relevant framework in the history of animal law in Portugal, since it represents the first consecration of criminal sanctions in this area, going to the meeting of a wish that was already present in the law for almost two decades without realisation, it is also true that the first years of implementation and application of the diploma have shown that there are some complementary aspects in which a relatively recent overall review of a diploma would be justified, which still has to be matured by case law and by the applicators, but at least on some complementary and equally essential issues for its application and that they translate into those three issues which are brought here by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, respecting, from the outset, the need for a complementary framework to the criminal sanctions framework that exists in the counter-order plan and which, due to the rise of sanctions, has ceased to exist for these behaviours. Secondly, it is necessary to provide for precautionary measures to enable, in the identification of suspicions of the practice of crimes against pet animals envisaged and punished in the Criminal Code, to develop mechanisms by the authorities so that they can carefully safeguard the situations reported and detected. Finally, there is a need for some updates to legislation already aimed at the detention of certain species of animals, including the list of crimes that are inhibitors of the possession of licences for the detention of such animals, adding crimes committed against pets and, in fact, allowing greater coherence of the system. This is not therefore a comprehensive review of the law, which, as I say, will obviously have to be mature, weighted, in view of the indicators, in view of what the RASI next year can tell us about this, but at least take a few steps already identified as particularly important to improve the quality of the application of this law. I stress once again the greeting to the petitioners for their efforts, commitment and the issue they bring to Parliament, and, with this little legislative amendment, we hope to be able to meet their concerns and their civic mobilization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u153	Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Compliance with them and, of course, also the signatories of the petition, which, as has been said in due course, is the subject of, among other aspects, the request for ancillary penalties to be established which improve the legal-criminal regime which has been approved in this Chamber and which corresponds to Law No 69 / 2014. in this field, we have made a historic course, from the outset, because we have been able to enshrine in the Criminal Code the law on criminalization of ill-treatment and abandonment of pets and, now, we have to deal with the issue of accessory sanctions, seeking to improve, correct, evaluate the regime, so that it is more effective, responds better, be more able to translate an ethical feeling and a social requirement, which is absolutely crucial to ensure the improvement of that regime. from our point of view, we are open to blocking this discussion, because this discussion results from a set of petitions that have been submitted to the Assembly of the Republic and also because it is appropriate to assess to what extent there are gaps and aspects that have not been properly addressed by the legislator and which may deserve to be further improved by the legislator, in detail, in order to ensure that the regime gives a better answer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u155	From this point of view, we want to point out two aspects which we understand to be nevelgic, the first of which is related to the ancillary sanctions. In fact, ancillary sanctions can ensure an improvement of the regime we have before us. We have the main sanctions, but ancillary sanctions can, in fact, give more correspondence, more virtuality, ensure that the regime is objectively more capable. A second aspect, according to what is also raised by the draft law submitted by the Socialist Party, is to deepen the issue of precautionary measures, the image of what has already occurred in Decree-Law No. 276/2001 for counter-ordinations, by issuing a judicial mandate, in order to ensure that the adoption of precautionary mechanisms is guaranteed to safeguard these aspects. in a global way, we are willing to deal with this matter in the specialty, which is why we will not make the project that is submitted to our appreciation by the Socialist Party. We have objectively different solutions, but we will carry out these solutions for the specialty, seeking, with criteria, to improve the set of solutions that are proposed here and also to give a prompt and fair response to the set of petitions that have been submitted to the evaluation of this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u156	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the CDS, I leave a greeting to the petitioners of petition No 485 / XII ( 4. ( a ) concerning a specific case but related to the issue of ill-treatment of animals. The petition that is presented to us today for discussion has three main objectives: to alert to the issue of ill-treatment of animals and the possibility of the application of ancillary penalties, in the case of the existence of the crime of evil-treatment of animals; the second has to do with the question of punishment in a specific case; and the third is still concerned with the issue of license of use, possession and carrying firearms. One of them obviously does not have to do with Parliament's powers — in fact, that is said in the petition report — it has to do with the practical application of a penalty to the practice of a crime, but this is a prerogative of the judiciary rather than of the legislative or supervisory power of the Assembly of the Republic. The report on this subject is therefore well referred to. On the third issue, the use and carrying of weapons, I would say that, at the moment, the possibility of obtaining permission to use and carry firearms has been changed, very recently, with regard to both training courses provided by the PSP, or the way in which the licence can be obtained. There is a significant evolution here and, therefore, it seems to me that there has been something here as well. The most pressing issue, and which seems to be the most motivating of the petition itself, has to do with the sanctions for crimes against pets. In this regard, we also have the Socialist Party bill, which the CDS does not see great difficulty in accompanying, in general, much of what is said in it. However, there is one question I would like to raise about this project, because it is a situation which is from the outset envisaged in legislation for other situations, which raises some question about its operationality here. I know that later, in the specialty, we can do its framework, but I am referring to Article 2. paragraph 1 ( a), i.e. the loss in favour of the State of objects and animals belonging to the agent. It is that, as is known, in general of the country, the State, practically, is not a holder of any canil, catil or space that can collect animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u158	It's not, but it has to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u159	Those who hold these spaces are the municipal chambers, which effectively have a competence and an allocation, as regards the erring animals, of collecting these animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u160	Sure, sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u161	... and then, in accordance with the legislation, their custody, their surrender or, in extreme cases, their elimination. But the situation that is expected, in the present case, is not the competence of the chambers and therefore there is also a question of money for the intended effect, on the part of the State, as well as how the network will be created. So that is the only question that basically appears to us to be debateable, and we could do so, as a specialist, to find out what direction we should take. But on the part of the CDS, we will not make the bill presented by the Socialist Party invalid. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u162	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would obviously like to begin by welcoming the act of citizenship to bring this debate to the Assembly of the Republic, and therefore I would like to congratulate all those who have participated in this petition and who have given it density and body so that we can now be debating it. This petition came from a specific case and we have an obligation to realize that this particular case hides many others. It is the cruelty of humans to non-human animals, and often, as we realize, human beings can, for free, be very cruel to those who have not done any harm to them and should deserve respect, because non-human animals should deserve this respect from all of us. The petition has clear demands and, therefore, from our point of view, it is welcome the initiative of the Socialist Party, which we will be available to discuss constructively in the specialty. We are aware of the need for the creation of ancillary sanctions and how they can be contemplated; we believe that the debate, as it is already being done here in plenary, can be fruitful, can lead to a good end, and we also welcome the opening of the majority in this regard. I believe that there are problems that we must now withdraw from the table. Someone who has a propensity to harm animals cannot, himself, have animals in charge of them. I believe that this is obvious to each and every one of us, since the animals in their charge cannot be safeguarded from those who do not respect any other animal. I consider this to be essential. How will we solve this problem? Is it through, for example, collection in canes or municipal cats? I believe that this is a step that can be taken and that the law can provide for it, of course, as an opening by the State to finance and help municipal canes, knowing that they should also deserve attention and changes to their functioning which we have already discussed here last week and whose special work we still have to do. Therefore, I believe that joining these two processes is advised, because we will value respect for animal rights, we will value the assurance that animals will not be responsible for those who are prone to harm them, we will ensure that those who harm animals are effectively called upon to their responsibilities in this area and we will ensure a solution for animals who safeguard their rights. We therefore open up and are in a position to take these steps. Finally, Mr President, in the few seconds that I have left, I think it is worth saying, because it is serious that we do so, that this Parliament has taken concrete and positive steps towards respect for animal rights and how legislation looks at animals in our country. I believe that this final point in the legislature can be given well with the diplomas that, like this one, are now being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and that, in good time, they can lead their debate to the end, in this legislative session, with law already beginning in the next few months. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet all the subscribers of this petition No 485 / XII, which we are discussing today in the Assembly of the Republic, which is a petition which will require the Assembly of the Republic to take more action to defend animal rights. I would also like to highlight here the fact that I believe that, in this Parliament, a number of debates have been held on this subject, which are driven from outside but are also driven within, by the will of the parliamentary groups, and important steps have been taken at the level of legislation, in particular with the approval of Law No 79 / 2014. I also recall that, last week, we adopted here a draft resolution by The Greens that seeks, once again, to take a step towards a new paradigm of a look at the animal, in this concrete case with regard to the control of the animal population, putting aside the paradigm of slaughter and pushing the paradigm of sterilization. I therefore believe that it is true that in this Parliament there seems to have been no insensitivity on the matter of defending animal rights. But the petitioners have come to see one thing: after this phase of operation of Law No. 79 / 2014, it happens that many animals continue to be victims of ill-treatment and there is impunity for the aggressors that continues to manifest. So ask the petitioners for a review of the law, so that this reality can be changed. The PS has submitted a bill on penalties for crimes against pet animals and I believe it is well deserved that this bill is, in fact, discussed in the specialty by all parliamentary groups. I just want to warn one thing here: often these realities do not change by decree, that is, we can always contribute to an improvement of the law, so as to meet the goal we want. But notice that the law ends, then, by having a limit on changing the mentality and paradigms that are rooted in society. Working therefore to raise the awareness of society, both of the competent authorities and of the citizens in particular, is extremely relevant. That is to say, let us not rest with legislative amendments and let us all work to ensure that this awareness is generalized throughout society. Certainly, it is not one day for the other, but all the steps are necessary. And this is where I think this petition also has a great merit: it is that it brings back the debate and gives once again visibility to the issue, which is extremely important. All the actions that are being pursued here, like all the actions that are going on outside, and surely the collection of these more than 16 000 signatures has also been an extraordinary contribution to raising citizens' awareness...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u166	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u167	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that I believe that these steps cannot be stopped and that we all have a responsibility in this matter. [[Congrats from PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u168	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and foremost on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, we welcome the very significant number of petitioners who bring this debate to the Assembly of the Republic, as well as the Socialist Party, which makes accompanying this petition of a bill. from the PCP, as we have also been saying from the very first moment about the law that is currently in force and that creates a criminal regime for animal abuse, we understand that priority should be given to prevention, education and sensitization, not only to rest because we can punish those who abuse a non-human animal but, above all, to create the conditions for such ill-treatment not to happen. Finally, one thing does not exclude the other, one objective does not exclude the other, of course, but we have not yet taken the first step, which is that of sensitization, education, prevention, and even that of strengthening supervision, and we started building the house on the roof, with the answers of the last line. This is the situation we are facing right now. The CFP was not in favour of this option, at the time, like the honourable Members. Members will remember, but that does not mean that it is not considered that the current regime can in fact be improved. As regards the incidental sanctions which are now proposed in the context of the discussion of this petition by the CFP not so much because of their content but because they are added and cumulative with the penalties already provided for, they do not deserve a total agreement. But on the side of the CFP, it will certainly be possible to resolve in a process of discussion in the specialty, even to create the possibility of these penalties may also have a substitute character of the other penalties, when the degree of guilt thus justifies it. These are contributions that it is important that the CFP can also present, in the specialty, and we are, of course, available to do so. with regard to the issues that have already been raised and which are related to the PS bill, in particular those relating to official collection centres, they only reinforce the need to move forward with the legislative process which is currently in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea for the establishment of a mechanism for the modernisation of the official animal collection centres in the authorities. With this, we can also respond not only to the concerns relating to slaughter, but also to the concerns concerning housing and packaging of animals in conditions of dignity and well-being, which may result from the State's apprehension in two of the articles of this bill, not only in that which has already been mentioned, in particular as regards the loss of the animal to the State, but also with regard to the PS proposal for preventive seizure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u170	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u171	from the PCP, these doubts can certainly be resolved in the specialty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u172	In any case, we greet the petitioners and reaffirm the CFP's commitment to these concerns which are increasingly expressed by the general public with the well-being of non-human animals and by a dignified and human treatment of these animals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u173	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to conclude by welcoming all parliamentary groups and thanking the commitment that, in the specialty, effectively, we can do a complementary work on this matter. He would only note two aspects, one of them being, following Mr. Abel Batista's intervention, the following : indeed, we left out of our initiative the matter relating to the arrest of weapons. And we have done so since, in fact, the legal regime of arms and their ammunition has already determined the non-qualification for the possession of weapons in the event of condemnation in a series of illegals, and these, in particular, easily fall within the scope of it, so there was no need for change. As regards the issues, also correctly raised, of the need to define what is the loss to the State and, eventually, to work on this concept, explaining that the responsibilities in this matter are of the authorities and not of the State, central administration, and that therefore can be improved the norm, for that we have all the openness. But we would not fail to note that either in the case of ancillary sanctions, or in the case of precautionary measures, are realities that have already been translated into the law for counter-ordinations in animal matters, but, curiously, they have ceased to have, because of the unpredictable side effect of the approval of the law, which criminalized, since the conducts have ceased to be counter-ordination and became a crime, soon sanctioned by another diploma. Therefore, basically, we would only be restoring a reality that was in force when this matter was only sanctioned counter-orderly and which, by virtue of this qualifying amendment, is no longer being. Many of the doubts could have been raised in the past, not giving rise to such difficulties, despite the relevance of all the questions raised. I hope the process can reach a good port. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u175	Mrs. Members, we have moved to the last item on our agenda today, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 503 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by the URAP-Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistant —, requesting the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic for the realization of the " Tribute to the martyrs of the 20th century " at the place where the headquarters of the PIDE, in the Port, and of the draft resolutions Nos 1015 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, by maintaining the Port Military Museum, identify the routes and rooms used by the PIDE and promote the fair homage to whom it has passed through the « Herodism building » and there resisted fascism ( PCP ) and 1561 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the memory of political persecution in the Port Military Museum ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I greet the Union of Anti-Fascists Resistants in the delegation that is attending the session for the dynamization of this petition and for the work it has developed for the realization of a just project of tribute and tribute to the thousands of anti-fascists who have passed through the « Herodism building »,... [[PCP and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz applauded.]] ... in the port, and that, in the hands of the PIDE and the rule of the fascist regime, they were arrested, tortured and even murdered. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After 25 April 1974 and the conquest of freedom, the « building of Heroism » ceases to be a stage of torture, goes to the protection of the army, and then the Port Military Museum was installed there, having been made, in the 1980s, a set of efforts for the classification of the building as of public interest, preventing its destruction and discharacterization. What is claimed in this petition, what the URAP has been fighting for for many years, and what the PCP proposes in this project is that this building be a space of memory and recall of the struggle of anti-fascist resistance, identifying the paths and rooms used by PIDE and exposing documents related to political prisoners and resistance to fascism. This is a museum project, ready to implement and perfectly compatible with the existence and continuity of the Military Museum and its mission, complementing it, even, and can contribute to its greatest dynamization. This is the obligation of a country that cannot forget the atrocities committed by the fascist regime and it is the fair tribute to whom it passed through the "heroism building" and there courageously resisted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u177	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by greeting the Union of Anti-Fascists Resistances and saying that preserving memory is to pay tribute to the past, but it is not just to look back. The inscription of memory in the present is what enables us to escape the idea that the past would be a smooth thing, without disputes or social struggles and that the future could only be a monotonous and permanent repetition of the present. The annihilation and manipulation of memory, particularly the dictatorship, is done by the silence of the past, in omission spirals that make the common sense amputated in some part of history; it is done by historical revisionism, which makes history a version told by today's winners; and it is done by organized forgetfulness processes, based on indifference, trivialization of dictatorship or the excusability of the past. I am talking about this about the property where the Military Museum is installed — on the street of Heroism, No. 345, Porto — because since 1934 it was also installed there the headquarters of the PIDE-DGS and it was there that 7600 citizens suffered arbitrary arrests, sleep torture, physical and psychological torture and it was also there that Joaquim Lemos de Oliveira and Manuel da Silva Junior were murdered. The Left Block has been struck by the classification of the public interest of this property, including having it approved in 2007 in the Municipal Assembly of Porto a resolution to that end. for the history recorded in this property, it is evident that it is of public interest not only to have the classified property, but also to insert in the Military Museum of Porto an exhibition course that identifies what were the activities of the dictatorship, the PIDE, and that preserves the memory of the struggle and antifascist resistance that took place there. This project had already obtained initial approval from the Museum and the Tower of Tombo but was later plunged by the Museum itself. Mrs. Members, the preservation of this property will always be incomplete if we do not make it associated with the existence of this journey and this tribute to resistance. That is what the petition proposes and what the draft resolutions are proposing today. If we didn't, we'd be complicit in an era of memory deletion, and that, of course, we don't want to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u179	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistants, who took the initiative of this citizen petition and all those who associated with it, subscribing to it. Its current status, relevance and social justification are evident. A palace of arbitrary arrests, sleep tortures, physical and psychological, inflicted by the PIDE to about 7600 citizens, assuming as a center of surveillance and repression at the service of the dictatorial forces, was installed in the building of the Rue do Heroísmo in 1977, after partial demolition of its facilities, the new facilities of the Port Military Museum. The anti-fascists and democrats have long claimed the classification of this building as a memory of resistance and anti-fascist struggle. The Civil Government of Porto, in 2004, placed a plaque outside it with the inscription « Homage of the people of Porto to the Democrats and anti-fascists who were humiliated and tortured in this building by PIDE-DGS ». The Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists has affirmed and maintained the intention and desire to use the spaces of the Port Military Museum for both temporary thematic exhibitions and other initiatives on anti-Fascist struggle, as well as to establish a path of political prison memories. To this end, he presented a project of the architect Mário Mesquita to recover memory and safeguard heritage, through exhibitions and pathways along the rooms, corridors, stairs and cells and, on the other hand, organizing documentary sources of life from day to day of political prisoners. Named after « From Heroism to Signature — Path in memory of the house of the PIDE — 1934 - 1974 », this project was clear in the concern of compatibility with the Port Military Museum, not implying any cost for this institution, providing for the establishment of partnerships and obtaining immediate accession from the Directorate-General of the Archives ( Torre do Tombo). Although a number of inquiries had been initiated, particularly involving military leaders, in the sense that the project could be effectively developed and there had been signs that the project could be authorized, the fact is that it was not yet possible to achieve this ambition. In conclusion, Mr President, with this petition, the URAP has expressed its concern that it has not been achieved, especially because it is about preserving the history and memory of so many women and of so many men who have suffered at the hands of the PIDE, transmitting them to the new generations. And because, as they say, it is a "duty to a democracy of truth", the Socialist Party can only accompany this concern, from the outset, because the project in question, containing a strong symbolic, civic, pedagogical and courageous resistance and denunciation, is required by the "Portuguese and national dignity" in "respect for so many martyrs of the freedom of the twentieth century". It is imperative that brothers and sisters in this historical tribute, accompanying the petitioners, “do not allow the ‘ Memories of the Prison ’ to be hidden. ” [[P.S. and P.P.P. Mr António Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u181	Mr Ricardo Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before starting this speech, I would like to welcome the petitioners for their dedication, but essentially because of the very important role of citizenship that these men and women in the URAP have had over the years, keeping this subject under discussion. This is not, by itself, an accessory theme about whether or not we can implement a reference place and a tribute to the martyrs of the 20th century. It is the recognition of a piece of history that we cannot forget, it is an important issue that hundreds of Porto's people feel in a special way, but it is not only a theme of the city of Porto, because tens of other people from all over the country have passed through, including people of national recognition. It is, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a matter of national interest, a question without owners and owners that deserved everyone's involvement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u184	We have made every effort to ensure that the matter is brought to a successful conclusion. We visited the place, we met with the chiefs, we listened to technical and we called the intervention of the people. We did all this in record time, since the petition entered the Assembly of the Republic on May 6. We sensitized the least involved and committed, and we did so because we could not allow this piece of history to be forgotten. To remember, this issue has been discussed since 1980 in Portuguese society and had not had any repercussions until now. But last night, we were able to collect new data and be satisfied with the outcome: we heard the voice of the Minister of National Defence who is developing a protocol and that the matter will be resolved by this government shortly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u186	It was a victory of all, that I greet and fill me with pride, especially because it makes juicy to the memories of the inhabitants of the port and those who have gone by, regardless of the will of some parties to polarize this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u187	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, I would like to greet the URAP — the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistance — which has stimulated the petition that we are now discussing and, in particular, the members of the URAP who are watching our work and who, also in a demonstration of resistance, have endured all afternoon to be present in this debate. From the beginning of the 30th century until the 25th April 1974, they passed through the « Herodism building », about 7600 people: 7600 citizens, Democrats or anti-fascists, who were arrested, interrogated, subjected to various humiliations and tortures, some leading to death. The building, where the Port Military Museum is now located, is therefore an emblematic place of anti-fascist struggle, being part of the heritage and memory of resistance, this memory that can never be forgotten and to whom the country owes a fair tribute. All those who resisted are heroes and the place where they all passed must be a meeting point for all the stories that constitute, after all, our history as a Country. It was in this sense that in the 1980s, several efforts were made to classify the building as of public interest, in order to avoid its possible alienation, destruction or decharacterization. in recent years in particular, the core of the URAP Port took on a persistent defense of the building as a meeting place of national memory, presenting in 2009 a project compatible with the Military Museum for the safeguarding of heritage. However, in 2013 URAP was confronted with an office of the Minister of Defence, according to which « no such event is appropriate in military installations ». Now, this government stance is no longer strange because this project has nothing to do with the Port Military Museum, nor with its permanent exposure. What 'The Greens' want to make clear is that memory cannot be hidden and much less forgotten. A democracy must remember and bear in mind its past and, above all, must remember all those who have fought for it. in this sense 'The Greens', together with the concerns expressed in this petition by the subscribers, will also enable all proposals that wish to meet the objectives of this petition. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u189	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 4275 petitioners, here well represented by the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists, who also comply with their patience, for I note that it is already about 6 hours in the afternoon and I know that they have come from far to attend this discussion. I refer to the interest that the Assembly of the Republic has shown that it has been able to quickly find the agenda to discuss and approve this important matter, highlighting the work of the Members. Members of the National Defence Commission, in particular Mr Ricardo Santos and Mrs Rosa Albernaz, who, together with other Members, moved to the Port to meet directly with the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistances on this same issue and presented a report with suggestions that approached both sides. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the initial proposal was one that neither the Army nor the Ministry of Defence wanted to accept, but now, after approximations, there is already an agreement which I would like to highlight here, which is important and which was announced yesterday by the Minister of National Defence. You already have the Army agreement, but it is not yet fully finalised because it also involves the Secretary of State of Culture. We can say that, in the concrete case of this petition, and by the will of the petitioners, a result will finally be achieved. This is positive and must be said here. Here is a case where the petitioners have obtained their claims. This agreement, which was announced yesterday publicly by the Minister of Defence, accommodates the will of all: of the Army and above all the memory of many Portuguese who went by and suffered the torture of the PIDE, many of them young at the time. I would like to point out that much younger people than I did in the 1960s, which should be highlighted here. It is a Portuguese youth who has suffered acts practiced by a political police officer and we cannot forget that. We cannot forget any kind of violence perpetrated by dictatorial regimes, whether they are of what nature they are, on the left or on the right. Violence practised by anti-democratic regimes must always be remembered, in all places, either here in Portugal or elsewhere in the world. I shall finish, Mr President, by stressing that this is a happy story because it has a happy ending. It's a petition that reaches the right port. I highlight the work done again. Congratulations, because you have been able to take this matter to good use. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u191	For a second, very synthetic intervention, given the time available, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by saying that it is expected from the speeches made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a positive outcome in relation to the proposals we have here today on the table. This is a positive outcome that is important for the proposals that are here and also for the fight that the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists has developed and that it deserves, in fact, a new greeting, because it is a struggle for many years, having defeated many obstacles along the way, for the implementation of a project to signal the rooms in which more than 7600 anti-Fascists were tortured and for the exposure of documents which relate all the atrocities of the fascist regime and which cannot be forgotten or bleached. The realization of this project is, in fact, the persistence of the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists, which has never given up and which has been able to overcome all the obstacles it has encountered along the way. The realization of this project is a fair tribute to all the anti-fascists, who bravely fought for freedom, the freedom which he consecrated on 25 April 1974. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-02.u193	We are at the end of today's agenda. I remember the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's session will begin at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. Perhaps you can continue from the afternoon at 2:30 p.m., but you will make an effort to finish the work even in the morning. During the session, we shall elect a judge to the Constitutional Court. The report of the X Parliamentary Commission for Inquiry into the Camarate Tragedy will be considered in conjunction with draft resolutions 1554 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open an investigation to clarify the disappearance of the EMGFA, MDN and MNE archives of the official correspondence between these bodies with reference to the export of war material to Iran ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) and 1555 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the documentary acquis of the Ultramar Military Defence Fund and the creation of the Camarate archive, digitized and made available online on the Parliament's website ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). Law No 333 / XII will then be discussed ( 4. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January approving the status of staff in charge of the services and bodies of the central, regional and local administration of the State, and the second amendment to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December amending the procedures for recruitment, selection and provision in the senior management positions of the Public Administration. We will also discuss Bill No 342 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, as approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and makes the first amendment to the Framework Law of the Foundations, as approved by Law No 24 / 2012 of 9 July. Follow-up on the discussion of Bill No 341 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 35 / 2012 of 23 August 2012 establishing the compensation fund for the universal electronic communications service provided for in the Electronic Communications Act for the financing of the net costs arising from the provision of the universal service. Law No 167 / XII will then be discussed ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum wage ( ALRAA ). Finally, together, the projects of lein.o 790 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Law on maternity and paternity support for the right to be born ( Citizens' Legislative Initiative) and 1021 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113/2011 of 29 November, by applying the payment of moderate rates at the termination of pregnancy, when performed by the woman's option during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy ( CDS-PP and PSD ). Resolutions 117 / XII ( 4 ) will also be voted on. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on Operational Unity of Oriented Electronic Governance for Policies of the University of the United Nations, in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014, and 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Establishment, Operation and Location of the Operational Unit of Oriented Electronic Governance for Policies of the University of the United Nations, in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014. There will also be speeches by Members under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, and the CL shall proceed to the statutory votes at the end of the debates. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
