ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-28.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, today's agenda consists of the election of Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and Vice-Presidents - - - - - Secretaries of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and also of the members of the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic for the XIII legislature. The election will be held-CL in room D. Maria, and the polls will be open until 16 hours. I also take this opportunity to congratulate the leadership of the various parliamentary groups that have been elected. [[Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop the session until 16 hours and 15 minutes.]] [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 17 hours and 1 minute.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first information I wish to give, which must be welcomed in an appropriate manner, is that all candidates have been elected in the first round, and there is no need to proceed with the repetition of any vote. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] I would therefore like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members who were elected Vice-Presidents, Secretaries, Vice-Presidents - - - - - Secretaries and members of the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic to the XIII legislature. Before giving the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the minutes of his polls, thanking the work that Mr. The secretaries have, I would like to say goodbye to Mrs Rosa Albernaz, who has served as Secretary of the Bureau for many years and will cease to exercise at this very moment. [[General applause.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the minutes relating to the election of Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic shall be as follows: « At the twenty-eight days of October of two thousand and fifteen, the election of the Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and Vice-Secretarys of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic for the XIII legislature was held and the following results were obtained: Voters — 226 Vice-Presidents José Manuel de Matos Correia Votes 'yes' — 173 White votes — 52 No votes — 1 Jorge Lacão Costa Votes 'yes' — 122 White votes — 103 No votes — 1 José Manuel Marques da Silva Pureza Votes 'yes' — 137 White votes — 88 No votes — 1 Teresa Margarida F. of Vasconcelos Caeiro Votes 'yes' — 172 White votes — 54 Secretaries Duarte Rogério Matos Ventura Pacheco Votes 'yes' — 188 White votes — 38 Idalia Maria Marques Salvador Serran Votes 'yes' — 134 White votes — 91 No votes — 1 Mois Salvador Roelho Ferreira Votes 'yes' — 124 White votes — 101 No votes — 1 Abel Lima Baptista Votes 'yes' — 170 White votes — 55 No votes — 1 Vice-Secretarys Pedro Filipe dos Santos Alves Votes 'yes' — 177 White votes — 48 No votes — 1 Luísa Maria Neves Salgueiro Votes 'yes' — 130 White votes — 95 No votes — 1 Emilia of Fatima Moreira dos Santos Votes 'yes' — 170 White votes — 55 No votes — 1 Diogo Feijóo León Campos Rodrigues Votes 'yes' — 124 White votes — 101 No votes — 1 according to the regulations, they were elected: for Vice-Presidents, Mr. Deputies José Manuel de Matos Correia, Jorge Lacão Costa, José Manuel Marques da Silva Pureza and Teresa Margarida F. Mr de Vasconcelos Caeiro ; to the Secretaries, Mr. Deputies Duarte Rogério Matos Ventura Pacheco, Idália Maria Marques Salvador Serran, Mois Salvador Coelho Ferreira and Abel Lima Baptista ; and, for Vice-Secretarys, the Srs. Deputies Pedro Filipe dos Santos Alves, Luísa Maria Neves Salgueiro. Emilia of Fatima Moreira dos Santos and Diogo Feijóo León Campos Rodrigues. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores : Duarte Pacheco — Rosa Maria Albernaz. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now proceed to the reading of the minutes concerning the election of members to the Management Board of the Assembly of the Republic for the 13th Parliament: « At the twenty-eight days of October of two thousand and fifteen, the members were elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, and the following results were obtained: Voters — 226 Proposed applicants — List A Actual: Pedro Augusto Cunha Pinto ( PSD ) Marks of the Cunha and Lorena Perestrello de Vasconcellos ( PS ) José Paulino Carvalho de Ascenção ( BE ) João Guilherme Noble Silver Fragous Rebel ( CDS-PP ) Bruno Ramos Dias ( PCP ) José Luís Teixeira Ferreira (The Greens) Alternates: Fernando Virgílio Cabral da Cruz Macedo ( PSD ) Vitalino José Ferreira Prova Canas ( PS ) Jorge Duarte Gonçalves da Costa (BE ) José Hélder do Amaral ( CDS-PP ) Paula Alexandra Sobral Guerreiro Santos Barbosa ( PCP ) Heloísa Augusta Baião de Brito Apolónia (The Greens). Votes 'yes' — 215 White votes — 9 Non-voting — 2 according to the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are declared elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores : Duarte Pacheco — Rosa Maria Albernaz. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-28.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before closing the sitting, I would like to inform you that on 4 November, Wednesday, there will be a meeting of the Conference of Leaders and that the next plenary sessions, which will take place from the debate of the Government's programme, if the Government makes its delivery by next Friday, will be held on the 9th afternoon and 10th day. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]]
