ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officials, the meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities may open the galleries of the Senate Chamber, please. As everyone knows this is the Permanent Commission of this summer, with a composition of Members reduced by the nature of the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. As you know, we have an agenda consisting of three points: firstly, the reading, which I shall make, of two messages from the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 369 / XII — Unjustified enrichment, and 426 / XII — Legal regime of the information system of the Portuguese Republic. Section 2 of the agenda consists of political declarations, each five-minute parliamentary group, and the order of interventions will be from the smallest party to the largest. The last item on our agenda will be votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to do the right thing to read the dossier and to enter agenda item 1, I would like to welcome everyone, after this little interruption of our work, and wish everyone a good return. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions 1585 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( President of the HR ) and 1586 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome ( President of the HR ) and Bill No 346 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the Children's Observatory ( ALRM ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u3	Mrs. Members, then, to read the first message of the President of the Republic on the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 369 / XII — Unjustified enrichment, which is of the following content: « Together I shall return your Excellency in accordance with Article 279. Article 1 ( 1 ), paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 369 / XII — Unjustified enrichment ( Thirty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, third amendment to Law No 93 / 99 of 14 July, twenty-fourth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, fifth amendment to Law No 36 / 94 of 29 September, sixth amendment to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January, third amendment to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August, fourth amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August, and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ), since the Constitutional Court, by means of a decision of which the photocopy is annexed, was pronounced, in the case of preventive supervision, by the unconstitutionality of the rules of Article 1 ( 1 ). Article 2. the same decree. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, I would like to read the second message from the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 426 / XII — Legal regime of the information system of the Portuguese Republic, which is of the following content: « Together I shall return your Excellency in accordance with Article 279. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 426 / XII — Legal regime of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( repeal of Laws Nos 30 / 84 of 5 September and 9 / 2007 of 19 February and Decrees-Laws Nos 225 / 85 of 4 July and 254 / 95 of 30 September ), since the Constitutional Court, by way of a judgment whose photocopy is annexed, was pronounced, in the case of preventive supervision, by the unconstitutionality of the rule of Article 78 (2). that of the same Decree. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have completed point 1 of our agenda, there is no objection, we have turned to the political statements which, as I indicated, will start with The Greens and end with the PSD. For a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Greens Ecological Party goes to the drama of refugees who seek to reach Europe. They are human beings, children, women and men, in search of survival, who do everything to escape war, hunger and death. No one can be indifferent, but more than not indifference, what is asked for is also pro-activity in the duty to welcome and integrate these human beings. We in Portugal know well what it is to leave the country in search of the future, we have an obligation to be quite welcoming, but it is also time that this drama that stems from the situation of countries such as Syria, Libya or Iraq, and others, awakens us to the hypocrisy of continuing to see the responsibility of NATO, the United States of America and the European Union in the strengthening of bellicism and in the business of arms and the Portuguese governments always to support. The Greens say that our responsibility is also due to cooperation and development support for those countries and for those peoples. Fighting causes is a decisive factor in finding solutions in the amount of the necessary humanitarian response. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the national situation, The Greens today bring to Parliament, this Standing Committee, the scandalous case of privatization of the transports of the port — STCP and Metro — which represents an unacceptable blow that the Government once again defers on the country in general and on the region of the port in particular. The privatisation of the transport sector has shown above all two consequences, of which we cannot, in any circumstances, avoid: first, it makes transport more expensive and thus less attractive to passengers; secondly, it often promotes investment or closure of the less profitable routes and lines. These consequences result from a typical management framework in the private sector, focusing on the interest in obtaining profits and making smaller possible costs. This means that transport management is no longer guided by the provision of a public service that takes into account the needs of the population, with clear social repercussions (particularly because it will make access to transport more difficult), environmental (because it will not encourage the use of collective transport, determining for a paradigm of more sustainable mobility) and the management of the territory (because it will form territorial areas without adequate collective mobility). This is what experience has said of the privatization of transport. But if the option of privatization itself is already a mistake, making it by direct adjustment and a month of legislative elections is an unqualified abuse. in these circumstances, of companies that have such a significant value, direct adjustment represents a total lack of transparency, the obscurity and the manner of those who have held as one of the central focuss of their policy the sale of the country to suit, whatever it costs. Above all, without the requirement to comply with a book of charges guaranteeing investment obligations and the provision of services to populations. This privatization is disputed by all, I repeat, by all users, by workers, by the authorities. The government is isolated in this desire for the delivery of STCPs and Port Metro to foreign privates, but still insists on doing so on the edge of what is expected to be a huge defeat of the PSD/CDS in the forthcoming legislative elections. The Government demonstrates its absolutely abusive, arrogant and authoritarian face. This is just another example of how PSD/CDS governs against the interests of the people of this country. With less access to more impoverished public services, carrying the burden of imposing a brutal tax burden, more subject to precariousness at work and dismissal at the door, with high levels of unemployment and overwhelming emigration, the Portuguese were martyred by this government. Continue in this path where we are placed PSD and CDS, but also the PS (as well as we remember the PECs of the previous government, and as they demonstrate proposals they have now presented) is to break with the possibility of generating a sustainable future for the country. The view of these parties on social security is a clear example. The decapitalisation of social security seems to be a common objective. from proposals to reduce TSU to ceilinging, what PS and PSD/CDS do is to ensure, by one way or another, a negative impact on future reforms and lower resources for social security. And the question is this: can the Portuguese accept this? Can one accept a cut of EUR 600 million in social security, already notified to Brussels but that the government refuses to admit and explain it to the Portuguese? Can it be accepted that the future of Portuguese people is in the hands of those who used them to save banks and encourage large economic groups? Because the Portuguese are not toys, the proposal that the ENP makes is that it bets itself later on on on policies that, once and for all, take people as the axis of governance. That is why it is time for Parliament to gain the colour of justice, equality, solidarity, responsibility, trust and loyalty to the Portuguese people and the Greens to assume themselves builders of that colour and hope for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u5	I'm asking the ladies. Members who maintain an approach to the time allocated to each parliamentary group. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are experiencing a huge humanitarian crisis, which is the refugee crisis. Every day we come to news of terror, stories of life and stories of death, and every day the suffering of women, men and children summons us to our humanity and rejects our indifference. We can't ignore them. They and they run away from war, from destruction, from death that looks at every corner. They faced many dangers until they got close to us. First of all, bombings, where Europe also has clear responsibilities; then travels to the Mediterranean; and then the immensity of the Mediterranean, which has become a huge cadaver where the number of lives lost can no longer be counted. That's where the sea turned into a huge common valley. Then, those who get to Europe find barriers, walls, prejudices. When our humanity should be called together, we see a huge cruelty. And for whom? Against whom? Against people like any one and any one of us. They are people like us, parents, children, grandparents, families, friends; they are people like us who had professions, functions, paths; they are people like us who only seek a stable and prosperous life; they are people like us who are desperate and reach out to us. This is a question of human rights and it was here that we should be great and show that we were at the right time. And we saw exactly the opposite in the action of our government, a government that looks small: first, I just wanted to pick up a minimum number of refugees; then, in the face of the pressure of civil society, increased availability, but always getting below what I could and should. A small government, which does not realize the historic moment we live and the dignified response we should give. A small government, which has always been pushed and never committed. It's not up to country or our history. A small government, which does not know what solidarity means either to its own or to others. A small government, which will remain for history but will not make history. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in this last speech of this Legislative Session and this Parliament, there is another issue which I would like to bring to the debate because this government often does not do what it should, but it is very persistent in what it should not. At least one month from the elections, we still see the corruption of privatization. If it does not go in any way, it becomes otherwise, in an incomprehensible urgency, against everything and against all. The direct adjustment for private delivery of STCPs is the best example. Against workers, against users, against municipalities, the government insists on privatization. Against the public interest, it privatizes by direct adjustment. Without any shame, she insists, less than one month of the elections! This is the example of governance over the past four years: always against collective interest, always with a deep ideological agenda to give privates what is of all, always against the interests of users, people, workers. After they have degraded the public service of the STCPs, after they have reduced the transfers of the state to the company, terminated lines, reduced routes and reduced the number of drivers, PSDs and CDS now want to give the final slaughter, ending the process with the privatisation of the company, less than one month from the elections. This is the privatisation fanaticism of the PSD government / CDS. That is why the next elections will be decisive. Not to change faces, but even to change policies, in essence, to end the ideological fanaticism of those who leave people behind to put business forward, to affirm an alternative that breaks with hardcore austerity or light austerity and returns income to families, to build a future of inclusive growth, with quality public services and with social security that guarantees security at a more advanced age and dignity for all. This is the alternative that the Left Block says. It is not only possible as it is within the reach of each and every one of us, of our hand, of our vote. And it is this vote that will make all the difference in the next elections, to win this state of things, this ideological fanaticism, and build this alternative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u7	For a political statement, Mr João Oliveira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the same time that the humanitarian crisis of refugees has made the world more and more unjust and dangerous in which we live and the inhuman, aggressive and exploitative character of capitalism is confirmed that Portugal has a government closely committed to the dramatic setbacks that mark international reality but also national life. We openly criticise the PSD/CDS government for its responsibility and for what it refuses to do to halt the drama that lives today, hundreds of thousands of men, women, children and elderly people fleeing poverty and war, in many cases finding equally barbarous death. We have openly criticized the PSD/CDS Government for its applause and support for the destabilization operations and the imperialist aggression wars that led to the humanitarian disaster we are facing today. We criticise the PSD/CDS Government, in particular, for its enthusiastic support for military interventions in Iraq, Libya and Syria, for its silence when Israel's military forces massacres against Palestinian citizens, for its inaction against the new military adventures that are being designed, in particular, by NATO, the pretext of the humanitarian drama but that they only aim to consolidate the economic logics, plunder and control of natural resources from African and Middle East regions. It is the obligation of the Portuguese Government to combat the causes of mass immigration, contrary to the policies of war and interference that are at the root of today's dramatic situation. It is the obligation of the Portuguese Government to respect the sovereignty and independence of States, to contribute to relations of solidarity and cooperation between peoples and to mobilize all the conditions available to the country to host refugees who seek peace and living conditions in Portugal who have been denied them in their countries of origin, leading to the practice of respect for human rights, including social and labour rights, the right of peoples to development, a humanitarian policy to support refugees and respect for the rights of migrants. And everything must be done to ensure that the European Union takes the same stance, inverting the cynical and even inhuman response it has taken throughout the process. We have no illusions as to the nature of the European Union or the motivations of the PSD/CDS government, but by putting ourselves on the side of those who defend the right to life and dignity and solidarity and cooperation between sovereign states as fundamental principles, we will not fail to denounce the options contrary to those values and we will fight for them to prevail. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that at the international level the PSD/CDS Government remains committed to the setbacks that affect and afflict peoples, it is no less true that at the national level the Government also insists on its policy of destruction and national sinking, of attack on the rights of workers and the Portuguese people, of economic and social retrogression. Now transformed into the PSD and CDS electoral committee, the government is engaged in misleading propaganda initiatives. Confronting this speech with the reality of the country, we confirm not only the dimension of the current farce but also the discredit with which the government today presents itself in the eyes of the Portuguese. If the assessment of the destruction of lives and of the future carried out in the last four years by the PSD/CDS government was not enough, some more recent references to the government's options and decisions would confirm this unfortunate policy for the workers and the people. PSD and CDS make the speech of economic recovery but give more macadamadas to fishermen and farmers with the impositions of the prohibition of fishing for sardine and the end of milk quotas. They inflame the speech with proclamations that the sacrifices were for all but insist on selling at any price the New Bank, leaving the loss bill of BES despite the State budget, so that they continue to be the Portuguese to pay with their work and their living conditions the privileges, bites and handovers of the bankers. They repeat the discourse on social cohesion and protection for the most disadvantaged but deny 70% of the unemployment benefit applications for those who have been bankrupt or ruined by the policy of favouring large economic and financial groups. They speak of defending national interests but continue to sell the country to play, insisting on the privatization of the STCP and the Port Metro by direct adjustment, after failure of the competition process. They repeat phrases made in respect of democracy but continue to collect lead from the Constitutional Court for violations of the Constitution. The lead of the law approved by PSD, CDS and PS that gave the Information Services unacceptable powers in a democracy or the lead of the unjustified enrichment law, purposely made by PSD and CDS with unconstitutional standards, so that he would never see the light of the day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u9	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u10	... are the latest tin medals of this PSD/CDS government, which will be dragged into office until the Portuguese people confirm its defeat. [[PSD protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It will take a lot of effort to set up this country after decades of right-wing policy. It will take a lot of effort to redeploy everything that has been destroyed, to relaunch the foundations of a more just, more sovereign, more equal, progress and development country. But, as always in history, this possibility is in the hands and reach of the workers and the people, because that is where the strength to transform life and society resides. in the struggle and in the vote, the workers and the people find the weapons they can defend their rights and change their individual and collective destinations. And it must be with that confidence in the future that they will find the policy that serves them. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u11	The political declaration of the CDS-PP is followed, for which Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are undoubtedly living complex and difficult times in which the human drama of thousands of citizens, fleeing from war and hunger, imprisoned by networks of trafficking in human beings that resort to all kinds of cruelty and brutality, cannot leave anyone indifferent. We know that only a global and concerted European response will honor the values of Europe to which we can be proud to belong. Portugal has a long tradition of welcome which certainly honours and is in this framework, the European, which will act.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The latest data from Portuguese exports have been published by the INE. It is confirmed that our economy continues to export more and more, which is undoubtedly a great sign of both internal and external confidence. They were also denied, once again, those who were saying that they were saying that it was impossible to export more, that it was impossible for our exports to continue to grow and that this path was an occasional coincidence, which would certainly not be repeated. Today's data is more than one of many denied to this bottom boot, I would say, almost professional. And a lie that is not made by any of us, in this Chamber, is made, yes, by the energy of our companies, of our workers and of all the Portuguese. in the quarter ended in July, exports of goods increased by 6 % and imports by 3, 8 %. The homologous variation of this month of July 2015, i.e. comparing it with July 2014, was 5 %, 6 % for exports while imports decreased by 1 %. in the seven months of this year that we have already known, from January to July, in almost all of them, specifically in six, exports have increased. Only in one month has there been a decrease in exports. Therefore, we can certainly say that we have a strong, clear and consistent tendency to raise exports, which is, above all, good news not to the government but to Portugal and all Portuguese. Today's data also means that we already have a coverage rate of almost 84% in our goods, which means that, when we have data from the exports of services, everything indicates that the commercial balance of goods and services will remain positive, contrary to what unfortunately happened in the last decades. In fact, this indicator, which is fundamental to the sustainability of a country — the external balance of goods and services, the trade balance of goods and services or, by simplifying, the difference between exports and imports — began to record positive balances in the years 2013 and 2014 respectively of 0, 9 % and 0, 5 % of GDP. In the first two quarters of this year, the balance continued to be positive. According to the Banco de Portugal Statistical Bulletin, the balance of the commercial balance of goods and services was positive at EUR 698 million in paragraph 1. This year's semester. These are facts and not opinions or arguments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u16	There is no doubt that all sectors of the Portuguese economy contribute to this outcome, but it is fair to highlight the important contribution of the tourism sector that continues to record. And again, the already known data of June 2015 show that we continue to grow above 2014 and to grow, in number of guests, sleeping and profits, well above our neighbor Spain. This is also for bottom-boot professionals who always blame other factors, and external factors, for the results we present. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this afternoon, we will undoubtedly discuss ideas here, exchange arguments and discuss opinions. Before we do this, it will certainly be important for us to know and establish certain facts, such as what I have already mentioned and what I will mention now. Certainly we have never denied the extraordinarily difficult times that Portugal and the Portuguese have gone through, the fruit of the troika, the Memorandum and the pre-bancarrot situation to which, unfortunately, our country had been led. But in the same frontal manner, we must not fail to recognize positive signs that are the result of the effort, work and merit of the Portuguese, which deserve our respect. in recent times, there is a new feeling to give a breath to the Portuguese economy, which is the feeling of confidence. Since the beginning of 2013, the consumer confidence indicator has had an upward profile and in the last month of August has again increased to its highest value since August 2001. Also the economic climate indicator that allows us to measure the confidence of companies has given positive signs, now at the level of May 2008. It is this data that gives us reasons to believe that the Portuguese economy will continue to evolve even more positively. The Portuguese economy is clearly growing. In homologous terms, compared to the same period of the previous year, we grew seven consecutive and chained quarters, that is, compared to the previous quarter, five consecutive quarters. These facts have a very real and concrete impact on people's lives. Employment, which must certainly be fundamental in our policies and the main priority after a period, but very difficult since the beginning of 2013 has shown signs of inversion of trajectory. That is, since the economy began to recover, employment began to increase and unemployment began to decline. We know that, for those who are still going through the difficult situation of unemployment, we are talking about a sign that is, above all, of hope and it is incomprehensible that someone in front of this hope may become angry, angry or confused. Having mentioned some of these facts, it becomes clear that Portugal is in a new phase of a cycle, a cycle of growth, a cycle of trust and, above all, a cycle of hope. We do not deny the difficult years that we have gone through, but we want them to be more and more our past. The choice we now have is simple and this is this: either we consolidate this cycle, we go ahead and build a better Portugal, or we go back to 2011 and we lie out the window everything we can build. This choice is the one that is now in the hands of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u17	The political declaration of the PS follows. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The refugee crisis is undoubtedly the most serious situation in recent weeks. It concerns us and we see ourselves in the essence of the statements made today by the President of the European Commission, hoping that things will change in practice. Madam President, there is a country out there that yearns for change of government and governance; there is a country out there that fights for the end of austerity, a path followed by the PSD / CDS coalition. Let's remember: on 3 May 2011, Eduardo Catroga stated that the negotiation of the External Help Programme to Portugal was essentially influenced by the PSD and resulted in better measures and that they go deeper than the so-called « PEC 4 ». On June 6, 2011, just over a month ago, the already elected Prime Minister, Passos Coelho, said that his government would be surprised to go beyond the agreed goals. The truth is that austerity has always been the political line of this government, focused on a country's impoverishment strategy. As Steps Coelho said in October 2011 « we will only get out of this impoverished situation ». And, in fact, this was the only promise the Prime Minister could fulfill. at the time, the government defended the path of austerity in the name of the decline in public debt and economic growth, but the reality tells us that in the last four years, the country has experienced an unparalleled social, economic and financial backwardness. Austerity impoverished families, suffocated businesses and forced thousands of Portuguese to emigrate. The numbers show the harsh reality that the government does not want to accept. The economy receded 15 years, returned 6 %, 5 %. Public debt has shot 30 %, the country owes more EUR 52 billion than in 2011. The tax burden has reached a maximum of 37 % of GDP in history. The poorest have suffered a three-fold loss of income above the richest ( today 2,700,000 Portuguese at risk of poverty, over 450 000 more than in 2011 ) ; around 25% of children live in families below the poverty line, which makes the policy of constant cuts in social support even more unacceptable, and this accentuates the inequality of opportunities and brutally compromises the future of a considerable part of the new generation. Employment took two decades, 220 000 jobs were destroyed; 50% of young people are unemployed and about 500 000 Portuguese emigrated in search of employment and decent work — every day they emigrated 320 Portuguese, a value comparable to only the 1960s. More than 1 million Portuguese are unemployed, and about 300 000 have been unemployed for more than two years. Poor credit to families and businesses has reached maximum levels, there are more than 150 000 families in non-compliance with housing credit. And more than 1,200,000 Portuguese don't have a family doctor. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has failed. And who says it is not only the opposition parties, it is the IMF, it is the European Commission, it is the OECD. A few months ago the European Commission warned that job creation should slow down and that the unemployment rate would continue at very high levels. The ethics of expansionist austerity failed. The government has confused rigour with cuts of wages and pensions. The government has confused budget savings with cuts in social support. The Government has confused the reform of the State with the emptying and closing of public services of proximity. For the PS it is very clear that the growth of the economy cannot be disconnected from the social condition of families and the country. We're a few days from the official campaign. The PS presented an electoral programme, a written commitment and accounts made. The PSD / CDS-PP coalition is presented to votes with an empty program and no numbers. There seems to be a great electoral purpose for PSD and CDS-PP : the dismantling of the social state and the business sector of the state. In April, the Government committed itself with the European Commission to cutting EUR 600 million into pensions within four months. We know today that this measure is part of an even more dangerous strategy aimed at dismantling the current social security system so as to privatize power through capping. The main threat to the social security system is unemployment and emigration and who most weakened social security was this government, because it was its austerity policies that led more than 1 million Portuguese to unemployment and more than 500 000 to emigrate. [[PSD protests.]] We affirm again that for PS there is, and there will be, no place for any kind of dialogue for new cuts in pensions and for public-private partnerships in social security. On the other hand, the Government's attack on the Public Sector of the State is recently focused on the transport sector. At the end of the term of office, seven privatizations and public-private partnerships were completed: TAP, CP Cargo, EMEF, Carris, Metro Lisbon, STCP and Port Metro. If this is worth any citizen's greatest embarrassment, the proceedings of EMEF, STCP and Metro do Port must be examined with greater parliamentary depth, taking into account the scandalous, untransparent and very dubious contours that have marked the decisions of the Government. Let us see: the privatisation of EMEF failed only in the heat up of the Court of Auditors, which invalidated the shameful contracts signed under the guidance of the Government, by this company and the CP in order to guarantee revenue of more than EUR 100 million for more than 10 years in maintenance services to the competitor who will win privatisation. The Government has launched public-private partnerships for sub-concession of the operations of the Port Metro and STCP by means of a direct open invitation to tender amounting to EUR 870 million — I repeat, a direct adjustment of EUR 870 million — to one month of the elections and in which the competitors had only 12 days to submit proposals. on the day on which these public-private partnerships were announced, the PS challenged the government to stop the proceedings and to refer them to the next legislature, on the ground that we will present at the beginning of the next legislative session a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The lack of decorum inflamed when the government not only failed to bring about direct adjustments, as it was at the point of announcing procurement on the basis of decisions taken in just two days. There is a lot of hidden information, no transparent decisions, an unjustified rush and the absence of any kind of social and political dialogue. The country needs to know the truth of the highly strange, non-transparent and irregular decisions that led the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy to launch two public-private partnerships, by direct adjustment, amounting to EUR 870 million to one month of the elections. There is only one sure and reliable vote that enables you to defeat the adventurerism of the right coalition and that vote is in the PS. Here are the big differences between the PS and the right coalition. There's an alternative to trust. It's possible to do better! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u19	For a political declaration by the PSD, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe and the European Union are today faced with a serious humanitarian crisis, a humanitarian crisis that stems from the day-to-day circumstance of reaching the borders of Europe, refugees, men, women and children, fleeing from war and persecution. These people do not seek economic migration, they do not come in search of better living conditions. These people flee from death and cry for help to survive in the hands of inhuman conflicts. Welcoming these people in our space of peace is therefore an imperative of solidarity and humanism. We will do it with all our efforts in Europe and we will do it with all our efforts in Portugal. We will also have to do so with a sense of urgency and shared responsibility. First, in the European context, with our partners and, second, also in the national context, with the living forces of our community, local authorities, social and religious institutions. The Government and, I believe, all parties in this House have already shown the spirit of openness and solidarity in Portugal to welcome and integrate these refugees. from our point of view, it makes no sense to speak in quotas, which makes sense that at European level the answers that each country can give and agree on and quantify each other's capacities are gathered. The European response must therefore be comprehensive and structured and Portugal must make every effort to welcome 2000, 3000, 5000 or more refugees. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We believe that the working group set up by the Government, cooperation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with other organisations, our own sense of convergence — the possible sense of convergence here in this Parliament — are the basis of Portugal's aid and solidarity. I repeat that it is not enough to welcome these people, it is crucial to integrate them, give them conditions for inclusion in the main public education, health systems, in the labour market, etc. I leave two final notes on this. in the PSD, and I believe that also in all parliamentary parties, we do not see ourselves in the policy of building new walls in Europe. Europe is the homeland of inclusion rather than exclusion. Europe is the homeland of peace and solidarity. Therefore, as a final note, we are not only left with humanitarian aid, which is indeed a priority today, but Europe will have to intervene more in the countries of origin of these refugees and to be an inducer and partner in the construction of peace and development of these territories, whether in Syria or in Libya, whether in Afghanistan, or in Iraq, where the war is about not to end. As a 13-year-old Syrian youth said last week: « We do not want to go to Europe, we just want the war in Syria to end. This should also motivate European policies and the capacity of the Member States of the European Union to converge. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are just over three weeks from the holding of the legislative elections in our country. As you can see, things are not going well with opposition parties. It has also been chosen to address this period of political declarations, which is very symptomatic. I want to be very clear: in the PSD and in this coalition we are truly interested in solving people's problems. We do not distinguish the transport concessions, whether they are in the Metropolitan Areas of Porto and Lisbon, or in Salvaterra de Magos or even in the Barreiro. I must even say that what is a concession in Porto is also a concession in Barreiro or Salvaterra de Magos. The concept is exactly the same. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u21	But more than that, there is a principle that this PSD and CDS-PP coalition advocates and that makes all the difference with the interventions that preceded me. We are not interested in a public transport sector that accumulates EUR 17 billion in debt in 10 years! We are not interested in a public transport sector that does not guarantee accessibility to citizens! We are interested in citizens having mobility! What did you say when we restructured the transports in the metropolitan area of Lisbon? They said people wouldn't have a bus or a train to get home. Today, no one remembers that anymore. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] In fact, speaking in concessions, what did you say about the process of sub-concession of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo? Have you forgotten? Oh, my God! [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u22	It's about what they say today about transport. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Look at the outcome of this case. In Viana do Castelo, the naval construction in Portugal was safeguarded, the jobs were saved, people were hired; the economy is dynamic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u23	All right! [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u24	When you look at these prejudices for these processes of concession and sub-concession, do not hide one thing: your policies bring imbalances, imbalances bring the need to be overcome and that need is the invoice left for people to pay, those people to whom we want to guarantee mobility conditions and transport conditions. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is restless. [[PS and PCP protests.]] I'm not saying she's desperate, but she's on her way. [[All right!]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u25	We will use every day that is missing until the day of the elections to confront the other political projects, but above all, to confront people with what they want for the future of our country. Do you want those who don't prevent tomorrow? Oh, my God! Do you want those who promise everything to everyone and in a different way, days in a way and other days in a different way? Oh, my God! Or do you want those who have the right path, who knows that the way is difficult, but who really believes in the ability of the Portuguese? Oh, my God! They want those who have expected that we would not be able to get out of the rescue and that we would enter a recessive spiral of our economy or want to believe in those who have persevered, who have persisted with the people and the people and, with the people and the Portuguese people, have made the country grow, have put the exports to increase, have put the unemployment to decrease, have put the balanced public services in place so that in the future they can continue to have access to health and education services and the guarantees that, one day, when they leave active life, there will be money in social security to be able to receive their reform? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u26	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u27	That is the issue that is on the table, and we live very well with what has to be said and explained in the election campaign. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the period for political declarations. I should like to note that all interventions have dealt with the great issue of refugees. All the interventions have done so and the Portuguese Parliament has already fulfilled a part of its task when, two months ago, it produced an analytical document at the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean with a proposal for solutions, which is already at the table of the European institutions. The refugees of war and hunger bear the misfortune of the world and it is the task of politics to fight this misfortune. Politics gives us the joy of doing and transforming. So we can never give up on her, inside and outside the institutions. Allow me, before we proceed to the vote, to vote. That's why politics is alive! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the voting period. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1585/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1586 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on the opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication which Mr Duarte Pacheco will do in favour of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several opinions. The first are related to proceedings to be held in the courts. The request for 2. the judgment of the Court of Intellectual Property of the Comarca de Lisboa ( Case No 177 / 15.0YHLSB ), the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr José Ribeiro and Castro ( CDS-PP ) to testify in the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u31	A second opinion follows. The request of the J2 Criminal Section of the Local Court of the District of Lisbon ( Case No 3907 / 14.4TDLSB ), the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Montenegro ( PSD ) to testify in the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u33	Madam President, the following opinions relate to resumes or waivers of mandates. in this regard, there is a first report and opinion of the Commission on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Article 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. David Costa ( PCP ), an electoral circle in Lisbon, with effect from 1 September 2015, including the opinion on the waiver of the legal requirements and the replacement of Jorge Manuel Ferreira Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, we shall vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u35	We now have a report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 5. the, paragraph 2 ( b ) of the Statute of Deputies of Mr Jorge Machado ( PCP ), as from 8 October 2015, including the opinion on the temporary suspension required by the Member concerned is authorised, since the legal requirements are met and the resulting vacancy under Article 4. point 1 ( a) of the Statute of Deputies should be completed by Lurdes Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, of course, that the conclusion of this opinion has an interpretation called 'a teleological reduction', because from 4 October new mandates begin, but makes every sense that this reduction is made in the interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u37	Finally, a report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication relating to the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 5 ( a ) ( 2 ). the Statute of Members of the European Parliament, Mr Alberto João Jardim ( PSD ), with effect from 19 July 2015, including the opinion on the temporary suspension required by the Member concerned, shall be authorised under Article 5 ( 2 ( a ). that of the Statute of Members, for a period of 90 days, because it is considered relevant, and as such justified, the reason invoked by the Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-09-09.u38	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Obviously there will still be the issue of the possession of new Members, but from 4 October, we do not even know when that will be. Therefore, the possibility of such an interpretation remains open. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a very good job and the greatest happiness. We will find-CL - still here, at a conference of leaders. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 5 minutes.]]
