ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, Mr. As and Mr. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, which has as its sole point the vote on draft deliberation No 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a), I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the draft deliberation No 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — List and composition of permanent parliamentary committees ( Chairman of the HR ), which has been distributed as well as votes 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Paulo Cunha and Silva ( PS ), Director of Culture of the City Hall of Porto and 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of the German statesman Helmut Shmidt ( PS ), who are currently being distributed. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u3	Let us then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) for which, although no time has been allocated for debate, I ask whether any Members wish to intervene. Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u4	Mr President, I will be very quick. I would just like to congratulate Mr President on his acceptance in his proposal of an idea that I had been fighting for a long time, which was that housing, as a fundamental right of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, had visibility in parliamentary committees. I see that it was included in the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, and very well because Articles 65. is 66. the Constitution is very well connected, so I would like to congratulate Mr President on accepting this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u5	Madam Member, it was a decision taken by consensus among all parliamentary groups. In any case, I thank you for your contribution and for your intervention. We can therefore proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The ladies and gentlemen. Members who, on the continuation of yesterday's epic journey, will not be able to register, fá-CL-o through the presence of the plenary support table at the right of the Bureau of the Assembly. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 191 presences, so we have quorum to vote. We shall begin the vote on the motion for a resolution. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u6	Mr President, we now receive the texts of the motions for regrets, so we ask them to vote only when we have read them. It is that they have been distributed right now, only now that we have had knowledge of them and we have not even had the ability to read them, so I ask that they be voted on at the next voting session.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u7	Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on our part, there is no drawback in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u9	Thus, we will vote on draft deliberation No. 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote will then be voted on at the next vote, which will take place at the end of next week. I must say that I agree with the idea that it must be given some time for the parliamentary groups to analyse the vote of regret, because often in the vote of regret, there are political and ideological considerations which, in the 'federal' of the votes, are not appreciated. Therefore, it is not wrong for me to postpone this, with all due respect for the people to whom the vows of regret refer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u10	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u11	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u12	To make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u13	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u14	Mr President, it is true that our agenda is on the screens of our computers, which we have just called, but it is only on them and we are not even aware of the terms of our regrets. Therefore, what I am asking is that the agendas of these days should be distributed to the Members, as is the case with a democratic regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u15	Madam Member, we are following the normal processes — which can indeed be changed, the world is changing... — having the terms of the votes distributed to the leaders of the respective parliamentary groups. In any case, it is appropriate to take some time to distribute the votes to all Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u16	Mr. President, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u17	To make a further request to the Bureau, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u18	Yes, Mr President, to make a further request to the Bureau. In fact, if you and some of this House consider it lawful to change what is a constitutional tradition, I consider it lawful to have the right to timely information of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore demand that the entire agenda be distributed in good time and not only available on our computers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u19	Madam Member, today's agenda has been published in good time at yesterday's plenary session and tomorrow's agenda will be published in good time at today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u20	Mr. President, I beg your pardon for speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u21	I ask the honourable Member not to insist very much on petitions to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u22	Mr President, I am sorry, but democracy does not sympathize with the insistence or not of interpellation, it is more connected with the early knowledge of what we are going to vote for. This is not merely formal and therefore I ask Mr President where are the documents to be distributed by all these benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u23	Madam Member, I believe that your question may also be addressed to the leadership of the respective bench. As I said a short time ago, there is a relevant procedural issue, which is that the votes of regret, normally. may be delivered until the beginning of the plenary sessions. While I was a Member at the PS bench, I always found this procedure very strange because it did not give time to distribute to the respective Members and much less so that the votes could be appreciated at meetings of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, I think that the initiative taken by the CFP today responds to this issue, and the honourable Member will also have in relation to the vote of regret, and others — unless there are exceptional circumstances — will know the relevant texts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u24	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u25	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u26	Mr President, I would like to make a new request to the Bureau. Therefore, recognizing me, you know, why and if you find yourself so strange and did not comply, I would ask you to do so. Members have access to all documents in good time, because they are not the leaders of the parliamentary groups that they have to do, you are.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u27	Madam Member, we will see, at a forthcoming Conference of Leaders, whether we are going to revoke a tradition, which in this case seems obsolete, which should be repealed, as I have said. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u28	Mr President, since Mr President has called on the board of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to say the following: in fact, it is a tradition and it is regiment that the weighing votes may enter the Bureau until the time the plenary begins in which they will be voted. It is given the special circumstances of this being a far shorter plenary than usual and, as has been said, and well, by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the votes of regret were delivered already during the sitting, which is why neither mine nor, I am sure, any of the branches of the parliamentary groups have managed to bring this or any other vote of regret to the other Members so that they could know the content of the text. Mr President, I am sorry but I do not support that reason and I must say that I agree with the methodology proposed by Mr Oliveira, since this is an exceptional plenary session. It does not seem to me that now, until the votes of regret are normally voted on in the week in which the efemeride occurs, if it is to change that which is a rule of procedure, it is certain that it is up to the heads of the benches, and in this respect Mr President is quite right, to make the distribution by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u29	Mr Hugo Soares knows as well as I was already in the front row of the bench but I was also in the last row and he was often surprised with regrets that he had not discussed at any level. I think it is very good that this issue is raised because, in addition to the regret, there is also a political assessment of the terms in which this concern is manifested. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u30	Mr President, regardless of how each of the branches of the banks brings information to their Members, I would like to make it clear that there is no objective, on our part, to make it impossible for the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions to be suspended, as it is obvious. That's not what's at stake. I would also like you to stress that it is not at all concerned, on our part, to amend some practice that has been followed in relation to the stability of the agenda and the way in which the vote script is set, which is set on Wednesday. There is an exception with regard to the votes, admitting that they can enter until the beginning of the sitting. And even those who enter the day itself can only be scheduled by consensus. Therefore, the practice that exists is that and is a good practice, because it prevents votes that are not known to vote, and the question that I raised was precisely that. Using this practice, having already talked to the proponents and once we did not know the votes in a timely manner and we did not even have the opportunity to make an assessment of them, I asked that they be voted on at the next sitting when there were votes. I believe that the practice we have maintained has allowed all Members to know what is voted on and therefore I think that we should maintain it. in this particular case, the only thing that I required, and was unanimously recognized, was that this practice should be applied so that the votes can be voted on at the next sitting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u31	Mr. João Oliveira, I thank you for your speech. In any case, I also agree that, except on exceptional occasions, the votes of regret should be submitted with sufficient time so that not only the leadership of the parliamentary groups but also the Members will know them and can speak about them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u32	Mr President, will you excuse me from using the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u33	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u34	Mr President, it is only to account for the Bureau and the plenary that since the X legislature we have a consolidated voting and scheduling mode. We have a principle on the stability of the agenda and a principle concerning the vote, which is also consolidated. So it seems to me that it would not be good to alter it at the beginning of this XIII Legislation. On the internal procedures of the parties, I would like to say that if Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross has any problem with the organization of her parliamentary group, she should address her leadership and not bring questions to the plenary that do not concern this plenary. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u35	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u36	Madam Member, would you like to address the plenary using what is a regiment?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u37	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President. It is to be said that none of this relates, of course, to relations between banking leaders, such as the honourable Member who has just spoken should know, but only with a republican ethics and knowledge of what Members vote and who is responsible for the presidency of the Assembly of the Republic to make respect. It is just a matter of fulfilling what Mr President has been defending for some time now: the early knowledge of the terms of the documents which are distributed, because each Member is a Member and each Member has his obligation, his conscience and his objection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u38	Mr President, will you excuse me from using the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u39	Mr President, I ask you to be very quick.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u40	Mr. President, I shall certainly be quick. It is to ask the Bureau to provide Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross with a new Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u41	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u42	Mrs Deputy, we cannot continue with this pong-pong. The question to the Bureau must be made about the conduct of the work and, as it is not being done on this matter, I am very sorry but I will not give you the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u43	Democracy! Democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-11.u44	Exactly. Democracy is also the respect of the majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is thus concluded. The next plenary session will be on November 18, Wednesday, with political declarations on the agenda and the assessment of petitions Nos 338 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the DECO - Portuguese Consumer Protection Association, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt legislation in the area of telecommunications, which reduces the legal maximum period of loyalty(24 months) and imposes criteria and limits on charges charged to consumers in order to ensure transparency and predictability and 499 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Presented by Vítor Cristiano Roque and others, denouncing the way in which the Professional Course of Arts of the Externate Delfim Ferreira Show is being managed in Riba de Ave, municipality of Vila Nova de Famalíão. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 28 minutes.]]
