ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and the proposals of lein. 332 / XII were accepted ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2006 of 29 August adopting the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 333 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January approving the status of the staff in charge of the services and bodies of the central, regional and local administration of the State, and the second amendment to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December amending the recruitment, selection and provision procedures in the senior management positions of the Public Administration, which falls to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.o 903 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Bensafrim, in the municipality of Lagos, Faro district ( PCP ), 904 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Barão de São João, in the municipality of Lagos, district of Faro ( PCP ), 905 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Tunes, in the municipality of Silves, Faro district ( PCP ), 906 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Algoz, in the municipality of Silves, district of Faro ( PCP ), 907 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Pera, in the municipality of Silves, Faro district ( PCP ), 908 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Alcantarilla, in the municipality of Silves, district of Faro ( PCP ), 909 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Frielas, in the municipality of Loures, Lisbon district ( PCP ), 910 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo António dos Cavalieros, in the municipality of Loures, Lisbon district ( PCP ), 911 / XII ( 4. a ) — Creation of the parish of São Vicente do Paul, in the municipality of Santarém, Santarém district ( PCP ), 912 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Vaqueiros in the municipality of Santarém, Santarém district ( PCP ), 913 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Casével, in the municipality of Santarém, Santarém district ( PCP ) and 914 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Val de Figueira, in the municipality of Santarém, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 915 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes an exceptional period for regularizing the situation of officials and officials of the State and administrative bodies as well as employed or employed workers who have served in Timor-Leste ( PCP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission, 916 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Montelavar, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 917 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Almargem do Bishop, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 918 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Terruge, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 919 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São João das Lampas, in the municipality of Sintra, Lisbon district ( PCP ), 920 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Pêro Pinheiro, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 921 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Belas, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 922/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Queluz, in the municipality of Sintra, district of Lisbon ( PCP ), 923/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo Isidoro, in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, district of Porto ( PCP ) and 924 / XII (4 . ( a ) — Creation of the parish ofTotuosa , in the municipality of Marco deCanaveses , district of Porto ( PCP) , which falls to11 . theCommission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we will start the agenda, the first item of which is the general debate on Bill No 330 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of ourseries and contrasts. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill approving the new legal regime of the goldsmiths and the contrasts presented today by the Government in this House is another step towards modernising and simplifying the state and facilitating the lives of economic actors. by bringing this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, it is also possible to comply with the recommendations contained in Resolution No 9 / 2013 of 4 February 2013 of that same Assembly, which recommended to the Government the revision of the contrast regulations. The new legal regime which is now proposed for the activity of Portuguese goldsmiths and contrasts meets several objectives: it establishes an updated and consistent legal framework for the trade sector of articles with new precise metals and also for articles with used metals; it simplifies and normalises the rules of the sector, since it replaces six diplomas — the Regulation of Contrastaries and successive revisions— whose first version dates from 1979 ; and contributes to the deepening of the single market of jewellery and jewellery services, since it establishes the criteria for mutual recognition of activity within the European Union. In summary, the legislative review and consolidation incorporated in this bill result in a clearer and consistent legal regime for a sector whose activity must be properly regulated in the name of the public interest, either for the protection of the legitimate rights and expectations of consumers, or for the very nature and value of the materials it operates with. In addition, the new legal framework now proposed by the Government effectively creates conditions for competition for professionals in the sector, who come under their valued professional status, supervisors, in particular ASAE, and consumers, who deserve the protection of their legitimate interests by the State. As it is known, Portugal has a long tradition of quality in activities related to the manufacture of precious and gemological metal artifacts. In the 13th century, the first laws that protected the consumer and regulated the goldsmithry sector came from, but the history of contrastery, as we know today, dates from the end of the 19th century, with the creation of the distributions of contrastery of Lisbon, Porto and Braga. The objective, then, as now, was to ensure that the quality stamps laid down in the material were a guarantee of the quality and value of the material. from 1972, the contrasts are integrated in the National Press — House of Coin ( INCM ), a name that alone is a guarantee of experience and know-how in the sector, and today are a significant part of the public service performed by INCM. The legal regime for goldsmiths and contrasts, which is intended to adopt, introduce, and introduce, several and relevant innovative principles: the admission of the marketing of articles made up of precious metals and of common metal, to date prohibited, which will promote the development and creativity of the domestic industry and trade; the recognition of the palladium as precious metal; the admission of mixed retailers without any geographical limitation; the admission of new methods of marking, such as laser recording or touch stickers; the admission of new categories of professionals, such as "growth artist" and "retailer for buying and selling articles with precious metals used"; the extension of the possibility of placing trademarks; the express admission of new forms of trade, such as distance sales, by electronic means, by catalogue, etc. ; the option for the elimination of the requirement for registration and licences revalidated annually; and the recognition of the licence of operators to the contrast, to be renewed for periods of five years. A final word for the system of preventive monitoring of the activity, essential for the growth of this sector, alongside the revision of the sanctioning framework, as a deterrent to illicit practices, deserving of repudiation at all levels. To ensure the safety of precious metals and to combat fraud and counterfeiting of marketed items, all marks of the punctures recorded remain in the file of the contrast, even when their punctures and matrices are not used. In addition, the legal regime of goldsmiths and contrasts establishes a set of rules for importers or distributors of retail-used precious metal articles which are obliged to maintain permanent records of the articles purchased and to transmit such information regularly to the Judicial Police. The sanction framework is also revised. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in line with the guidelines set out in the XIX Constitutional Government Programme, the legal regime for goldsmiths and contrasts, which this law aims to adopt, incorporates the principle of freedom of access and exercise of economic activities in a sector which, by its nature, contains dimensions that need to be addressed with sensitivity and good sense. The flexibility of conditions of access to activity, in a context of regulatory rigor and transparency, will not fail to create conditions for the development and growth of the sector, thus contributing to the innovation and growth of the Portuguese economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u5	They are registered to intervene. Deputies Eurídice Pereira, of the PS, and João Paulo Viegas, of the CDS-PP. Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The export of gold represented 1 % of total exports of goods and services in 2011. For comparative purposes, I wanted to tell you that in 2008 it was 0, 1 %. In 2012 it reached the peak by representing 1, 6 % of total exports. It was more than EUR 723 million, corresponding to an annual growth rate of 37 %. At the same time, they opened establishments which were known as 'houses for buying and selling gold' at an alarming speed. In 2012 they still opened, on average, two per day. Such a fact had nothing to do with it. The financial fragility of Portuguese families, who were disposing of their precious metal goods, had led to the fashion business, almost without a rule, as a result of outdated and obsolete legislation. It was precisely at the end of 2011 that the Economic Commission decided to set up a working group, which was pleased to coordinate, with the aim of assessing and evaluating the current legislation on the purchase and sale of second-hand precious metals, including licensing, trade and advertising. It was the result of the commitment of the group of Members — the Members. Deputies Eduardo Teixeira, João Paulo Viegas and Agostinho Lopes, who here I remember and recognize — a deep and consistent report and a recommendation to the Government that, as the preamble of the bill today under consideration, was one of the pillars of its elaboration. In the name of transparency, it must be said that this initiative that waited three years for birth was not at the right time at the service of families. In fact, in the face of great difficulties and total vulnerability and when there was still something to sell, people were getting rid of their gold items in search of income that replaced the lack of wages in all or decent wages. And they did it completely netted. As regards the bill, a substantial part of the recommendations of draft resolution No 378 / XII was accepted ( 1 ). ( a ), June 2012. But there is also a set of inconsistencies and incomprehensible requirements that need to be corrected and amended in the field of specialty, under the penalty of, in practice, becoming inexplicable and inconsequential important part of this law. I am referring, for example, to inconsistencies in the re-evaluation periods of knowledge for evaluators ( Article 4 ). the law and article 49. the Annex, to the inadequate requirements for renewal of licences ( Article 42 ). the ) and to the obsolete and ineffective model of registration and purchase and sale of used precious metal articles ( Article 66 ). o ). These are, as I have told you, only examples of matters that need to be changed. In short, we hope that there will be an opening to improve this proposal which provides for necessary aspects, but which cannot once again shield itself so that the smallest novelty cannot respond. I am, for example, reminding myself of how to put one puncture, either by laser or by traditional means, not being allowed another. I hope that the majority will allow these issues that I have mentioned to be improved in the field of expertise. We will put forward proposals to that end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u7	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Viegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We know that the Working Group set up in the Assembly of the Republic has done extensive work on gold and contrasts. In fact, this work has since been considered fundamental since early, ending up with a series of unupdated and dispersed materials by national legislation. If, on the one hand, it was noticed that there were new realities that deserved urgent intervention; on the other hand, and from then on, it was understood that the depth of the intervention deserved weight and time. In view of this, the Government was able to interpret the will of this House, having advanced with the necessary intervention, in order to deduce many of the difficulties presented in the report of the Gold Working Group. I recall that the report in the Committee on Economics and Public Works, originated the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 9 / 2013. Although the period of time in which that work was carried out corresponded to a period in which, with the emphasis of the crisis, the houses of penores and the gold business proliferated through this country, the relevance of the work performed was not lost. A number of subjects on which she urges to intervene have been identified. The fact that many operators have emerged on the market, more or less informed, and the need to protect consumers has triggered the need to intervene in order to ensure that the market corresponds to all expectations of a rule of law. Thus, and with the Government's proposed intervention now, we have managed to bring our legislation into line with European law and compile a number of rules which are dispersed by domestic law. In addition, improvements have been achieved at the level of a series of subjects provided for in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, including the inclusion of the palladium in the list of precious metals, creating the common mark for this metal, which helps to protect consumers, and the removal of territorial barriers to access to contrasts, which has been discussed so much in the Working Group. with regard to contrasts, its competences are developed and clarified, disciplines the affixing of trade marks and delimits the electronic trade of precious metals. As regards one of the matters which, in my view, is the most important, rules are laid down for the market for the precious metals used. I do not forget that during the Working Group discussions, we realized how important it was, for example, to photograph the pieces. Now, and with this legislation, it is already envisaged the need for photographic recording of the pieces. We are therefore talking about a legislative movement aimed at improving the services provided in this sector. I recall that these commercial activities are around values that historically have an important and transversal weight to the world's generations. Promoted interventions help to ensure consumer safety and to remove from the market all those operators who have an indispensable purpose in a just and true society. That is why the Government decides, and well, to present to us a new penal framework of practices that may constitute crime or counter-ordination. In order to ensure that all rules are respected, the supervision tasks of entities such as INCM ( National Press House of Currency ), the IPQ ( Portuguese Quality Institute ), the Tax and Customs Authority and the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) are distributed and densified. Only in this way, with good supervision and a deterrent effect of the practice of infringements, will we be able to achieve the true designs of consumer rights and security around these securities markets. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u9	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u10	Mr President, Mr the Secretary of State, Mr as and Mrs Members: The bill we are considering today is intended to reformulate the legal regime governing the exercise of our tools and the provision of services by contrasts. There was an imperative need to discipline this sector, but also to regulate the associated professional activities of evaluator and meter-founder of precious metals. in fact, already in this legislation, in 2012, Parliament, finding that in the last six years, houses of buying and selling gold and realizing the complexity of all the materials underlying the activity, created a Working Group, within the Committee on Economics and Public Works, that I was a member of, with pleasure, and that resulted in a set of conclusions and proposals to recommend to the Government by the Assembly of the Republic. We found the imperative need to reformulate the regulation of trade and the steel industry, due to manifest downgrading of existing legislation, which dates back to the 1970s, either by the emergence of new products with market potential, resulting from the junction of precious metals with others, or by the new testing technologies of metals and the marking of articles. We soon see the need for simplified procedures, current and assertive legislation and a more consolidated monitoring and sanctioning framework, aiming at the protection and protection of the consumer. The Government, through the Treasury Secretary of State, responds to this need with the bill, which it also deserved — it is fair to highlight — the contributions of the sector's representative associations. The new legal and legal system for the sector—it is also fair to highlight with appreciation—is in line with the recommendations contained in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 9 / 2013 which recommended the revision of the contrastary regulation towards the introduction of new instruments and procedures. The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the Government, represented here by the Secretary of State of the Treasury, by the current initiative, in an industrial and commercial sector that needs encouragement, but with security and responsibility, of incentive, but with effective regulation and supervision, of competition, but with more information and protection of the consumer, of empowerment, but with more control. This work is done by all of us required in this Chamber! You also congratulate the government! This is what characterizes the current Executive: attention, so that in a short time so many legal standards have been updated that are absolutely necessary for the activities of precious metals, especially gold; reform, to create conditions for the exercise of professions; expedite, so that the economy can be developed and preserve traditions and popular culture; simplify, so that it can be monitored and created value. Another job is done, and this is actually worth gold! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u11	by the Block of Left, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: One of the consequences of having sold the rings in recent years is that gold exports have increased greatly from 2011 to 2013. This led to the resolution that gave rise to this bill being unanimously adopted in February 2013, which recommended the revision of the regulations on contrasts and goldsmiths and resolved a growing concern, that of families who had no way of living to be selling their gold, historically kept for a day of more concern, and this despair has led many people to lose money because of the exploitation by shops that opened all over the country, with lack of information and sales at inadequate prices. at the time, in 2013, when the resolution was adopted unanimously, it was an emergency measure. Today, you don't have that emergency carousel anymore. However, two years have passed and today 63% of the shops that have opened up to take advantage of these desperate situations have already closed. Nevertheless — I would like to leave this note on the urgency which has been lost in the meantime — we recognise the validity of this regulation, this legislative concentration and that there is greater concern in the laws and rules that govern and regulate this sector. There are issues that have already been raised, which result from the Working Group, which I am sure has made a valid contribution to this debate, and which can be re-used in the debate of the specialty. We have doubts, however, about the opinions which follow the bill and which, although the Secretary of State has no more time to intervene, I will not fail to mention. DECO has done an important job at this level, such as other consumer associations, who have alerted to this problem and have done studies on the price differential to which gold was sold by people and then bought by these types of shops and establishments. The proposal for a law which has been sent to the Assembly of the Republic does not contain the opinion of the DECO or that of the other consumer associations. Since the purpose is to have more protection of consumer rights — this is written in the proposed law — we would like to know whether DECO has been heard, as well as the other consumer associations, what was the opinion given and whether these opinions can be sent to the Assembly of the Republic to guide us in the discussion we will make in the field of specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u13	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u14	Mr President, the State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Members: over the past few years it seems that there has been a gold mine of dimensions and production without parallel in Portugal. This gold mine was not in the basement or the surface, but in the drawers and closets of Portuguese families who were in a desperate state. With regard to what has been lived in recent years, this government has been increasing its debt to the state and it was not because of the people, who were stripped of their possessions and the jewels of the family that were kept in their drawers. at the most serious moment of difficulties that people have experienced, as a last resort, and so often in despair, millions and millions of euros have come out of our country in gold, in silver, in precious metals, in parts with much greater value than the material value in them present, as has already been demonstrated here. One of the main conclusions, but not the only one, of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, adopted following the Working Group, which has already been mentioned here, and which has done high quality work, was the need to produce a new Regulation of contrasts replacing what was in force, which was inadequate, which should be approved at most in time to enter into force before the renewal of the registrations, in January 2013 — and we are in May 2015! The Portuguese families with accurate gold and metals, as the PCP warned, through enormous difficulties, were forced to sell gold and family jewels and then continued here in the hands of some merchants, who fixed the purchase price of these goods to their bel-pleasor, thus collecting, with their subsequent sale to the foreign, fabulous profits. More than two years ago, we warned that it was necessary to put a final point on this loot and on this fraud of national heritage. This is from those situations where it is not good to say that this proposal is late. First of all, sin late! On the other hand, it is important to take into account the structure and means, in addition to the legal standards, which determine the daily life of this sector and this activity. It is important to take into account the need to strengthen the structure, means and capacity of the National House of Currency Press and, in particular, contrasts — they themselves, as official entities, must have a capacity to respond to the demands and needs of a sector that now has new responsibilities, in accordance with this proposed law presented here. The same thing happens, as appears in the Assembly Resolution, with respect to ASAE. It is not the protection of the Secretary of State, but it is a fundamental matter for the pursuit of the objectives that it requires and raises in this debate. Another issue is the lack of articulation between the entities in the monitoring and in the field, i.e. the lack of articulation that was felt and observed by the structures of the sector and that continues to be a growing problem today. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to make two comments which will, in fact, have to be analysed and weighted at work in the field. One of the comments concerns Article 41. the proposal for a law — a question which has already been put here — which refers to the licence of activity. For example, in relation to complementary activities, which weircraft retailers may have, they themselves are not necessarily licensed. But those who are primarily engaged in these other activities become empowered, or not, to equate themselves with goldsmiths. This is something that will require some warning on our part. On the other hand, the second point concerns Article 26. o. This is the question of handicrafts in the production of parts and in the consideration of the concept of jewellery artist versus industry of ours. We know that, in our country, the business fabric in this sector is composed of microenterprises, in its overwhelming majority with an average of two to three workers, who have workshops and use, in most cases, handicraft methods proper to the Portuguese goldsmiths. Therefore there is a differentiation of cases in which Portuguese micro-enterprises and handicraft methods of production of parts will require due consideration in relation to this border line which is defined either in Article 26. either, or in Article 41. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u15	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u16	I will finish, Madam President. Surely these are matters that we should take into account in our specialty. In any case, the alert is here for a matter which should already be the subject of concrete measures by the Portuguese State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u17	The debate on Bill No 330 / XII is thus concluded. I congratulate the Secretary of State of the Treasury and I congratulate the Under-Secretary of State and the Budget, who will take part in the next debate. We then move on to the second item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of the 2013 State General Account. To open the debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, in mid-2015, to approve the 2013 State General Account, which reflects in essence the budgetary results achieved from the Portuguese public finance consolidation strategy. In 2013 Portugal was still under the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme agreed with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. In 2013, there was a maturity of the first obligation which was not fully funded by the Programme, and this payment was ensured. In 2013, once again, the objective set for the budget balance was met, contributing to regain credibility and we continue the process of consolidation of public accounts. In 2013, we approved the extension of the maturity of official loans. with regard to the macroeconomic framework, 2013, although it was a year of real contraction of economic activity, it was also the year in which the recovery of the economy began. The unemployment rate began to fall after reaching the maximum in the first quarter of 2013 ; GDP recorded in the last quarter of 2013 a growth of 1, 4 % after 11 consecutive quarters of fall ; in terms of budgetary results, the budget deficit in national accounts amounted to 4, 8 % of GDP, a reduction of 0.8 percentage points compared to the previous year and less than 0.7 percentage points in GDP compared to the budget target for that year. There was still a primary surplus. for the first time, since 1997, the revenue increased by 2, 4 percentage points and on the side of expenditure witnessed a growth of 1, 6 percentage points, justified above all by the evolution of expenditure on staff and social benefits due to the replacement of holiday and Christmas allowances to public servants and pensioners. In terms of structural adjustment, the structural balance improved 0, 5 percentage points of GDP compared to the previous year and a primary structural surplus of 2, 9 % of GDP was recorded. Public debt reached the value of 129, 7 % of GDP plus 3, 9 percentage points compared to the previous year, but in sharp slowdown compared to the growth in the previous two years. Although 2013 has been a year of great challenges, it was the year when the results of fiscal consolidation and economic recovery began to be felt; it was the year of credibility recovery and access to financing markets; it was the year that created the conditions for successful completion of the adjustment programme, when many no longer believed it was possible; it was the year that gave rise to the hope of Portuguese in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u19	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: For the Government, the year 2013 was described differently than that felt by the country. First of all, it was the year of the huge increase in taxes—I am talking about the moment when people got to the stock market—in which there was a change in the steps of the IRS, which increased the revenue of IRS by more than EUR 3000 million. As if that were not enough, it was also the year in which this government created and gave birth to the excess rate of IRS, which was transient, but now we know that, at the will of the Government, it will last at least until 2019. It was also the year in which, fortunately, the Constitutional Court said that this government lived outside the law, outside the Constitution, and therefore forced the cuts of wages and pensions that the Government had for the second consecutive year in the State budget to be paid to people because they were unconstitutional. It was therefore the year in which the Government was rejected in its stubbornness. Although the Constitutional Court had said that it did not accept cuts in wages, the Government insisted and therefore saw the Budget being declared unconstitutional. And that was the change that allowed, with the increase in family income, changes even in the composition of revenue and economic activity. It did not end with the recession that the Government, with the austerity policy, had created and sharpened in the country, but in fact gave people some capacity to cope with the difficulties the austerity policy had presented. Therefore, if there is a summary of 2013 is the following: the government has been defeated because austerity policy has been plunged into the Constitutional Court and those who defended the Constitution and payment of wages have been victorious because it was found that the rights had to be respected. Not being within the scope of this General State Account, it is curious to remind us that, in that year, even the Socialist Party said it was unconstitutional not paying wages, although now referring to its promises that it will not pay the salaries of the Public Administration in all, not in 2016, nor in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u22	But in 2013 it went to the Constitutional Court — we know that it was the trailer of the President of the Republic, the Left Block and the other opposition parties — that there was no alternative and that he wanted wages to be paid. Well, the world has changed since 2013, the Earth has turned many times and has also turned the word of the Socialist Party. The truth is that if we should learn something from 2013 is that opposing austerity gives families income capacity and gives the basis for any recovery from the country. when the government is denied, the politics and the thesis of those who say that austerity only brings problems are confirmed. Beating the foot to austerity brings solutions! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u23	The part he talked about was good, but the rest...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u24	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The year 2013 was the year of the huge increase in taxes, it was also the year in which the economy hit the fund in the first quarter and in which the government had an unemployment rate of more than 17 %, but it was also the year in which the government was blocked in its austere fury by the Constitutional Court. I would like to quote what Mr. Secretary of State, Hélder Reis, said — which is very expensive and with whom it is a pleasure to debate, because, unlike most rulers, he is concerned about having a serious debate on 28 January of this year, in the debate we held in the COFAP ( Committee on Budget, Finance and Public Administration) on the 2013 General Account of the State. The impact of the decisions of the Constitutional Court was being discussed and, when confronted with the opposition's positions, they said that what had avoided the recessive spiral and what had reversed the economic cycle attenuating the 2013 recession had been the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Secretary of State said the following : « I cannot but admit that there is a positive impact on the economy ». It is obvious that there is a positive impact on the economy because when the available income of public servants and pensioners is increased there is a positive impact via consumption, as Mr. Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u27	The question was whether the Government had compensated for the negative impact of the Constitutional Court's decisions with additional austerity. To that end, I will mention the Council of Public Finance in its analysis of the 2013 budget implementation. The Council of Public Finance then stated the following: « The implementation of 2013 suggests that the budgetary consolidation measures on the side of expenditure did not fully compensate for the effect of the replacement of subsidies ». It further states: « However, by noting the effect of the increase in non-discretionary expenditure (... ), the realization of this intention... » — i.e. of the substitution measures — «... does not make any difference to the evolution of expenditure ». This is indeed the decision of the Constitutional Court had an expansionist impact on the economy and that is why, from the second quarter, and in particular from the third and fourth quarters, with the increase in the available income of public servants and pensioners, the economy has fallen far less than it was expected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u28	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Today we discuss the 2013 General Account of the State, almost a year and a half after the end of this economic year, but we do not forget the dramatic consequences for the Portuguese people that resulted from the government's political options. Unable to continue the confiscation of holiday and Christmas allowances, unable to directly transfer labour wealth to the capital via TSU (the single social rate), the Government opted to sacrifice the same as usual, imposing a brutal increase in the tax affecting workers’ incomes — EUR 3200 million additional in one year. Was there any alternative to this brutal increase in IRS? Of course there was! It would have been perfectly possible not to tax workers, pensioners and families and at the same time to ensure adequate tax revenue to support the social functions of the State, provided that the large capital, profits and financial speculation were properly taxed. But on a more appropriate taxation of the big capital, the government and the majority PSD/CDS did not want, as they still do not want, to hear. The Government's option to increase the IRS to unbearable levels, as well as to allow the budget deficit to be reduced expeditiously, was another objective: to create the conditions to justify the continuation and deepening of the policy of dismantling the social functions of the State, making it a condition for a future reduction in taxes to accept, by the Portuguese, a reduction in public spending on health, education and social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u31	As if a fair and adequate taxation of labour income could only be guaranteed by the elimination of rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. while crushing workers, pensioners and tax families, the government was preparing an IRC reform that would enable large companies and economic groups to substantially reduce the value of taxes delivered to the State. These options clearly reveal the nature of government policy: to expolate those who live from their work to promote large capital. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. MEPs in 2013 continued the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, with dramatic consequences for Portugal and Portuguese: GDP fell 1, 4 %; the unemployment rate reached 16, 2 %; thousands of micro and small enterprises went bankrupt; social injustices and inequalities were deepened; and more than 100,000 Portuguese, mainly young people, without any prospect of the future in their country, were forced to emigrate. It is this policy that the Government intends to extend, at least by 2019, by maintaining the austerity measures that had been lied to as temporary. in its objective to perpetuate the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, the PSD and the CDS are accompanied by the PS, which, accepting all conditionalisms and constraints that led the country to the current situation, undertakes a commitment to the continuation of the right policy. We must defeat this policy. What the country needs is no more than that. It is an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, truly at the service of the workers, of the people and of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u32	Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The 2013 State General Account refers to the last year in which we were under the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ( PAEF ), the year in which we were able to return to markets to place medium-term debt and thus acquire a fundamental part of our autonomy, our economic and financial sovereignty. In fact, a return which has often been made impossible by many of the opposition Members here today. It was also the year in which GDP inflection was drawn, which began to grow from the end of the first quarter of 2013, and the same inflection in unemployment figures, which reached its peak in that year and since then have always begun to come down. Therefore, 2013 was probably the most difficult year of the Program and, necessarily, of this Legislation, because it was necessary to concentrate all efforts. It was the year in which the budget implementation received two-thirds of the applications and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. It was the year in which 116 public entities were reclassified within the state's budgetary perimeter, rising to 162 entities, so it has increased four times and with this imported much of the increase in public debt which today is restricted to the state's budgetary perimeter. It was the year in which 2, 2 million euros of net spending were accumulated with BPN. On the other hand, Madam President, it was the year in which the CFP so much likes to talk about this, if it was found — Table 80 of the Court of Auditors' report explains this very well — that only 20 % of the tax expenditure of the large aggregates, I believe that of the 10 largest, goes to the SGPS (social equity management companies) regime, the rest goes to companies of public utility of social solidarity, incentives to create employment, benefits to investment and of course — we already know that the CFP disagrees with this, but the CSD agrees — to the Free Zone of Madeira. Finally, I believe that Mr. João Galamba will do well to look at Table 5 of the Court of Auditors'report, where, between expenditure and revenue disbursements, in the light of the initial budget, and if we look at the State budget report for 2014, the Court of Auditors identifies more than EUR 1500 million in favour of taxpayers. Therefore, what was initially budgeted increased by expenditure and revenue as a result of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u34	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Today we are talking about the provision of accounts by public administrations and social security 2013. We all agree that it was not a good year for the Portuguese, but it was a decisive milestone, it was a year of turn. Without 2013 it would not have been possible 2014, 2015 and the next years will not be better than is expected. We are not satisfied with the sacrifices that were required of the Portuguese, but we know that it was done the best that served the interests of all of us. Discussing now, in the middle of 2015, the 2013 General State Account also allows us to aquilate that the policies pursued were the best. We will pursue a certain policy, which has enabled the Portuguese to gain hope. contrary to what the PS says, we do not want to go back, for the wrong policies that led Portugal to hell and the abyss of 2011 and 2012. The year 2013 was impressive, because Portugal continued to share in the implementation of the Adjustment Programme, with the world economy to be slowed down, with the euro area in contravention of economic activity, still enabled the country to consolidate the recovery and credibility, with a deficit of the public administrations, in the view of national accounting, of 4, 9 % of GDP and, if we consider the criteria of the PAEF, of 4, 5 %, i.e. 1 % below what was contracted. This route allows us to 2015 be the year with the lowest deficit of the last 40 years, first deficit below 3 %, since we joined the euro. In terms of financing, Portugal started the process of returning to sovereign debt markets in 2013. In June 2013, the European Union agreed to extend the maturity of loans, which was a healthy renegotiation of debt. There was a major reversal of the public debt dynamics, which increased from 15 % in 2012 to 4, 9 % of GDP in 2013. The policies followed will also allow a public debt amortisation of more than EUR 14 billion by the end of 2015. A sign of trust and the correction of the management of public debt was the Treasury to go to the market yesterday and have obtained a negative rate for its financing. in 2013, it was also seen a retraction of economic activity, but which, compared to 2012, allows to verify the cycle of investment. The recovery is becoming stronger with a growth of 0, 9 % of GDP in 2014 and a growth in the first quarter of 1, 4 %, while some institutions are forecast to increase. The unemployment rate fell from 17, 7% in the first quarter of 2013 to 15, 3 % at the end of the year and has consistently fallen to 13, 5 %, representing less than 70,000 people. There are now 692 000 unemployed and, although still a high number, it can already be compared with the 706,000 in 2011. In view of these results, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that the Portuguese, both consumers and entrepreneurs, have shown levels of confidence that have long never been seen. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u36	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u37	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to quote, it is enough to analyze the results and developments from 2013 until today to see that, in fact, policies have been correct and accurate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u38	Mr João Galamba, who has 31 seconds, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u39	Mr. President, I just wanted to complete what I said at the beginning. Mr Cristóvão Crespo said that no citation was necessary. Well, I think that making quotations, in the correct debate, that the Under-Secretary of State and the Budget, who is present here, made a hearing and that concern directly the 2013 General Account of the State, is appropriate, but perhaps the Member has a different interpretation. I just said something very simple. I said that there was a recessive spiral in 2012 ; that the economy hit the bottom in 2013 ; that the Government was blocked by the Constitutional Court from the second quarter of 2013, curiously the quarter where the economy improved ; that it is a fact that when the Constitutional Court brought the government in, there were no substitute measures and therefore the return of salaries and pensions had an expansionist effect on the economy by increasing the available income of public servants and pensioners, and I concluded by saying that Mr. Secretary of State acknowledged this fact. That's it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u40	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u41	Mr. President ( Miranda Calha ). — You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u42	Mr President, I would like to give Parliament additional elements. Since I have been referred several times, and thank you for that reference, I would like to say that there is a document — I did not bring it with me to be able to distribute it — prepared by Professors Miguel St. Aubyn and António Afonso, of the Higher Institute of Economics and Management, who demonstrate that—and I, in this conversation we had in the COFAP ( Committee on Budget, Finance and Public Administration ) I said that there is always an effect but that is marginal—this effect is negligible and the conclusions are not all that can be drawn from what I said. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u43	I think it's over...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u44	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u45	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u46	Mr. President, it is to provide an explanation to Mr. Secretary of State. I can say that I spoke... [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u47	Sir, thank you for your understanding. Mrs. Members, we turn to point 3 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No 317 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Creates the National Health Professional Inventory. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government shall submit to this House Bill No 317 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which creates the national inventory of health professionals and establishes their operating arrangements. With this bill, the Government intends to ensure the conditions for the creation of a national inventory of health professionals based on an information system to identify all healthcare professionals empowered to carry out their activities. The pursuit of a more rational and efficient policy of use of available resources is absolutely necessary to continue to guarantee the right to health protection and implies the need to adopt measures that promote efficiency improvement by organizations, in particular by making existing resources profitable, capacity installed in various health services and establishments. Management, coordination and planning in the field of human resources of health is, of course, a complex and challenging activity. in this context, the national inventory of health professionals will contribute to greater efficiency in planning the needs of health professionals and in coordinating human resources policies within the National Health Service. The inventory, in order to meet the needs of the Ministry of Health in terms of quality of care and human resources management, should include two aspects: updating and validation of professional data; statistical quantification of the number of professionals who perform functions in the public sector, in the private sector and also in those who perform functions in both sectors. The national inventory of health professionals includes health professionals who exercise regulated professions with registration in their professional orders, as well as non-conventional therapy professionals, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and podologists, regulated professions with registration in the ACSS (Central Health System Administration ), who provide health care in the public, private and social sectors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that this bill is a relevant legal instrument that will contribute to improving efficiency in the planning and management of health resources, providing the Ministry of Health with an important instrument that will contribute to the implementation of health policy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u49	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u50	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This is a bill aimed at registering health professionals who in Portugal exercise regulated professions with an impact on health, as well as non-conventional therapy professionals who provide care in the public, private and social sectors. The aim is to improve future needs in this area. It is a bill that is based on the Health Bases Act—it was a measure that also included in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2011—and in fact assigns these functions to the Central Health System Administration. It also considers the European call for cooperation and the sharing of good practices in this area. In comparative terms, this register is already made in Spain and France. In Spain, safeguarding personal data and in France, there is registration, safeguarding the e-mail address. Some recommendations have been made that need to be taken into account, of the various professional orders and also of the National Data Protection Commission. There is no need to go beyond the troika in this matter, as it has been in the other areas of health, and there is no need to go against the Basic Law. We can respect the law that protects personal data. And, therefore, the Socialist Party has some amendments to propose, but generally agrees with this measure. But by enhancing this measure, as the Secretary of State has now done, almost at the end of the legislature, the Government well denounces the management mistakes it has made over the years. Why didn't you take this action earlier? More than a record that needs to be made, it is important to change all health policy both in administrative management and in strategic management, as well as in human resources management. It is an obligation of a government that defends health involving professionals, not to deal with situations of exhaustion and treatment that are less worthy of professionals and users. The lack of health professionals is a problem that has existed for some time. We saw the ruptures in the emergency services, the shortage of beds, the excesses in the waiting time and the screaming lack of family doctors. In Vila Real, to give an example of the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, 12 clinicians, 8 anesthetists, 2 urologists, 1 surgeon and 1 dermatologist recently emerged. The operating rooms were stopped, the surgeries were postponed, the waiting lists increased. The Government has recently approved incentives for the mobility of professionals in the interior and in the deprived areas. What are the results of these measures? What balance can we make now? Strategy is needed. Human resources are needed throughout the sector and throughout the country. It is necessary to increase motivation, to encourage mobility with professional development policies. More and better cooperation is needed between health professionals with regard to the division of competences and responsibilities. More planning is needed and account needs to be taken of this entire erratic health policy. There is an urgent need to change health policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u51	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u52	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the CDS strongly supports this government initiative, which comes, in fact, as has already been said, to comply with a constant standard of the Health Bases Act, which specifically provides for the organization, by the Ministry of Protection, and the national registration of health professionals. And why is this national inventory, centralized in ACSS, so important? From now on, as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out, for a matter of ensuring the protection of the quality and safety of health care provided to citizens. The identification of professionals who can intervene in this very essential for all human beings has enabled greater and more effective control of the qualifications to exercise their activity. We are talking about professionals who have the regulated activities in Ordinance No. 34/2014 of 12 February, but also non-conventional therapy professionals, and now also podologists, who provide care in the public sector, in the private sector and in the social sector. Therefore, it is intended to ensure quality and scrutiny for all the population who travel to health care, regardless of the sector. Secondly, this inventory is essential, because only having a global perspective of professionals is that it will be possible to have a strategic vision and make rational options for the SNS and for our entire health system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u53	It will never be too much to reinforce the importance of informed planning and it will never be too much to reinforce the costs for citizens and for the state, resulting from the lack of strategic and timely planning. I ask the Socialist Party why you, who have been criticising the delay in preparing this inventory, have not done so during the six and a half years in which you ruled. There was nothing to prevent you from doing so. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I therefore find it very curious that you are now complaining about this delay. This inventory aims to provide the public health administration with adequate management of human resources so that it can precisely avoid the ruptures that sometimes occur. I ask again: why didn't you do it? More: only with this inventory will it be possible to anticipate the needs of the populations, taking into account demographic developments, age differences and different epidemiological incidences, as well as the appropriate distribution of units, health equipment and their professionals, as is evident. Therefore, the aim is always clear to this government: to guarantee citizens equal access to the necessary health care throughout the national territory. And only with this constantly updated inventory will it be possible to link the demand for specialties to the training needs. in the CDS, we do not believe in any kind of leadership, but we believe that the state is required, in particular through universities and other bodies and units that conduct vocational training, that provide credible information on the existing demand so that young people can make informed decisions about the way forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u54	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u55	In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that only with this inventory can we promote the necessary and appropriate investment of human resources in health. Only this register will allow Portugal to have adjusted coordination within the SNS and honour its statistical reporting obligations to national and international bodies. Only in this way, Mr President, will we have a more accessible, more effective, more adaptable and ultimately sustainable health system. In short, we believe that this is an unmistakable measure to meet the growing challenges of our health system and SNS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are discussing today, in general, the proposed law aimed at the creation of the national inventory of health professionals. This is a proposal that has deserved serious reservations from professional health orders, which we believe should be, in the field of specialty, weighted and studied. It assumes that this inventory, and I quote, "is an instrument for planning the needs of health professionals in the public, private and social sectors, as well as for coordinating human resources policies within the National Health Service." The PCP does not dispute the need to know how many health professionals exist in Portugal and to raise the needs of professionals. In addition, we have been presenting a number of proposals throughout this Parliament for the Government to make precisely this lifting of the needs, but these proposals have been systematically plunged by PSD and CDS-PP. It seems to us, however, that it is not enough to know how many and what areas are the existing health professionals in Portugal to define a policy for the human resources sector in the SNS and to guarantee the right to health. What is the advantage of knowing how many health professionals are, if they continue the offensive against the rights of these professionals? What does it help to know how many health professionals in Portugal, if you maintain a policy that does nothing to prevent highly qualified and extremely necessary professionals for the proper functioning of the SNS and the provision of quality health care from leaving you early? What does it take to know how many health professionals in Portugal are if the professionals in need are not hired? As regards the fact that the inventory constitutes, as the Government says in the bill, an instrument for planning the needs of health professionals, it is strange that the government is now presenting it. Since 2011, there has been a work on the responsibility of the Central Health System Administration in which the current and future provisional needs of SNS physicians have been identified. From there to here, what has the government done on this matter? Nothing! Rather, the government continued a policy that fostered and encouraged early exit of health professionals, the emigration of newly trained in all areas of health: nurses, doctors, diagnostic technicians and therapy. The Government, also in the preamble to the bill, says that it is only feasible for the State to assume responsibility for guaranteeing the right to health protection, and I quote, « if there is a national inventory of health professionals(...) ». Nothing more false! It is not enough to know, we have already said it here, how many and who are the professionals to guarantee the right to health. The right to health is ensured only if the SNS is equipped with health professionals who are required to provide quality health care. The right to health is guaranteed only if there is a breach of the policy pursued by successive governments and, in particular, the current one. The policy that this government has pursued fosters and promotes the professional and social devaluation of health professionals, daily contributes to the dismantling of the National Health Service, reduces public investment and reduces the response capacity of the SNS. Mr. Secretary of State, the right to health can only be guaranteed if we have professionals in sufficient numbers and socially and professionally valued, complete teams, motivated and inserted into the career and with public ties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u58	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u59	I conclude now, Mr President. The right to health is guaranteed only if the SNS has the necessary and sufficient funding to ensure the provision of quality, proximity and accessibility to all users. And such guarantees, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Government members are only enforceable with the defeat of right-wing policy and its executioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u61	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Health Bases Act is clear as regards the exclusive responsibility of professional orders in creating the registration of health professionals. We find that the government has found a new way to put this situation in the bill we are discussing today, ensuring that the orders are that they register and transmit it in block to ACSS. But there is a question that must be put and it was good for the Secretary of State to clarify Parliament. Isn't there a duplicate of the record here? How is registration going to work on orders and registration on ACSS? This is because, in fact, today, the Government already has access to all this information, but the Secretary of State, in the Statement of Reasons of the Bill, presents this register as if it were the solution to the problems of the National Health Service professionals. Mr. Secretary of State, I just wanted to say that it is because of the lack of this record that there isn't a little for the entire country of family doctors and specialists! That's not good, Mr. Secretary of State! We all know that today the government already has access to information about professionals who can exercise their competence in the field of health. So this record will not, by itself, have any magic potion here to solve this problem. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, it was good to clarify whether there will be any duplication here or whether there will be no and how it will solve the problem. We also understand that it has to be very clear not only the need for this centralized register in the government, because all information is centralized in the government, through the ACSS, but is centralized in the government, but also its function so that we can assess its need, its effectiveness and what it will serve. It also seems to us that not all the recommendations of the National Data Protection Commission, made in relation to the first proposal submitted by the Government, have been taken into account, so it should be a matter to improve in the field of specialty, as well as some concrete proposals that the various professional orders have presented in the area of health. Finally, if Mr Secretary of State says that this national register will allow adequate human resources management in the field of health in order to meet the needs of the population, the words were his and were said even now when he presented the document, then we hope that the Government will shortly present the allocation of family doctors to thousands and thousands of users throughout the country who do not yet have it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u62	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u63	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are discussing today the Government's bill to create this national inventory of health professionals. There is, in fact, a national and European consensus on the importance of human resources management in these matters and the health experts in our country, whether they are directors of services, health unit managers, health professionals themselves, as I myself, all say in unison that it is fundamental better terms, more robust instruments to ensure better management of what is the most relevant activity of the National Health Service, which are people and health professionals. To this end, the Government has submitted, using the Health Bases Act, the creation of this inventory, which is an computerized database, as it has already been said, based on the ACSS, which is already the own body for the management of human resources of health, in which it safeguards the privacy and protection of data and, with this instrument, the Government becomes informed about all health professionals in the public, private and social sectors. Know who the health professionals in our Fathers are, what their skills are, where they work. In fact, from the point of view of the management of the SNS and the health system, as a whole, the need to have an instrument of this nature is obvious, as was also said, to ensure the quality of the services provided, the equity in access to health care, the sustainability of the public service. The question that must be raised is the following: how did you expect 36 years of the National Health Service to reach this structural piece, which is fundamental, from the point of view of the management of our system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u65	With this inventory, we will provide the bodies and guardians with all the information they need to properly program the needs of human resources in health; we will allow the political decisions we make in terms of human resources in health to be taken in an informed and sustained manner; we will ensure better quality of health care, insofar as we will be able to ensure that those who provide these care are properly trained to provide them. The inventory will also allow a rigorous statistical analysis to leave this discussion on the lack of doctors and the lack of nurses and look at the detail to perceive, in each region, what is missing and what needs to be done and we can cross this information with the health indicators to take steps to improve these indicators. Finally, human resources management, staff recruitment, mobility of persons can no longer be an administrative act. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u66	Mr President, allow me to interrupt you. I am grateful that the people who are in the galleries made a little more silence so that we can hear the speaker and that the security forces take action. Mr. Deputies, please excuse this interruption. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u67	It is the interest of the galleries on the national inventory of health professionals, certainly Mr President! But I was saying, and to conclude, that human resources management, staff recruitment, human resources mobility, all of this has to be more than just an administrative act of our public services. We need to have human resources management aimed at real value creation, effective health gains. This inventory, in particular, takes an important step in this direction and, in the end, I am sure, will contribute to an improvement in the health of all and of each Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u68	For a second intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In response to the requests for clarification addressed to me, I shall, of course, begin by thanking the opposition for the contributions which they now intend to introduce in this bill, which will certainly be judged by their merits. As far as reserves of orders are concerned, we are not surprised, but also at some point at any time by our proposal, because, in reality, this is not a duplication of resources or records, but only by ensuring that the State, the Public Administration, and not only the Government, will have immediate access to all the information necessary for human resources planning. on this subject, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I do not agree with you when they say that we have done nothing in terms of human resources, when clearly in recent years the number of doctors in Portugal has been increasing, the number of general and family medicine inmates has increased significantly and, will have to admit, today, the number of Portuguese with family doctors is much greater than what we found in 2011. But like VV. They also did not agree with the comment on this subject to introduce programmatic questions on government policy, very sincerely what I am saying to you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first signs that have already come from the opposition on this subject, namely the reading of the draft pre-programme of proposal which is to be one day programme of the Socialist Party, leave us deeply concerned, rather than because of the enormous and overwhelming poverty of ideas and, rather, because, essentially, almost everything that was to be done has already been done, and we have done better. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u70	With no further inscriptions, we move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the joint debate of petition No 449 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by FENPROF, National Federation of Teachers — « Teachers challenge the municipalization of education» — of draft resolutions 1469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the municipalization of education and defends the universality of public school and compliance with the Basic Law of the Educational System ( PCP ), 1473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — at the end of the deresponsibility of the State and the municipalisation of education ( The Greens) and 1476 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consensus against municipalisation of schools and for school autonomy ( BE ). To present draft resolution No 1469 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome FenPROF and all the petitioners, who are demanding the suspension of the municipalisation process. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first attempt to municipalize education. Earlier, PS and PSD tried it and, curiously, at a time when the IMF was in Portugal. The current PSD/CDS government imposes, against the workers and their representative structures and in a process, from the beginning, unclear, a transfer of competences to the authorities, which is no more than a deresponsibility of the government itself in matters which are, unequivocally, their responsibility and which correspond to universal rights, as determined by the Basic Law and enshrined in the Constitution. A process initiated and conducted against the will of the school community and the authorities. A fraud process, because it only plans to make available the resources that exist today, without strengthening the means for the proper fulfilment of these powers, which prevents the resolution of existing problems. The same government that says it wants to decentralise is the one that imposed a financial truncheon on the authorities and undermined their autonomy, closing schools, dismissing teachers, resorting to precarious work and employment-insertion contracts to respond to permanent needs; it is the one that created mega-groupings and thus centralized. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Municipalization of education means open doors to privatization of public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u73	... as happened with the AEC ( Curriculum enrichment activities ), and also means the withdrawal of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u75	It also means transferring the discontent of the populations to the authorities and the worsening of territorial asymmetries—with public schools at different speeds and hundreds of different educational policies, jeopardizing equal opportunities for children and young people. It is another way, found by the government, to cut public school funding and is, above all, threatening the universal character of public school, attacking its principles, as a social function of the State and an irreplaceable instrument to combat economic and social inequalities and regional asymmetries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP proposes here today the annulment of the process of municipalisation of education, in particular the contracts already established, and the Government summarising its responsibilities, which have been transferred to the authorities. We propose measures to strengthen the public school through the valorization of education professionals, the hiring of more human resources, the fulfilment of student rights, the free teaching and elimination of barriers to economic and social inequalities, the reconstruction of democratic management of schools, the enrichment of curricula and the modernization of the school park, and the State must assume all its responsibilities in this area. These are essential conditions for a free, quality, democratic and inclusive public school, a pillar of the democratic regime, which was a success in April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u76	To present draft resolution No 1473 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to begin by greeting the petitioners, who today force the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the issue of municipalization of education. Perhaps it is necessary to make, briefly, a history of this government's work on education, because we believe that all this comes in the same line of thought, intention and objective. We remember that this government has contributed a great deal to the underfunding of education, has sought to take means for the school to succeed, and this is extremely important. Alleging a financial crisis and the need for financial restraint fired numerous teachers, increased the number of students per class, finally, carried out a series of issues that we all have discussed here briefly and that the Portuguese and, fundamentally, the school community have deeply in mind. We believe that this subject of municipalization of education is another piece in this puzzle. Interestingly, or not, this whole process was generated under deep secrecy, perhaps it should be said, with separate negotiation of contracts with municipalities, and these contracts and their matrices of different responsibilities, on a case-by-case basis. It may also be important to recall that the history of the transfer of competences to the authorities in our country has always resulted in funding problems. Always! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Greens have absolutely no doubt is that it is up to the State to ensure equity and equal opportunities for all citizens, ensuring the same skills at the end of all cycles and courses for all students attending public education. This is a function of the State, a social function of the State, and what the State is trying to do is to dissociate itself from that function, also claiming that Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the teaching of local realities needs to be closer. But we say that in order to approach the teaching of local experiences there is no need for the State to be irresponsible. It is as simple as this: the State must assume its responsibility to promote equal education for all but also adapted to local contexts. The government is not able to put the state to that end, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? We believe that promoting inequality of opportunities in teaching by this country outside cannot be an objective. You can't.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u78	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u79	I will finish, Mr. President. The State cannot see just numbers in front, it cannot see only a country disaggregated in front, to permanently wash its hands. The state is fundamental to people and what this government wants to do is minimize the state to the maximum for the Portuguese people and enlarge it to the great economic and financial power. It can't be, Mr. President. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u80	To present draft resolution No 1476 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is it, which she has been able to join the Council of Schools, all trade unions, including FenPROF, which promotes this petition, the two associations of school directors and one without a number of entities in the educational community? The government, which has managed to bring together all, in particular, in the challenge to the so-called municipalization of education, and it understands why. First of all, because this pseudo-decentralization attracts, atrophy, collides with the autonomy of schools and gives municipal chambers the possibility to intervene in the lives of schools and educational communities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u82	It's a falsehood!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u83	Oh, is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u84	... a function and competence for which municipal chambers are not prepared, do not even have the professional trachejo to do so and therefore this solution has been contested. Of course, many of the parent associations, which also lose power, and the bodies of the schools, who lose power and capacity to intervene, do not like that the chambers are signing contracts with the central administration that allow there to be savings and reduction of expenditure—which is already within the lower limits of the history of the educational community in democracy—so that half of these savings are allocated to them. They do not agree that the president of the chamber is an appeal authority for a disciplinary sanction on a student. They do not agree that the president of the municipal chamber intervenes in the training of teachers, in the pedagogical orientation of a school. [[PSD protests.]] This is to walk backwards and contravene everything that is necessary from the point of view of the autonomy of schools. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to these inter-administrative contracts, should be suspended, those who are not yet signed, or permanently cancelled, because the path is not this and, sooner than later, certainly, this so-called educational municipalisation will end on behalf of the autonomy of schools. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u85	Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decentralisation in education is a measure that has been regularly discussed in this House and in several debates with parliamentary groups. And if there is something that stands out in these discussions is that no matter how often myths are clarified, there will always be those who repeat them because ultimately myths are preferred to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u87	That's your case!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u88	Unfortunately, this is what happens to the petitioners and to the parties on the left that today have presented their initiatives and is regrettable. We have said and explained many times that the accusations made on this measure of decentralization of education do not have a fit. And we repeat once again: it is not a municipalization of education, as all today have called it purposefully, but rather a decentralization. The difference is important. It is not municipalization because there is no integration of schools and groupings into municipal chambers, and they continue to be organic units of the Ministry of Education, with their own organs and competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u90	We have also explained, by + b, that there is no loss of autonomy of schools, quite the contrary. In fact, the case of Cascais speaks for itself: of the 123 delegated powers measures, about 83 % are of shared competence between the chamber and school groupings. In other words, schools will always be at the heart of decision-making, contrary to what has been said here today. We have also explained that there is no transfer of competence to municipalities in relation to the management of the teaching body in schools, whose rules remain centralized in the Ministry of Education, and as such teachers will continue to be treated in the same way and by the same rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u92	We have already explained that the accession to the pilot project was entirely voluntary and negotiated case-by-case by the authorities with the Ministry of Education, and there was, as such, no government imposition : who did not want to join, did not join. And there were left and right authorities that joined the pilot project, clearly showing that this is not an ideological project, as some like to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u94	What an idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u95	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all these clarifications have been provided in due time. Today, if the accusations we hear here remain alive in the political debate is because some parties, moved by their ideological and also corporate interests, do not want to abandon the centralist model of the Ministry of Education, and, say, do not want to abandon the centralist model of the state. They hurt. Approaching people's policies in the localities is ensuring that people's needs are better served. in the case of education, this is crucial for our future, not only in terms of diversity of educational supply as in terms of resource management and innovation, but also above all Portugal has the most centralized educational systems of the OECD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u96	Isn't it the government that wants to close the health centers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u97	That is why we are against the suspension of decentralization and the repeal of its legislative framework. And to make it clear, it is not just this majority that opposes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u98	Listen, Mr. Deputies, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u99	They are also authorities that have voluntarily joined, they are the various educational agents we have contacted in recent months, and they are also the parents. In fact, and by recovering the words of CONFAP : « it does not seem reasonable to us to suspend a process that has already been taking place in communities since June, harming all those who have made a commitment to contribute so that the Approximate Education Programme can be contextualized and appropriate to each reality».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u100	Parents don't count, do they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u101	So, and for all this, we will vote against all the proposals under discussion today. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u102	Mr Acácio Pinto has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Socialist Party to about 20,000 subscribers of this petition that FENPROF brought to us today, under the heading « Teachers challenge the municipalization of education ». This is one of those themes and those political processes on which we can say that it didn't start well, it's not going well and it's going to end badly. It started badly because the government has certainly not been able to bring to the debate the main actors it should have brought: the educational actors, the various local partners and the Portuguese. And this obviously happened in a debate that did not exist either and that was certainly not brought here in correct terms with regard to the concepts used. We are talking about decentralization, municipalization and we are talking about more than what! Therefore, this whole process is completely adulterated by this government, soon the criticisms of the National Association of Municipalities and Schools are not surprising. From the beginning, the National Association of Municipalities criticized this process and gave a negative opinion about it. On the other hand, the School Council accused the Government of being, and I quote, "to discuss these issues without giving an active voice to the main actors in the educational process in this matter" and accused the Government of wanting to be irresponsible in educational matters. Educational matters must obviously be at the centre of public policies of any government that wants to combat failure and inequality, and what we have seen over the past four years is that success has not been promoted — on the contrary, failure has increased — and inequalities are all in sight. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are thousands of teachers, educational agents, who, as you can see, are against and repudiate this process and who, including, reject Decree-Law No 30 / 2015. But it is also not understood that a process like this, structuring for the State, of decentralization, which the PS gives enormous importance to, is developing within a few months of the end of legislation. You don't understand! [[PSD protests.]] We also want to say the following: a real decentralization, with respect to the autonomy of schools, would be welcome, but a mere delegation of competences, without connection, without debate and without the studies that the law imposes, only shows that the government does not know where to go, is not in the sense of state, what it wants to fight the public school and not qualify the answers of the administration and the state. I leave a final word to welcome the initiatives of the other parties associated with this petition, saying that the PS has always had a clear and well-defined position in favour of voting the cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 30/2015, which supports these inter-administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u104	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u105	I conclude, Mr President, by unequivocally saying that the PS is against this process of municipalization of education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u106	Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the authors of this petition and the parliamentary groups that present draft resolutions that wish to meet the demands of the petitioners. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in a very clear and frontal manner, wishes once again to state that it disagrees with this petition by FENPROF. This decentralization of competence is not a municipalisation of education. in fact, schools are not integrated into municipal chambers, schools continue to be units of the Ministry of Education, with their own organs and competences. It is not a process made in no secretism, it could never be, and to affirm it is to ignore the functioning of local power. The government, the municipalities and the educational community have maintained and maintained a deep dialogue and several have been the meetings, sessions and conferences held in the affected communities. contrary to what is stated in the petition, there are no changes to the management of the teaching body. The teachers maintain the link to the Ministry and management in the school organs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u108	Sure! And then they go to the mobility too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u109	The allocation of teaching staff in schools continues to be the sole responsibility of school groups and there is no loss of competence of the groups and their bodies in the field of curricular and pedagogical management. The petitioners call for the opening of a public debate, which, as we have already said, has always happened, will continue to happen and will certainly continue to be verified, until pilot projects will be monitored and evaluated. The draft resolution of the Communist Party, that of the Greens Ecological Party and that of the Left Block is based on the same narrative as the petitioners and are sick of the same mistakes. We cannot therefore agree with them. The PCP insists that this is another strategy for the future privatization of public school—it is wrong! [[PCP protests.]] The delegation of competence shall be between public entities and no sub-delegation of competence shall be allowed to private entities. It also stresses that it is done against the will of the school community and the authorities — the Portuguese Communist Party is once again wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u110	Say your word, sir! Cascais!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u111	This project of decentralization of competence is proposed and is not imposed, it is not imposed on schools, it is not imposed on authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u112	Chantage!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u113	The Greens Ecological Party insists on the already contested argument of secrecy and is concerned about the separate negotiation of contracts and the different matrices of responsibility. We remember that this is a pilot project, developed in municipalities with different dimensions, different population densities, different problems, with different political nationalities and therefore the matrix of competence is developed in dialogue and from the local reality and the will of local agents. The Left Block, in fact, only wants absolute centralization, does not believe in local power. It is clear in a sentence, which we regret, of its draft resolution, and I quote: « The foreseeable caciquism to which the management of the School Park and the faculty are subject in a school totally dependent on their municipal chamber is a cause for great concern». We do not have a suspicious look at local power, we trust people and their institutions, we trust our educational communities. As for the Socialist Party, and in spite of the different positions we know them, I believe that it will respect the will of its authors who are engaged in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u114	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u115	I shall conclude, Mr President. For all that is said, this Parliamentary Group will not vote in favour of any of the draft resolutions currently under discussion and reaffirms that it agrees and supports the Government in a dialogue, transparent and prudent manner as it is decentralizing education competences. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u116	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for a second speech within his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All inter-administrative contracts that are known have the possibility of the municipal chamber managing 25% of the curriculum, having competence in the pedagogical area, in the training of teachers, in disciplinary areas of students. Therefore, what exists at this time is a subalternization of those who have professionally prepared and those who have their own bodies in schools to manage exactly the areas of pedagogical, administrative, disciplinary and teacher training.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u118	It's caciquism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u119	If the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS understand that their education councillor or their mayor is that they perceive these issues, because I tell you that this is really motivated by political sympathy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u120	All right! [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u121	...absolutely political sympathy, wanting to undermine the democratity of school communities and the autonomy of public school. And, yes, it was the script of the reform of the State of Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister Paulo Portas, accompanied by the whole government, which said that the creation of municipal colleges is the foreclosure of privatization. You wrote it, you presented it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u122	Mrs. Members, we are now moving to the fifth item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 455 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Association of Professors of Mathematics, requesting to the Assembly of the Republic the suspension of the implementation of the Programme of Mathematics A of Secondary Education, approved in January 2014, and of draft resolutions 1470 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the reintroduction of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Programme and the advertising of their evaluation results ( PCP ), 1474 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension and consequent re-evaluation of the A Mathematics Programme for Secondary Education ( PS ) and 1477 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the application of the Mathematics A programme — 2014 ( BE). For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the Association of Professors of Mathematics and also all the signatories of this petition, which allows today to discuss in plenary a subject with which the Education Commission was confronted but which PSD and CDS chose to ignore, despite its impact on the lives of students. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the date of the repeal of the Basic Education Mathematics Programme, the Association of Teachers of Mathematics has expressed a series of concerns and doubts that reality has proved to be fair and correct. In fact, the revocation of the Mathematics Program, starting in 2013 / 2014, when it had been approved in 2007 and its generalization would only be completed in 2012 / 2013, means the waste of work and investment made in the elaboration, experimentation and implementation of the 2007 program, with results that were evaluated but that were never disclosed by the Ministry of Education. It is to be remembered that only at the end of this academic year would the 2007 Mathematics Program be fully implemented, meaning that it will be repealed without having been fully implemented. It should be noted that the Ministry of Education's order created an effective situation of incompatibility in significant matters between the Mathematics Program and the curricular goals and that it collides with the legal devices that guarantee the quality of school textbooks, disrespecting their deadlines for their implementation and preparation. It is also important to remember that for students and their families this decision also had a financial cost, since they will have to replace the existing manuals by others still unknown and most likely more expensive. The pedagogical and didactic perspective that this new Mathematical Program imposes is privileged to mechanize procedures, routines and more formal aspects of Mathematics, to the detriment of learnings of a greater cognitive requirement, in a program that is more extensive, that opts for atomization and compartmentalization of teaching, making it difficult for an articulated and integrated learning. The implementation of this new Program incorporates the government's view of curricular matters, with the clear objective of machining students, guiding them for the single purpose of external evaluation, devaluing the teaching/learning process and the development of young people's knowledge. Even in these days, the national examinations of the 4. the year is a good example of this retrograde vision. Instead of allowing schools to focus on the specific needs of students, they prepare us as if they were racing horses, taking only the result and not their school course. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the revocation of the Mathematics Program and its replacement meant a profound change in the teaching of Mathematics, translating into a backward decades and contrary to the principle of the formation of the individual's integral culture. Having come to follow the concerns expressed by the Association of Teachers of Mathematics and considering previous interventions by the PCP on this matter, we propose the reintroduction of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Program and the publicity of the result of the evaluation of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Program. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u124	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the subscribers of this petition, present in the galleries, and all the remaining signatories of this document promoted by the Association of Teachers of Mathematics. The petition explains, in a very clear way, why its subscribers request the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the new A Mathematics Programme in Secondary Education. These are reasons why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes and is not too much to state: there has not been an evaluation of the current Programme or an analysis of the results it has produced; there is no knowledge of the scientific-pedagogic reasons and reasons that have led to this new Programme; the Ministry has not provided adequate conditions nor sufficient time for an extended and participated debate. This view, shared by the Association of Teachers of Mathematics, is also the reason for the generality of the professors of Mathematics, researchers, scientific societies, professionals, the CONFAP (National Confederation of Associations of Parents) of the Board of Rectors, as well as the National Association of School Leaders, among many other entities. The government's haste is guided only by the usual ideological and pedagogically retrograde ferrète, now applied to the teaching of Mathematics. Once again, Minister Nuno Crato's blindness wants to prevail. The new Mathematics Program is a retrogression, the teaching approach is inappropriate, the Program is excessively abstract and formal, is inadequate in content, is too extensive and inexhaustible, differs from the current curriculum guidelines for the teaching of Mathematics, which are internationally recognized, as well as from the practices of the countries in which are commonly accepted as references. This program assumes as a prerequisite the new Basic Education Program, with which the students who will now enter the 10th. the year had no contact. Therefore, this Program will only distance more students from technical and scientific areas that are essential for the development of the country. The teachers did not have adequate training and preparation, which would be required if there were serious implementation of the Programme, which differs substantially from the current one. The rapid and anachronistic implementation of this Programme is further evidence of the lack of rigor and capacity of Minister Nuno Crato. The Socialist Party, through its Parliamentary Group, gives voice to the legitimate expectations of teachers, parents, researchers, associations, and presents a draft resolution recommending to the Government the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the new Programme, as well as the evaluation of the Programme in force in an extended, participated debate, and taking into account the best existing international reference practices in order to make changes that are deemed necessary and appropriate to improve the teaching of Mathematics and its scientific and pedagogical quality within Portuguese students. Students and the Country deserve better and better than this Master's Mathematics Program Nuno Crato. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u126	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also want to welcome the Association of Professors of Mathematics and this initiative, the petition. We deal here with two questions at the same time. One of them is the disagreement, the fundamental divergence in relation to the scientific conception of the Mathematics Program, which the Association of Professors of Mathematics understands, and we accompany, which is a different conception, retrograde and which will be ineffective from the point of view of mathematics training in our teaching cycles, privileged not knowing to solve problems, the inductive reasoning, but a certain formalistic idea of Mathematics, very supported in some very questionable theories of cognitive psychology, etc. This is a debate, a matter that has to do with a conservative conception of education and education, which we follow because it has to do with the future. But the focus of this debate is another issue, that of the 2015 / 2016 school year, in which, incomprehensiblely, Minister Nuno Crato wants the math program to enter into force for secondary school when there is no didactic unit between the Basic Education Mathematics Program that has been developing, also against our opinion and the Association of Mathematics Teachers, but for a reason of stapafurdy. And what is the reason for Minister Nuno Crato? It's because he's going away soon, and before he leaves, he means, "Well, I left all the teaching cycles...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u128	Do you believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u129	If the gentlemen. PSD Members will allow me, I continue my speech. As I was saying, Minister Nuno Crato, before leaving, means "I have left my brand in all cycles of teaching, my Programme", even if there is no didactic foundation in the articulation of teaching cycles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u130	Let's see who's leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u131	You don't get it! These students didn't have another Basic Education Mathematics Program, did they? It is therefore a position of abuse, of pre-eminence, of Minister Nuno Crato and only that would justify the suspension of its application for the next academic year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u132	For an intervention, Mr. João Plata has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating a petition and three draft resolutions, and the element that unites them is exactly the concern with the A Mathematics Programme for Secondary Education. The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes and welcomes the petitioners, in a total of 4120, who note concern and interest in participating in decisions. But the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot value the race of opposition parties, which, in their draft resolutions, have only limited themselves to blurring and reproduce the words exaggerated in the text of the petition, with the exception, registers and highlights itself, for the draft resolution of the CFP. It is true that they have this freedom, but the responsibility for the role of a Member is to look beyond it and not just to look at one of the opinions. Without lukewarmness, and for the beginning of conversation, it should be said that, in this case, the opposition has gone wrong. And he went crazy because he only looked at a part of the contributions that have come to us from civil society. I would also like, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to give a very special thanks to all — and also to some individuals — that have made their contribution democratically. We do not expect that some of these contributions present concerns and divergences in relation to the A Mathematics Programme for Secondary Education and, in particular, with the timing of its application. But, let us be strict, we also have contributions to rebutt those presented in the petition. Above all, and once again, the opposition took advantage of only the views that were agreed upon by them and is excessively partial in its desire to hustle and not contribute to a high debate. Therefore, the opposition deserves to be held in the place where it is and to develop a recovery plan capable of realizing the real importance of the plurality of opinions in predicting decisions. Let's get to the facts now. The Government has chosen to present a new Mathematical Programme for Basic Education and Secondary Education. It also presented the curricular goals for this structuring discipline. I remember that secondary school's Mathematics A allows access to higher education in technical and scientific areas. What is the question: has the government developed this process without debate? False! The Government promoted the public debate of the proposal for the new programme which lasted about five weeks and, more importantly, in the final version, at least 40 of these contributions were received, in particular the extension of the programme and also in relation to some content. We also ask ourselves: will the government implement the new programme from September onwards without taking care of the preparation of teachers? False! The government has already created a body of teachers who will now, in their schools, assist colleagues with new programmatic indications. More, preparation books are available for the new program on the Ministry of Education website. You ask yourself again: Is there a cut with the previous program in the new Program? Again the answer is no. It is not true, we do not have a new program radically different from the previous one. Yes, it is more demanding, it is more focused on practical applications of Mathematics, it is closer to international models and the investigation of this discipline.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u134	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u135	Yes, it is true, it has greater ambition and also better exploits the source of information existing in schools and in the school results itself achieved by the Portuguese students. To conclude, Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group does not cease to bring here the importance of the content of the petition, but it hopes that, with the start of the implementation of the new Programme, which continues and emphasizes the training of teachers, which systematically monitors and affects the learnings of the students of Mathematics A of the 10. the year and that the institutions of higher education are involved in this same follow-up. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the petitioners of this initiative, in this case represented by the Association of Professors of Mathematics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u138	Some are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u139	On this petition, I mean that it is not for Members to assess the scientific relevance of curricular content. We may have our opinion, as parents or educators, but we're not specialists...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u140	Some are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u141	...and, therefore, we have neither the competence nor the technical authority to evaluate the quality of curricular rites, whether they are from Mathematics, Portuguese or any other discipline area, nor is that our function. This does not mean, of course, that the monitoring of government action cannot involve subjects related to curricular issues. It means, yes, that this supervision should be limited to political and procedural issues, leaving the scientific assessment by the scientific societies themselves, associations and working groups in the field of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u142	Exactly, we criticize that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u143	It serves this note to stress that the assumptions that serve as support for petition and also for the other initiatives are not consensual, and since they are not consensual should not be regarded as absolute truths. An example of this is the opinion of the Portuguese Society of Mathematics that expressed its disagreement as well as the arguments put forward by both petitioners and parliamentary groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u144	But that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u145	...and the Portuguese Society of Mathematics has as much authority as any other entity. The truth is that the Portuguese Mathematical Society said the following: it rejected that the 2014 Mathematics A programme strongly contradicts the previous one, since it respects the same thematic structure and stems from adjustments made necessary by the experience of 15 years of application of the previous curriculum; it rejected that there is a departure from best international practices, stating, on the contrary, that the new curriculum is in the direction of the most modern curricula of European countries and international recommendations of institutions such as TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study). He refused that there had been no adequate conditions for participation in the public consultation period and, in fact, the Portuguese Society of Mathematics itself sent its contributions. He acknowledged that in schools and even in school textbooks there were clear signs that the previous curriculum was being exceeded and lacked updating. Finally, he stated that the implementation calendar does not represent any constraints for the learning of students who are now entering high school, until the students had the opportunity to contact the new curriculum goals, even if they were not formally subject to the new basic education program. The political evaluation of this process is not the scientific evaluation of the Mathematics Program A. Unfortunately, opposition parties did not resist the temptation to question the quality of the new Program, using the position of an association of teachers, although there are other scientific opinions and so opposed that it is not possible for Members, being serious, to choose one at the expense of another.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u146	That's good! You can make your choices, not the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u147	Assessing what is specifically political, we found two things, which are the ones to be evaluated: from the point of view of the procedures, that the need to review the curriculum had been manifested by several entities, that the process proceeded normally, that there was a period of public consultation, that were sent dozens of opinions and that these were integrated, according to their relevance, by the Ministry's Working Group. from the point of view of its implementation, that students had the opportunity to contact the new goals and, therefore, we did not see any rupture that could harm them. In other words, these two observations make us confident that there are conditions for the application of the new Mathematics A Programme in the coming school year and that this has everything to serve the needs of the students better. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u148	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS who have other opinions contrary to the view that the opposition parties or petitioners here have had. But, after all, these «other opinions», said in the plural, are all retrained only to the Portuguese Society of Mathematics, which was the only one who could quote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u150	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u151	... which, legitimately, has your opinion but, as we all know, is more or less an intimate department of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u152	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u153	So it's not worth discussing much about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u154	There he is! It's a coincidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u155	But if it is true that it is not for politicians to make scientific assessments - they may have an opinion, but they do not, that is true - one thing is certain: it is for politicians and decision makers to verify that a programme which does not have a teaching unit will enter into force in relation to the programme which precedes it. And about that, Mr. Members of the CDS and PSD believe that they can already have clear, scientific opinions and on this procedure. Well, that's the contradiction in terms. in fact, what is taken in form here is a freight to the Minister of Education, for an abusive and dominant attitude that he took. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u156	End here the discussion of point 5 of our agenda today. Before we move on to the next point, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u157	Mr President, it is to inform that you have entered into the Bureau draft law No 957 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u158	We are now entering, in point 6 of our agenda today, the assessment of petition No 429 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Committee on the Fight against the Exploration of Caulina in the area of Bonitos (Fregueses of Soure and Redinha), expressing its disagreement and requesting that the Assembly of the Republic discuss in plenary its effects on the quality of life of the populations, together with draft resolutions 1461 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of procedures for the granting of caulinos in Soure and Pombal ( BE ), 1465 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Immediate suspension and non-assignment of caulinus operating licence in the area of Bonitos, Soure Council ( PCP ) and 1468 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the area of Bonitos ( Soure and Redinha) free from the exploitation of caulinos ( The Greens ). For an intervention, I give the floor to Mr Luís Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to emphasise the petitioners' initiative. The history of fighting the exploitation of caulinos is long in our country, in several geographical areas, in several territories, and all of them have had the same motivation, i.e. the need to counter a mineral exploitation that is contrary to public health, which irremediablely contaminates soils and is a source of pollution even for several other derived contaminants. So, here is the need for an ecological balance, a social and human balance, and we follow this petition so that there is no provision of farms in this area of Bonitos, Soure and Redinha, regardless of the various companies that have been asking for these concessions. In due course, we asked the Ministry of Economics what the situation was, whether these concessions were going forward or not. The Ministry of Economics has 'washed its hands' and sent it to the Ministry of the Environment. We asked the Ministry of the Environment, which did not make much progress either, saying that an environmental impact study would have to be conducted. And so far we have no further news from the central government. This project has the opposition of the authorities, it has the opposition of all those who are agents in the territory, of all those who do not, in fact, want the exploitation of caulinos. Here, in the Assembly of the Republic, in 2010, we achieved a huge convergence, and with this we made a decisive contribution to putting an end to the exploitation of caulinas in Barcelos. I believe that it is the right time to have this convergence here too, because this union of efforts is necessary to definitely stop any attempt to exploit coulins there in such a densely populated area. This type of exploitation cannot affect a natural habitat, a human habitat, of the kind it is found there and people have been very explicit and have expressed well its vehemence and the need for this process not to follow forward. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u160	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I welcome the petitioners who bring this claim to the Assembly of the Republic to block the concession for the exploitation of caulinos in Soure County, in the area of Bonitos. It has already been mentioned here, and it is a fact that the extraction of caulinos, such as, in fact, from many geological resources, brings social and environmental costs, being in this case even in an area that is largely protected by integration into the National Ecological Reserve, by having connections with surface water, water of occurrence and groundwater, by being on the verge of permanent housing, as indeed Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP's Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to witness, in a delegation of the party that visited the area, precisely in solidarity with the struggle of the populations, in April 2014. Therefore, all of this, in this particular case, clearly converges so that various principles of protection of the populations are applied, respecting their struggle, their concerns and, above all, in this case, the principle of caution, taking into account the dangers that this exploitation may entail, rather than even for the well-being of those populations. We stress the impact that the struggle of the populations of Bonitos has been having on this process. It is true that the parliamentary groups questioned the Government, that the CFP questioned the Government, but on the part of the Government there was no response to the CFP Parliamentary Group. But it is also true that the process has not been as many as they wanted, because the populations have been engaged in a decisive struggle. What is asked today to the Assembly of the Republic is that you give your hand to this struggle of the people, respect their concerns and their well-being and consolidate this victory to stop the extraction of caulinas in Soure, which has so far come to be temporary, making it a prolonged victory in time, which ensures the well-being of the populations and respect for their struggle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I begin by greeting the petitioners and also wish to address a very special greeting to the Committee on the Fight against the Exploration of Caulino de Bonitos, which, I believe, integrates people who, in a very genuine and very dedicated way, have undertaken this struggle in order to defend their quality of life. However, this genuine participation of the populations is something extraordinarily important and we should value. On the other hand, the concern that this petition brings to the Assembly of the Republic is precisely the intention to exploit caulino in the area of Bonitos, which covers the parish of Soure and Redinha, in the councils of Soure and Pombal. As mentioned earlier, this is a particularly sensitive area, because we are talking about national ecological reserve, we are talking about a water-rich area and, in particular, supply to Soure and Pombal councils, which is not a minor thing. I would also like to tell the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members of the Greens have had the opportunity to travel to the place to try to perceive, live, those that are the concern of the people. However, with this journey to the site, we have created a very concrete perception of the reason for being these people's concerns. And we realize your concern about impacts that are visible to the naked eye. Thinking about what can be installed there and what is close to that whole area, we can automatically perceive the impacts on the level of noise, the circulation of trucks, the deterioration of the road network, the circulation and inhalation of dusts, the contamination of the cool sheets and the contamination of the soils, the alteration and destruction of the local landscape, the reduction of biodiversity, an effect on the agricultural and forestry activity and also the devaluement of the rustic and urban buildings. All this linked to what we all know as characteristic of the exploitation of caulinos. In view of this situation, what did the Greens understand to do? As we all know, petitions are not voted on. They are extremely important because they force the Assembly of the Republic to discuss matters, but they are not voted on. The Greens therefore decided to present a draft resolution that goes against what the petition calls for, so that, as the draft resolutions, they are voted on, all parliamentary groups are taking a decision on the subject matter of the petition by voting on the draft resolution. In addition, Mrs and Mrs. Members, The Greens want to make a commitment here because we believe that responses are needed by the government. There are others. Members here said that they asked written questions and that they could not get those answers. Because the Greens' commitment is that, as Mr Environment is expected to come to the Committee on the Environment on 17 June, the Greens will directly ask the Minister on this matter. at that meeting, The Greens will ask Mr Minister a direct question to get a concrete answer. Until then all parliamentary groups have the opportunity to join their voices to the people and to vote positively on the Greens draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u164	Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin my speech precisely because of the right to petition and this particular procedure. As we all know, this is a mechanism that allows people, populations to express their positions publicly, to disclose them and to raise awareness about their concerns. This is precisely what happened in the area of Bonitos with this issue of the Caulinas. It was a wide and long process, which we were able to follow in some of its steps, particularly in the collection of more than 4600 signatures, after which we promoted the proper hearing with all parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to hear their concerns. Also the outreach sessions that took place in the Pombal and Soure councils, in which I participated, in Almagreira, very competitive, allowed us to react and question the government about this subject in particular. On the other hand, they also introduced technical and scientific opinions on this subject, particularly with the contribution of Prof. Carlos Silva, a geographer conceptualized in the region, with a work done on the Sicó Lands, where the Soure and Pombal councils are inserted, and which alerted precisely to the risks and losses of this possible exploitation. In addition, I stress the meetings with the various entities and with the authorities. I would like to point out here that the local authorities, the parish councils and the municipal chambers of both councils have spoken in the same sense, so there is a broad political consensus in the territory or at least there is an opposition by the municipalities to this request for exploitation, this position which they have expressed and which is therefore also important for the debate and for the decision on this matter. As far as visits to the site are concerned, we — in particular, the honourable Members. Mr Maurício Marques, from the electoral circle of Coimbra, Fernando Marques, from the electoral circle of Leiria, and myself—we also went to the place, we were with the members of the committee of struggle, with autarchs, with the populations and we saw the land, the area of the applications for exploitation. So it was a long journey, which we also accompanied. Naturally, I would like to greet the petitioners who are in the galleries and have accompanied the work until this hour, greeting your enthusiasm and alertness. And we have also intervened in order to alert the competent authorities to this issue, because we believe that the interests of the people must be defended at all times. That is why, in this particular case, in the area of Bonitos, although the process is not completed, because there is still no decision by the Government — it is in the process of technical assessment — we argue that the consistent opposition of the population and the municipalities should be taken into account in the decision-making process. In addition, it is stressed that the guidance line established by the Ministry of the Environment is not to approve requests against the express will of the local population. And that is where we continue to be with the people, in solidarity with this petition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u166	Mr Jorge Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 429 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the initiative of the Commission on Combating the Exploration of Caulina — « Without Caulina we live, without quality of life no» —, in conjunction with draft resolutions 1461 / XII ( 4 ). a ), of the Left Block, 1465 / XII ( 4. a ), of the Portuguese Communist Party, and 1468 / XII ( 4. ( a ) of the Green Party. I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to congratulate the petitioners and congratulate them for taking up this act of citizenship, for bringing the concerns of the people they represent to the House of Democracy. This petition was signed by more than 4500 citizens, by defending the environment and its quality of life. Thank you very much for your participation, worthy of your experience in a state of democratic law. I would like to congratulate Mr Pedro Pimpão of the PSD on his work throughout this process as the author of the final report of this petition. I would like to congratulate you on the position taken in this report, saying:'Having listened to the concerns expressed by the petitioners and checked on the spot, this is a sensitive situation from the point of view of co-existence of caulino farms and dwellings, the rapporteur considers that he cannot fail to consider that he is exercising his parliamentary functions in the intransigent defence of the interests of the people. from which it cannot be in favour of any kind of exploitation which undermines the quality of life of people because, firstly, people must always be." This view was also shared by Mr Maurício Marques of the PSD, stressing that the PSD has already manifested itself against the exploitation of caulino within the city's executive body. The possibility of granting an area of 400 h of forest, where there are eight population agglomerations whose dwellings are at distances ranging between 50 and 500 m, is concerned. The increase in the risks of groundwater and, above all, surface water resources is also concerned by the location close to the Anços and Arunca rivers ( 350 m and 1100 m respectively). The possibility of this concession was already rejected by the municipality of Soure, through deliberations of the City Council and the Municipal Assembly, and of the Municipal Assembly of Pombal, held last February 18 of the current year, having been approved unanimously of the political forces represented ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP ) a motion of recommendation addressed to the Town Council of Pombal against this concession. The members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circles of Leiria and Coimbra directed, on 19 March 2014 and 8 April 2014, respectively, a set of questions to the Ministry of the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy on the said concession process. The answer, dated 12 May 2014, given by the Ministry of the Environment, is vague and does not respond to the issues presented and most problematic throughout this process. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been following this process with concern and has been committed to defending the quality of life of the affected populations. Policy only makes sense if it is done for the benefit of people's quality of life. For us, people are first. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for information from the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology dated 29 December 2014, submitted on 12 February 2014 the following complaints to this process: Assembly of Freguesia de Soure, Municipal Chamber of Soure, Board of Freguesia de Soure, Municipal Chamber of Pombal and Boards of Freguesia, Association of Defence of Cultural and Natural Heritage of Soure and Lusiaves — Industry and Trade Agro-Fooder, SA. Have these complaints been taken into account? Mainly, those directed by the local bodies of the municipalities of Soure and Pombal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u168	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u169	In our opinion, it is up to the municipalities, as representatives of the populations closest to them and their right to determine the balance necessary for economic and social development in their territory, to have a decisive participation throughout this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u170	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party believes that the process of granting forest land for the exploitation of caulinas should be suspended immediately and that any development of the land can only be carried out with the agreement of the local bodies of the municipalities of Soure and Pombal which are territorially covered by this concession. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u172	Mr Manuel Isaac has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 4641 petitioners who have signed this petition. It is not the first time that this theme of the exploitation of caulinos is discussed in plenary, which is understandable, given the relevant and significant environmental, social and economic impacts that are usually associated with this type of extractive industry and which normally generate contestation movements with the surrounding population. Today's discussion was spurred by petition No. 429 / XII ( 4. (a ) — « Without caulino we live, without quality of life», with 4641 signatures, submitted by the municipalities concerned and their populations, which contest the exploitation of caulinos in the designated area of Bonitos, located in Soure and Pombal, this petition which was joined by the initiatives of BE, PCP and Os Verdes. Recognizing as legitimate the concerns expressed by populations and authorities with this type of exploitation, particularly as regards the environmental and social impacts and the quality of life of people, it should be noted that these issues have been cautioned in the work of the Government. At this level, it should be noted that the position of the authorities is always weighted in the assessment of applications for the allocation of rights to exploit geological resources and taken into account in the final decision-making. It is a principle of this Ministry not to approve requests against the express will of the local population, particularly in cases where this population is already affected by extractive activity, as is the case. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u174	Despite the request concerning the area of Bonitos has not yet been referred for decision by the Government (it is at the stage of technical assessment), the position of the population and the municipalities will be taken into account in the decision-making process. The proposed Geological and Mineral Resources Bases Act itself, recently approved, provides for a greater involvement of municipalities in the procedure and ensures the compatibility of geological potential with the spatial planning and environmental and social protection—and this also responds to your concerns. Notwithstanding the above precautions, the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ( DGEG) shall always be responsible for carrying out the technical assessment of the request, collecting the relevant information for the decision and submitting the case to the decision of the Member of the responsible Government, together with its opinion. Only at the end of the procedure is that all the elements allowing the member of the Government to conclude on the referral or refusal of each application are gathered, and the suspension of the administrative procedure is not as possible, as suggested by initiatives. I mean, I also went to the place, I saw and I talked to people. What is true—and this is the great truth—is that people did not ask to end the exploitation of caulino. What people ask for, and very well, is quality of life. The area covered is very large, it is huge, and there is no need to exploit the populations, questioning their quality of life. That's what the people asked for. The projects that the PCP, the Left Block and The Greens present go further and are more radical in this matter. I don't think for one thing to survive, you don't have to kill another. There must be everyone's responsibility so that the people who live there can live under the conditions they require, and very well. What is true and great truth is that nature gives us resources that we have explored. It is also her that we live and people work in the sector and need the sector. But, as I say, for some to survive, it is not necessary to kill others. I am sure that the people are also attentive and that they will be convinced that this will be the final decision that this government will make for its life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u175	Mr Mauricio Marques, whom I would like to remind you that he has only five seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will use the five seconds I have to greet the people and reassure them. The PSD and CDS-PP did not need any petitions to safeguard the well-being of the populations, and that's what we're going to do. [[PS laughter.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member, Heloísa Apollonia.]] We are on the side of the population, we have cautioned them in the legislation we produced before. We have visited the extraction site ourselves and we will be, as we have always been, next to the populations. Although petitions are not voted on, they will not fail to be interpreted by us in the legitimate defence of populations, whether they make petitions or not, whether or not there are draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u177	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u178	We are here to defend the interests of the people regardless of the
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u179	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u180	So we ourselves have gone to the place, we will always be with the people, whether there are petitions or not. There are some parties that only go to places when there are draft resolutions and when there are petitions, but we are always next to the population, regardless of the circumstances. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u181	I really wish you could be next to the Rules of Procedure. [[Laughing.]] Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u182	Mr President, I would add that by now they could also be with the people, rather than just proclaim it. They should really be with acts and not just proclamations. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP initially asked for the floor to say that it seemed that there was a widespread concern among all the banks and that something else would not be expected if not a favourable vote on the draft resolutions submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u183	Let's see tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u184	And this issue persists, except for the position of the CDS, which left no doubt as to the distance it wants to take with respect to draft resolutions, even if it does not explain it. The draft resolution presented by the CFP is very explicit in this regard, recommending to the Government that it prevent any extractive kaolin activities in the area of the Bonitos, in Soure municipality. This is the area in question and it is the one that is worrying the people and therefore circumscribes the action of the Government to this area. If the CDS did not revert to it, it had the option to also present a draft resolution, but it did not. The PSD tells us that it has already been in favour of populations in the past. Well, we've seen it, ladies. Members, what it is for the PSD, lately, to legislate in favour of the people with regard to respect for their concerns. Anyway, what I feel really mattered was to know—and not to do as the PSD did, which was to devalue petitions... [[PSD protests.]] In fact, this last intervention by a PSD Member was able to destroy everything was said in the first, which had been a praise to the petitions and to the mobilization of the populations. Now he has come to say "for us, whether there are petitions or not. We always do what we want here, no matter if there are petitions». The PCP says exactly the opposite, that is, we value this petition. It is the result of the struggle of the populations, as it has been to stop the exploitation of caulinos. It is important to ensure that she continues to stop and not move forward. That's what we're going to vote for tomorrow. We needed to know how they voted for the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u185	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Fazenda, who still has 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u186	Mr. President, the 20 seconds are due. Neither the PSD nor the CDS presented any kind of diploma, but they came to tell us that they obtained guarantees from the government and central government entities. Now, what was important, at this time, to clarify the population and our clarification, was that they explained what guarantees were these, because it is not enough to proclaim, in general and abstract, that the government will be next to the people. We needed concrete guarantees. Will there be exploitation? Will there be no exploitation? Are you in a position to ensure that there is not even exploitation? That was today's question, and they failed it! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-21.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this debate. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: firstly, Bill No. 326 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity as well as the procedural regimes applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive 2009 / 138 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009. The assessment of Bill No. 328 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — regulates the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as a flag State or port, with a view to the fulfilment of mandatory provisions of the International Labour Organisation Maritime Convention, 2006, and transposes Council Directives 1999 / 63 / EC of 21 June 1999, 2009 / 13 / EC of 16 February 2009, 2012 / 35 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012, and 2013 / 54 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013. The draft resolutions Nos 1448 / XII will then be discussed ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the fundamental role of the Act through the opening of an invitation to tender for Labour Inspectors by complying with the ILO ( PS ) and 1475 / XII Conventions ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of inspectors, strengthening of means and valuing the role of ACT ( BE ). Fourthly, the joint debate on draft resolution No 1150 / XII ( 4 ) will be held. ( a ) — by the defence, development and public management of the TAP as a national flag airline ( CFP ), of petitions Nos 454 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Union of Civil Aviation Flight Personnel ( SNPVAC ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to suspend the privatisation process of TAP Portugal, SGPS, and 460 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Committee of TAP Workers — Manifesto against the privatisation of TAP, of draft resolutions Nos 1472 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Immediate cancellation of the privatisation process of TAP ( The Greens) and 1479 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by the defence of TAP ( PS ) and draft law No 902 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensure TAP as a public undertaking ( BE ). Fifthly, we will discuss draft resolutions Nos 1478 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by promoting personal autonomy / independent life of persons with disabilities ( BE) and 1471 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates a pilot programme for a « Independent Life Support scheme » for people with aggravated disabilities ( PCP ). Finally, we will proceed to the evaluation of Bill No. 957 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ). in the end, there will be a regiment vote. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]]
