ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 39 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1570 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government support the candidature of the Sanctuary of the Good Jesus of the Mount to the World Heritage Site of UNESCO ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 1571 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government classify the Sanctuary of the Good Jesus of the Mount as a property of national interest, recognizing it as the National Monument ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which is equally low to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u3	Before we start the work, I wanted to remind you. Members in Chamber D. Maria runs, until 1 p.m., the election of a judge to the Constitutional Court, Chamber which Mr Duarte Pacheco informs me is already open. I'll take care of going to vote in the middle of the morning too. Mrs. Members, we turn to the first item on the agenda, which is contained in the debate of the report of the X Committee of Inquiry into the Camarat Tragedy, together with draft resolutions 1554 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open an investigation to clarify the disappearance of the EMGFA, MDN and MNE archives of the official correspondence between these bodies with reference to the export of war material to Iran ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) and 1555 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the documentary collection of the Ultramar Military Defence Fund and the creation of the Camarate file, digitized and made available online on the Parliament's website ( PSD, PS, and CDS-PP ). First of all, I shall give the floor to the Chairman of the X Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Tragedy of Camarate, Mr José de Matos Rosa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u4	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: I begin by saying a heartfelt thank you to all the Members and Representatives of the Families of the Victims who participated actively in the work of this X Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Tragedy of Camarte and with whom I had the honour to share this mission as President. I would like to thank everyone for their commitment and dedication to the work of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry and, above all, thank you for the genuine search for the truth with which they guided the generality of the interventions, regardless of the political ideas of each one. It was a sign of political maturity and democratic responsibility that all of us honour. My thanks to all of you. We are well aware that the investigation into the causes and circumstances of the death of Prime Minister Francisco Sá Carneiro, the Minister of Defence Adelino Amaro da Costa, escorts and pilots, inevitably raises natural difficulties in the clearance of all facts and their interpretation. The existence of nine previous committees of inquiry, over these nearly four decades that have passed since the tragedy, well reflects the sensitivity of this subject and the difficulties in finding clear lines of research. however, it was proven that the fall of the plane, on the night of 4 December 1980, was due to the attack. for my part, I reaffirm that we, Social Democrats, feel this responsibility well, feel more urgency of the truth, insofar as it is the founder of our party and our leader in office, at the date of the tragedy. But I am convinced that we have been able to fully respect the fulfilment of the mandate given to us by the people and that it requires us to put aside natural emotions and focus on seeking the truth. I believe that the work of the X Committee of Inquiry into the Camarat Tragedy represents a good example of the quality of the work carried out by all Members of this House of Democracy and a good example of a correct interpretation of the powers conferred on the Assembly of the Republic as a sovereign body, regardless of the partisan colors of each of us. Mr President, with all due respect for the institutions, let me therefore highlight the work of all Members who have exercised their political responsibilities in this Committee of Inquiry without questioning the separation of powers, thus respecting the Constitution and the rule of law, through a final report, that we can be proud of and for which I congratulate your rapporteur, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos. I would also like to highlight the contribution made to the work of this Committee of the Representatives of the Victims'Families. Yes, we fulfil our parliamentary mandate with high rigour and sense of responsibility, respecting constitutional powers. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members : I would also like to thank those other people who have contributed to the work of the X Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry into the Tragedy of Camarate : specialists, advisers and officials ( Alexandra Pereira da Graça, Francisco Alves, Anabela Santos, Helena Reis Alves, Rosa Oliveira, Isabel Barral and Isabel Campos and many others who work in this House) who have been exemplary throughout the Commission's working time in creating all the conditions for Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen were doing their job correctly. Finally, I also leave a clear word of solidarity to the families of the victims, in the belief that the conclusions of this X Committee of Inquiry into the Camartan Tragedy can allow this time to go further in the discovery of the truth than justice has ever succeeded. It is, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth can't and will never prescribe! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u5	Mr Matos Rosa, I thank you for your work, as well as all of you. Members who spoke in this Commission. The rapporteur, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, to whom I would also thank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission was created, many people thought and said: « Again », « why? », « plus one ». at the end of this Parliamentary Inquiry Committee, I can say that we discovered new facts, we confirmed others, increased perplexity. If it is true that it was not possible to know who committed the crime of Camarte, who killed Sá Carneiro, Adelino Amaro da Costa and his companions and who ordered to kill, if it is equally true that a causal link has not been established, it is also true, as I said, that it has advanced and that this Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry has had a lot of use. I would now like to state a few facts. Before I clarify the honourable Members. Members we have tried to follow two directions: the Ultramar Military Defense Fund ( UDF ) and the sale of weapons to Iran. As for the first one, we were able to ensure that the Ultramar Military Defence Fund formally expired in November 1980, another fund ( the Private Fund of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces ) which was in operation until 1993, without much scrutiny, without approved accounts and which, as a fund without revenue, spent nearly 500 million shields ( today, more than 26 million euros ), without the approval of the expenditure contained in the documents. For example, this Fund allegedly supported the construction of a sports flag, without the auditors of the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ), which audited this Fund in depth and at the request of this Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, they have been able to realise that this is the flag. The final balance of the Fund in 1993, which was repeated at the beginning over EUR 26 million, was only €245 000. It has been proven that Adelino Amaro da Costa, in addition to being concerned about the Ultramar Military Defense Fund, refused to export arms to several countries in 1980, in particular Argentina, Guatemala and Indonesia. Two days before the attack by Camarate, he requested information from the Armed Forces Major-General State on arms sales news to Iran, because he was in force a commercial embargo to that country. Five days after the murder of Camarte, weapons were dispatched to Iran, violating that embargo. New expedition took place in January 1981. It has been shown that public bodies have lost the documents relating to these expeditions, consisting only of their correspondence register books. There was a brutal increase in the turnover of arms companies in the 1980s and 1981s, particularly the Explosives company of Trafaria. Although such a embargo exists for Iran, Portuguese arms companies have not received any formal communication to avoid selling weapons for that country. Another matter which has been very attached to this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry had to do with the death of José Moreira and Elisabete Silva. We have stated with high confidence that these two people were killed in January 1983. One of these victims, José Moreira, came to testify, a few days after his death, to the Parliamentary Commission of Comrade of Comrade. The Portuguese court concluded, at the time, and quickly, that it was an accident. New examinations were made after death to these two victims, at the request of this Parliamentary Commission, experts in Legal Medicine were heard and no doubt remained in this Commission that João Moreira and Elizabeth Silva did not die by accident. We have also verified that, even though a disciplinary investigation has been opened to establish responsibilities in the judicial investigation of these two deaths and also in the Comrade process, and even though the shortcomings, contradictions and omissions, are already evident at that time. Prosecutors concluded that nothing was to be pointed out. We have heard in this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry the officers of the judicial police involved, the prosecutors who conducted the disciplinary procedure and the best word I can find to classify these hearings is the word « lamentable». It is regrettable to perceive the weaknesses in all these investigations. I can't believe this happened because of any kind of coercion. Another fact that impressed us had to do with the conduct of RTP. After the hearing of a journalist, Diana Andinga (the first journalist to arrive at Camarte ), and after telling us that her piece disappeared the following day in the afternoon, this Parliamentary Commission decided to request the raw images of all Camarte films. RTP did not want to send them (assuming the prescription of the crime of Camarte, the freedom of the press and not want to reveal their sources of information ), so we had to appeal to the Court of Relations — we won. RTP has appealed to the Supreme Court — we have won again. And when we get the images, we realize that these same images are clearly insufficient. In fact, just do a little research on YouTube to realize that there are or have been many more. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the long months of hearings, we heard many « I don't remember». We have heard many 'I don't remember' people who signed documents, who produced reports. We didn't find the causality link, but we moved on. in the military funds, in the sale of weapons to Iran, in the crimes of José Moreira and Elisabete Silva, and we perceive, in a very precise way, the slight way in which the Administration and the Justice dealt with these cases. As I mentioned in the report, I can hardly accept that this has happened for mere neglect, such were the gross mistakes. Many people failed and were not held accountable; and there was also a lot of lack of critical sense. The time and memory invoked by many people who were heard in the Parliamentary Commission did not allow us to go further. But contrary to the so-called by many, time will not allow itself to be erased from the memory of all of us that Francisco Sá Carneiro, Adelino Amaro da Costa and his companions were killed on the night of December 4, 1980. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I consider it very important to recommend that all parliamentary committees of inquiry should be placed on Parliament's site. All these perplexities and incongruences will be well understood by those who consult you. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the commitment of all parties, the President of the Commission, the officials of the House and the representatives of the victims'families in the work of our Committee of Inquiry. I think we have prestigious Parliament. Who knows if one day, at another time, someone can bring us to memory what led to these crimes being committed. Families deserve that, the country demands that it be. Thank you all very much. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u7	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, thank you very much for your work. Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by greeting the President and the Rapporteur of the X Committee of Inquiry into the Camarate Tragedy for the work done and for the effort made. Secondly, we want to say that there are two aspects in the report that deserve our criticism and justify our abstention. Before we turn to criticism, we find that much of the report is inconclusive. Thus, the CFP was right when it abstained from the creation of the new Parliamentary Inquiry Commission. It was not possible to establish a causal link between the Ultramar Military Defense Fund and the Camarte tragedy. However, investigations into this Ultramar Military Defense Fund proved — and this is relevant — that Portugal was used by the United States of America and Israel as a platform for selling weapons to Iran during the year 1980, when the international embargo on Iran was in force due to the so-called « hostage crisis ». This is not mentioned in the report, but it is important, for future memory, to mention that the United States and Israel were an embargo which they themselves promoted due to the taking of American hostages in the State of Iran. It was also stated in the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission that this Ultramar Military Defense Fund was used to finance UNITA during the Angolan civil war, but this remains only for historical memory. It was proven that the Minister of Defence Adelino Amaro da Costa prevented any sale of weapons to Iran and that five days after the tragedy of Camarate, the sale of weapons to Iran continued under the protection of the AD Government, PSD / CDS-PP. Finally, there are two criticisms to this report. First: the CFP considers the criticisms made to the Judicial Police and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, concerning an investigation and disciplinary process carried out over 30 years ago, completely distorted and unjustified. More: the Commission's report makes statements and draws tax conclusions on the death of one of the witnesses and his wife who are manifestly inadequate, with insufficient support. in this part, the conclusions of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry did not lend the Assembly of the Republic, did not lend the parliamentary committees of inquiry. The second aspect that deserves our criticism is the following: the X Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry into the Camarat Tragedy is proposed by PSD and CDS due to the existence of witnesses who claim to have committed the attack. These witnesses consistently claim that the attack they committed was ordered by the United States of America, the CIA, because of the sale of weapons to Iran and attempts to prevent the same sales and was carried out by elements linked to the CIA and CODECO (Operational Defense Commands of Western Civilization ), the terrorist organization linked to the most reactionary right that it operated in Portugal after 25 April and which was dedicated, inter alia, to putting bombs on the Portuguese Communist Party's work centres. We can agree that there are no other elements that prove this theory. What we strangely and criticise is the fact that the PSD and the CDS, in this matter, omit the conclusions — and the conclusions are important — that the CIA and the Embassy of the United States of America have not cooperated with the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u9	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u10	I recall that, on the useful, legitimate, important and consensual initiative of the CDS-PP, the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission asked the CIA for information on a group of people and the CIA and the Government of the United States of America deliberately failed to respond, did not cooperate. However, to omit this information from the conclusions of the Final Report of the X Committee of Inquiry into the Camarat Tragedy demonstrates the degree of subservience that PSD and CDS-PP have in their end not very faithful friend United States of America. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u11	The 11th Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry must be the CIA!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u12	Mr Miguel Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fateful night of 4 December 1980 is forever, tragically and indelible, marked in the history of Portugal. This evening, which remains in the living memory of most Portuguese people or already integrates the historical memory of the younger ones, shook a Nation shocked with the death of Prime Minister Dr. Francisco Sá Carneiro, the Minister of Defense Eng.o Adelino Amaro da Costa, his companions, Snu Abecassis, Maria Manuel Silva Pires, António Patrício Gouveia and the two pilots of the apparatus, Jorge Albuquerque and Alfredo Sousa. Nothing would prevent such an event that, like any tragic event, is unpredictable, but the brutality of the occurrence and the shock that caused a country in mourning and amputated by two politicians noted for its capacity and courage of government intervention. For the country, for generations to come and for its political parties, they left a legacy of example, honesty and commitment in terms of unwarranted principles for current conveniences. They attached to the country the priority of the nation's best interests in the face of particular interests or partisans. Accident or attack? The question remained for decades in the recent history of Portugal, filled pages of newspapers and books and impressed the mind and spirit of the Portuguese. During the work of the X Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, natural considerations remained regarding the purpose, the opportunity, the meaning of another committee of inquiry to Camarte, which was the X Commission, one more, following so many earlier ones. What becomes undeniable is that much of the truth of events would still be covered if the successive committees of inquiry had not carried out their work. The findings which have not been reached in the judicial forum have been proved in the various committees of inquiry, with particular emphasis on the conclusions of VII, VIII and X, as regards the proof that the fall of the aircraft was due to an attack carried out with the aim of distancing the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence from the performance of his duties in the conduct of the national destinations. The X Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, to which several Members, representatives of the victims' families, advisers of their parliamentary groups and the technical body of the Assembly, have dedicated themselves, essentially and in a proven manner, that the Ultramar Military Defense Fund, which was intended to discharge charges from the Portuguese military forces overseas, continued to be used in an unexplained and unjustified manner until 1993, at which time it finally integrated the General State Account. In 1980, in the previous years and in the following years, Portugal was an arms export platform and the government led by Dr. Francisco Sá Carneiro did not authorize an application for arms export to Iran, a country with which Portugal had cut off any commercial relationship. Five days after the attack on 9 December and later on 26 January 1981, the export of weapons to the country concerned was made clear. The Minister of Defence's concern was expressed about the irregularities in the operation of the Ultramar Military Defence Fund and arms trafficking in Portugal. Eng.o José Moreira, considered as an important witness to the First Committee of Inquiry, was found dead, along with his companion on 5 January 1981, thus not carrying out his testimony. at the time, the Judicial Police and the Public Ministry concluded that they had dealt with an accidental death in nothing related to the attack of Camarate. The work of the X Committee of Inquiry showed that it was effectively a double murder and that the criminal police bodies, unjustifiedly, did not deal with the case with the diligence and efficiency that were required. Access to the full scope of the images collected by RTP on the night of 4 December was hampered by the X Committee of Inquiry and, when it was finally made available, the substantial disappearance of the images was confirmed. These and most notable conclusions did not allow a proven causal link with the attack by Camarte. I believe that this is the end of the line which stands up and which is hampered by the passing of time, due to the unfortunately selective memory of some of the applicants in the work of the X Commission, the lack of knowledge that statements of unidentified persons could bring, to the impossibility of locating certain persons duly identified as relevant to the clarification of the truth and the difficulty of access to documents considered necessary by the Commission and which, for various reasons, have not been made available. at the end of the work, they understood the PSD, the PS and the CDS-PP to propose to this House the adoption of the following recommendations: the safeguarding of the documentary acquis of the Ultramar Military Defence Fund and the creation of a complete archive on Camarate, digitized, containing all the documentary espolio and the online placement on the Parliament's website for general public access; the opening of an investigation by the Government to establish the disappearance of the archives of the Armed Forces Major-General State, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the cross-border official correspondence between these three bodies with reference to the export of war material to Iran.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u14	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u15	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is precisely, and finally, to recognize the spirit of cooperation and dedication of the various parliamentary groups, of the Chairman of the X Committee of Inquiry, Mr José Matos Rosa, of the advisers of the most involved parliamentary groups and of the technical body of the Assembly which supported the work and which allowed a positive concentration on essential and fundamental issues. All have spent long hours of study and analysis and certainly share with me and my colleagues in the PSD Parliamentary Group a feeling of duty. Francisco Sá Carneiro, Adelino Amaro da Costa and the other victims will remain forever in our memory and history of Portugal. This is a legacy that no one can erase. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u16	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The X Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry into the Tragedy of Comrade concluded with the conclusions already known to all, and it is our duty above all to stress the role played by Mr Matos Rosa in this Commission by the way he conducted the work. I begin precisely by referring to the work of the President of this Commission to say that everything that was possible by this Commission has been done until exhaustion. We tried to hear all the people, all the versions, and we tried to exhaust all the possibilities that were put before the Commission on the issue of Camarate, and we were certainly starting from the previous conclusions and, therefore, we were linked to them, so we tried to verify what had happened with the Overseas Military Defense Fund and with the arms trade. I therefore believe that, Madam President, without wishing to withdraw the legitimacy of this Parliament as a sovereign body, that this Parliament has already made its contribution to the tragedy of Camarate and that the best tribute it can pay to the history of our democracy is precisely to place on the website of Parliament the whole of the spoil, so that it will be accessible to all citizens. Despite all the issues raised throughout the Committee of Inquiry concerning the Overseas Military Defence Fund and arms trafficking, it cannot fail to mention the fact that we have not yet wanted to write the story about these years of our democracy. We have contributed, but I believe this Parliament will not be writing the last chapters of history about what happened in the 1980s. I must point out that the X Commission has encountered difficulties in investigating the tragedy itself and in the death of José Moreira and Elisabete Silva as well as difficulties at other levels. We also sought to mirror in this report the political moment that was at that time so that we could have an idea of Portugal in the 1980s, those troubled years in which we were at the beginning of a constitutional review process, at which we were on the eve of presidential elections, at which there was still the Council of the Revolution—and their relations with the Ministry of Defence were not fully clarified—and in which there was still a troubled moment of stabilization of our democracy. It is in this political context that a framework must be made so that we can understand the facts that have been established in this Commission and those which have not been established. The Socialist Party, throughout this Committee of Inquiry, sought to understand why not only judicial authorities but also political authorities of the time left such relevant issues as arms trafficking and the Overseas Military Defense Fund not clarified at the appropriate time. The historical context also explains it and we cannot forget it in this Commission. On behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to thank not only the families of the victims, who have made a fundamental contribution and were the driving force behind many initiatives taken in this Commission, but also the commitment of all political parties to reach these conclusions and, of course, I would like to say a word to the officials, who were inexhaustible in the search for contacts so that a set of hearings could be possible. Mr President, I believe that we are finishing our work with the awareness that, possibly, this Parliament has exhausted its ability to deal with the tragedy of Comrade, but, as I have already said, I believe it will still be early to close this chapter of our history, which one day others will write. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u18	Mr José Ribeiro and Mr Castro have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CDS, Comrade was a judicial error. Better, there were two judicial errors, that of Camarate and that of Carnaxide, since we could confirm that also the two Carnaxide crimes, the death of José Moreira and Elizabeth Silva, were unclarified murders and possibly connected to the crime of Camarate. It is not only a judicial error when there is only an unfair, unfounded condemnation; it is also a judicial error when the criminal escapes from our eyes. And Comrade is, until today, like the perfect crime. An accident simulation was made at the takeoff and the perpetrators of the attack — the murderers of Francisco Sá Carneiro, Adelino Amaro da Costa and those who flew with them — escaped to Portuguese justice. The last judicial decision on this matter, a judgment in the report of the early 1990s, drew a disturbing conclusion: he said it was neither an accident nor an attack. Therefore, it would be possible to deduce that, perhaps, the plane did not fall, it was still going to fly, and that it was not an accident, nor an attack. And justice stopped there. At the Strasbourg Court, where the families of the victims deduced a complaint on grounds of denial of justice by the Portuguese State, he defended himself before the Court, not with Portuguese justice, but with Parliament. The Portuguese state defended itself in Strasbourg saying it is not true that the state has not done anything, because Parliament has done so much. This says a lot about the long procession of this process. in the failures of justice, the judicial police and the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, there are gross, decisive errors for the evolution of the process and which have been reported since the first Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I am now stating some serious and decisive moments. First: the case of Lee Rodrigues, who was arrested twice—in 1981 and 1984/85—in the Portuguese courts and twice the court let him out after minor accusations, not by the fingers of his hand, but by the fingers of both hands. Lee Rodrigues is a dangerous international agent, referred to. We were able to confirm by indirect testimony, either in the 8th Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry or again now that he has prepared and committed the attack. We couldn't hear him. Your whereabouts are unknown. Then, in 1995, when the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, then the V, again concluded, with a turning point, by the attack at that time which was decisive in the judicial proceedings, the Public Prosecutor, instead of adhering to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry and proceeding with the accusation, pushed these conclusions away, insisted on the original error and did not deduce any accusation. The families were thus sentenced to present, in a record time, a particular charge for the process not to prescribe everything on this 4 December 1995. A sad note in this process was that they had to be the families, several times, explaining to the State why they killed their ministers instead of being the state explaining to their families because they had killed their children. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry had the opportunity to hear statements by alleged perpetrators of the attack which are highly disturbing. These statements have a very limited value because they are manifestly intoxicated in our appreciation, as always happens when there is a passage of time on the facts they relate, as always happens when people mix facts and interpretations and as always happens when it is visible that people, by saying interesting things, are not saying that classical formula «just the truth, all the truth, nothing but the truth». But these statements, and the synthesis made in the report is correct, so that they can be evaluated. It is that they add data that are important and, together with other statements, allow the assumption that the cell phone of this attack has to do with the Irangate, the scandal that was discovered in the United States of America and that was long investigated at the Congress. As is the case in democratic countries, these investigations were carried out openly, and we know that Iran-Contragate was investigated and later Iran-Contragate. Eventually, another scandal known as OctoberSurprise was crossed with this process. Therefore, it is particularly regrettable, and the CDS also laments it, that the United States of America has no more actively collaborated in this investigation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u20	More actively? You've collaborated zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u21	... providing elements of the CIA, to confirm or to deny charges that have been made, and bringing elements from its archives to clarify this assumption, which has been exposed to trafficking, from weapons to Iran. We regret this and hope that the future will bring some light on this matter. Finally, I wanted to leave some thanks. First of all, the rapporteur, by the very balanced and extensive way in which he managed to compile work in quite broad areas of the survey ; secondly, the President of the Commission, by the way he conducted the work ; thirdly, all those who over the years have devoted themselves to this matter, in particular Augusto Cid, by pioneering dedication, by tireless dedication, by non-conformist dedication in seeking to clarify the truth of this case which has so much shaken the country. Surely some of the works of Augusto Cid will have mistakes, as I also made mistakes, and we all make mistakes. But there is a mistake he never made: the one of indifference. Often, throughout this process, it was necessary to walk to the dark, not because it was night, but because there were people who entertained themselves, entertained, entertained, to extinguish the light and even to provoke eclipses in this process! The last eclipse was the disappearance of documents from the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Staff of the Armed Forces on correspondence regarding arms trade for Iran.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u22	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u23	The draft resolutions that we are going to vote on on this particular issue are very important. I hope that the clarification of this case will finally be brought to the eyes of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u24	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful again to all those who spoke in the debate, namely the President, the Rapporteur and the Members of the Committee of Inquiry into the Camarat Tragedy. We move on to the next item on our agenda, which is generally discussed in the draft law No 333 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January approving the status of staff in charge of the services and bodies of the central, regional and local administration of the State, and the second amendment to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December amending the procedures for recruitment, selection and provision in the senior management positions of the Public Administration. I would like to congratulate Mr President of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and the Secretary of State for Public Administration. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary-General State of Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic this proposal for a law which inserts the need to introduce some improvements which the Government has deemed desirable after about three years of the new regime for the recruitment of senior executive positions of the Public Administration, introduced at the end of 2011. in the current government programme, the introduction of an independent recruitment mechanism for senior management. Of course there are many possible processes and mechanisms for this purpose, but the Government has made this commitment in its programme and has immediately implemented it with the approval of the bill which has led to Law No 64 / 2011. This mechanism is innovative and it was with it that it was intended to minimize the risks of politicization of appointments, create conditions for recruitment to follow a procedure conducted by an independent government entity. Therefore, this scheme introduced at the end of 2011 has already been implemented for three years and, of course, after those three years, it is necessary, without prejudice to the maintenance of the system, which is not at issue, to introduce some improvements which the experience advises. By the way, the ladies and gentlemen. Members will be reminded that the President himself ( Committee on Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ), in public intervention, in particular in this House of the Republic, he himself indicated some suggestions that seemed to him to be relevant to this matter, suggestions that the Government has considered, made its own reflection, made its own assessment and that evaluation resulted in this bill. Like the ladies. Members bear in mind, this bill involves some amendments. I will not necessarily make a full statement here of the proposed amendments — Mr President. Members know them well, but I will draw attention to some points which seem to me to be more important or more significant. The first point has to do with any redefinition or redistribution of competences between the CRESAP itself, the independent body with this legal competence, and the member of the competent Government with regard to the definition of the profile of competences to be considered for candidates for the post of tendering. This redistribution, in the Government's perspective, involves a better balance of this situation. Therefore, the CRESAP will make a proposal, the member of the Government, when opening the invitation to tender, gives general indications on those who are the competences it deems necessary for the candidates in charge, characterises what it intends and the main responsibilities it sees in that position, sets out its letter of mission and, following this request, CRESAP shall draw up a proposal for a profile of competence. This function is more technical, well suited to CRESAP and the member of the Government will always have, in addition to this first information that it transmits to CRESAP, the possibility to accept or not this profile of competence proposed by CRESAP. So this is a re-finding mechanism that seems very positive to us. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u26	Please finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u27	On the other hand, a 45-day deadline is also established for the member of the Government to make his or her choice among the candidates submitted by CRESAP. Thus, from the short list submitted by CRESAP the member of the Government will have the deadline of 45 working days for that purpose, the amendment, which is also credible by the circumstances of possible replacement appointments will expire at the end of that period and thus not allowing the legal deadline to be exceeded. There are a few more relevant aspects, but I think these are the essential ones. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u28	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this bill, the PSD/CDS Government maintains an ambush that the so-called CRESAP, the Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration, represents. The PSD/CDS Government insists that CRESAP is the guarantor of transparency and exemption in the choice of public administration leaders and that guarantees choice for merit. however, reality demonstrates the opposite. The reality shows that PSD and CDS, as well as PS in the past, continue to choose, for senior positions, depending on the color of the card and not on merit. The subjective criteria in interviews, such as evaluation of leadership capacity and others, are the door for the government to choose who from the beginning wanted to choose. In fact, Mr Secretary of State, the CCP, in the hearing with the President of CRESAP, has demonstrated it. For example, in the context of social security, from north to south, can start in Viana and stop in the Algarve and quickly conclude that those chosen by merit are all candidates to municipal chambers or to the Assembly of the Republic or the CDS, now the PSD...! It is true that they are more than CDS than PSD, but this will be idiosyncrasies of the ministry of social security itself! The truth is that, in relation to social security, for the National Council, the three finalists who emerged from merit are all of the PSD and CDS-PP, demonstrating that this does not pass from a deep hypocrisy and that we continue to choose, for senior leadership positions, depending on the party card! We do not align ourselves with hypocrisy and this bill does not solve any of the existing problems; it aims to overcome obstacles that exist to keep everything in it. In fact, this diploma does not solve the problem of distortion in the competition by means of the replacement scheme, which gives an illegitimate advantage to those whom the Government chooses to replace the leader; as I said, it does not eliminate subjective criteria in the interviews of leadership capacity; it reduces the number of years of graduation needed to be a candidate; it facilitates the choice by the government member when the contest is desert. The CFP believes that no appointment posts should be restricted to the maximum and that they should be chosen in cases where there is a need for political confidence. As we have said in the past, it makes sense to appoint the president of an ARS, a regional health administration, but no longer makes sense to appoint an administrator of a hospital, which must be chosen by public contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u31	Now, we want to point out that the PSD and CDS-PP maintain the problem, because instead of restricting the number of appointments to those places that are trusted, they keep the appointment as a rule for places that should not be chosen by way of appointment. More: we want to point out that the PSD and CDS-PP keep the appointment time of five renewable years, when it should be referred to a appointment that would last the time of the government's term of office and so we would be transparent, that is, while the government was in office that appointed to perform the duties and then, with the termination of the government's duties, it would also cease to exercise them. However, the PSD and the CDS never wanted rigor, transparency and competence in the Public Administration. The reality is that they have left this legislative initiative for the last possible plenary to approve such legislation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u32	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I am sorry, Mr Secretary of State of the Public Administration, but what brings us here is not exactly a bill, but more a cosmetic operation, because in what is essential, in the clarity and transparency of the process, you did not move. It is clear that this proposal has positive aspects and has mentioned them, in particular the fact that it determines a 45-day deadline for final appointments, avoiding scandals such as those that occurred recently with the Director-General of the Arts, who was appointed one year ago as a replacement regime and the Secretary of State had in his drawer a year ago the short list and resisted until the last hour finally appointing who was suggested in the short list. More: we can talk about the Secretary-General of the National Education Council, for which a list has been available two years and for two years that is not made permanent appointment, and now this diploma solves this problem by setting the 45-day deadline ; access to the tender documentation in part answers to the questions raised by the Ombudsman, but does not answer in full ; the question of redefining the competences in the definition of the profile will resolve at least in part the problem of having seen 50 % of the profiles reviewed by CRESAP, such was the detail of the photograph that the government member wanted to appoint...! But this diploma does not solve the essential and does not solve it in another sphere: in appointments. And this is where clarity has to be introduced in the process and here this bill fails and has no effect, Mr Secretary of State. What happens is that you have created CRESAP, at the end of this year we will spend EUR 2 million on its operation, hundreds of competitive processes have been done, but ultimately 94 bodies from different ministries and 213 appointments, in a random choice of the bodies, which is that 75% of the appointments are people of the PSD or CDS - 50% of people linked to the PSD or close to the PSD and 25% of people linked to the CDS or close to the CDS. Well, what does this prove? It shows that for a competitive process aimed at disparting the public administration machine... well, Mr. Secretary of State, you have to clarify what this is! This is exactly what Professor Bilhim tells us about such appointments, already mentioned here, for social security. Prof. Bilhim very well explains that a list of three names, where there are candidates representing the diversity in the picture universe in Portugal, the member of the government chooses only those of his party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u34	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u35	Who says this, Mr. Secretary of State, is Prof. João Bilhim. But there is another problem, Mr Secretary of State : these people have been appointed politically, appointments have been delayed, they have been delayed to the maximum keeping people in bond of appointment of replacement and are now being appointed at the last hour and will remain in office for five years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u36	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u37	... a mandate not only exceeding the mandate of the Secretary of State and of this Government, but also risking much exceeding the mandate of the next government, entering even a third government. So the majority captures the public administration machine and, through their co-religionaries, maintains control of the public administration. This is the effect of this law! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u38	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very long agenda with a very large list of votes, so I would ask you to make an effort to respect the times, otherwise the session is extended until very late. For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u39	Mr. President, I will try to keep up with the time available. I would like to point out, as a first note, that the reason for the Socialist Party's aversion to CRESAP and the competitive method is clear. It has just been said by Mrs Isabel Santos. The competitive method and the rigorous selection of candidates is worrying PS because it has lost control of the state's administrative machine.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u40	Sure! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u41	The honourable Member has said it now, and that is all for us, is a cause for joy! More: I would like to say that, over the past three years, a balance sheet has to be made, which must be positive, of this law and this amendment aims, detecting what is not perfect, detecting what is likely to be corrected, correct. On the other hand, I would like to point out an essential point which was the criticism made of the replacement appointments and the obligation, which this amendment is imposing, of the Government, within a maximum of 45 days, to have to provide and who is in replacement arrangements falls if that provision is not made. One thing is certain: with this method, it does not result from what happened before —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u42	Previously, there was clarity! There was transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u43	... and I saw him in the previous Parliament —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u44	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u45	... i.e. tens and tens and dozens of nominated by the Socialist Government for positions of the Public Administration which had only two characteristics in common,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u46	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u47	... and this was seen throughout the whole country, from north to south: one, in the last elections they had all been losing candidates for the Socialist Party; another, they all had the militant card of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u48	You can't talk. The CDS did the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u49	...and it was not by competitive procedure, it was by direct appointment. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Santos.]] in this case, we have a competitive procedure, we have three candidates and it is among those chosen by the minister. Fundamentally, even to end with suspicion, is that there is an amendment, that no one is focusing on, but that, for me, is the touchstone, which is the introduction of automatic registration in the contest of the directors of charges below that which is being provided. For what? To create an elite school within the Public Administration, to create careers, so that the public administration itself has the opportunity and the possibility to progress, creating constance, creating stability, creating continuity and returning to the Public Administration and to its direction what has been lost with the Socialist Party for many years, creating a school itself and no longer being a place for jobs and boys or, in other regimes, for apparatchiks and dachas near the lake. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the most part, they have created a body that costs the state about two million euros a year and the result is the same as we had in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u53	In 213 appointments, 75 % are PSD, 25 % are CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u54	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u55	There are many examples, but I will only give one that makes very clear the method of transparency of this selection: in September 2014, a contest for the Directorate-General of Consumers. Candidates hurried, among them, Maria Teresa of Piedade Moreira. People who composed the jury, among them, Maria Ermelinda Paulo Rodrigues da Silva Carajás. In November 2014, another competition for the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Economics; candidates approved in the short list : Maria Ermelinda da Silva Carajás ; one of the members of the jury, Maria Teresa da Piedade Morais. There was only one trade here! That is, in September, with a certain person in the jury, there is a person who is appointed; in November, they exchange places and everything remains in the same. If this is transparency, then I do not know what will be opacity, Mr. Secretary of State. On the other hand, in 2011 when they created this law, it is curious that many organisms have left out, purposely, in particular in the area of health. You know that, because we did the criticism at the time. And for what? To allow, yes, to give the party seats. The same thing happened in social security. Therefore, what is happening here is a certain misleading publicity, there is no transparency and now, with this amendment, there are still more competences given to CRESAP — the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration, and there are competences on which we have the greatest doubts, for example in Article 11. o — Confirmation of competences with respect to candidates. There are things that leave us very much to wish for. CRESAP can do a research on everything that concerns candidates and, therefore, is now with a lot more powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u56	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u57	I conclude, Mr President, by saying something else: at the moment, we have 15 people who are part of the CRESAP and then we have another 44 people in an expert stock exchange. This law has created more places, because there are members who, instead of having an alternate, have two.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u58	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u59	That is to say, two million euros a year will not arrive and there will be an increase in expenditure when so many sacrifices are requested from pensioners and Portuguese workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I have listened very carefully to the statement by the Secretary of State, as well as to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me say here, in a balance sheet style, that what was being done earlier, by the way, was what pleased the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the opposition parties. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In the past, political appointments were criticized... [[Say it right! It's true! Political appointments!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u62	... they criticize today because money is spent, because it is not transparent, because people of the parties who are in government are appointed. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you want? Oh, my God! On the one hand, the PS says that whatever was behind, that this was good, and you, as you always have to say wrong of everything, say that even what is being done to contribute to transparency is wrong. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u63	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the road is moving.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u65	You guys are going back!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u66	I have said this once, in the committee, and I am going back to say it here today in plenary: the way is going! The government has had great courage to impose a system that aims precisely to introduce rigour, assessment of competences and transparency — I pray the person who hurts, has done so! in the past, you had political appointments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u67	And now too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u68	... that for you they don't count because, in general, for you everything is wrong; for PS is the system that you dislike. I was careful to go to see the PS program and not a line on this matter, not a line! And why? They want to end CRESAP, they want to end appointments to be jobs for the boys again. Well preached Friar Thomas : « do what he says, do not do what he does»... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u69	Eng. Guterres, former Prime Minister, said he wanted to end it, but you more than ever defend it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The system introduced by the Government was in the Government's programme and today, with this bill, has made significant improvements. The evaluation of people does not have to be made by your militant card,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u71	But it is! That's the result!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u72	... must be done by an exempt entity, capable of verifying the competences. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want me to name the numerous PS militants, other parties and even without party affiliation, who have been appointed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u73	Say how many!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u74	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u75	I can quote a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u76	How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u77	I've already distributed a list and I can do it again. The evaluation must be made rigorously, and the public administration is only credible in the eyes of the citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u78	People are exempt and we have no concern about making improvements when justified. These are improvements for the Portuguese State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u79	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u80	... for the Public Administration and, above all, for the valorization of the workers of the Public Administration. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u81	Mrs. Isabel Santos, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u82	Mr President, in order to ask the different banks to be distributed a news with the statement I made by Prof. João Bilhim on the lack of transparency in the choice and an article written by Mr. Virgílio Macedo, President of the District of the PSD Porto, to request transparency in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u83	Mr Deputy, bring them to the Bureau in order to be distributed. Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 4 of our agenda, the general assessment of Bill No 342 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, as approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and makes the first amendment to the Framework Law of the Foundations, as approved by Law No 24 / 2012 of 9 July. To present the bill, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Parliament have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in respect of a commitment made by the Government today we are debating the revision of the first Framework Law of the Foundations, adopted in 2012 in this Parliament. After three years, with the application of the law already at cruising stage, it is time to make a weighted assessment of the adjustments and improvements to be introduced. The balance sheet for these three years is positive. It was a demanding effort, until it began in a particularly difficult period, in which it was necessary to correct years of spending policies and without any rigor, but it was an effort that made it possible to meet the most important of the objectives then outlined: to reduce the weight of the parallel structures of the State, while at the same time strengthening the principles of transparency and cooperation between the State and the foundations financially supported with public money. I believe that we have effectively stopped the abusive uses of the foundation, in which the State was the first pre-variant when it used this institute to flee to the budgetary perimeter, to favour remuneration schemes or to escape the rules of public procurement. The reality of the founding universe was redeemed and the perception of the Portuguese in relation to this universe changed and, in my view, it was again quite positive. The priorities set out in the Framework Law remain: to return the basic regime to its original altruistic nature; to create strict control mechanisms and a more demanding regime for all situations in which the use of public money is concerned; to open up space for self-regulation, encouraging the approval of codes of conduct, and to prevent the proliferation of the parallel State through use of the foundational institution, subjecting strict control to the creation of new foundations by the State and other public collective persons. The experience gained, as well as the contributions received, from the Advisory Council of the Foundations and the Portuguese Centre of the Foundations, our partner of the sector, allowed us to identify the adjustments to promote in order to resolve doubts and expedite procedures. It is therefore important to continue to reduce the weight of the State's parallel structures and to strengthen the principle of transparency and cooperation between the State and its financially supported foundations. That is why we seek to accentuate the separation between the private foundation sector and the public foundation sector. Thus, in addition to some improvements made with regard to the extinction of public foundations, the relevant role is assigned to the General Inspection of Finance in the supervision of these foundations of a public nature. in the field of private foundations, we make adjustments in order to clarify the rules applicable to them, in particular as regards the limit of expenditure, and to emphasize respect for the founder's will and the autonomy of the foundations in its internal organisation. In order to speed up the application of the law, further changes are introduced in the procedure for the recognition of the foundations, providing for the possibility of simplified processing, with necessarily shorter time limits for assessment and decision, provided that the following requirements are fulfilled cumulatively: the foundation has been created only by persons of private law; the initial capital allocation of the foundation is constituted only by cash; and the text of the statutes obeys a previously approved and disclosed matrix model. The procedure for the recognition of foundations subject to special schemes is also simplified. Their applications shall be submitted to the competent authority for recognition by means of an electronic form and shall be obtained from the competent services of the Ministries of Solidarity and Social Security, Foreign Affairs and Cooperation or Education and Science, depending on the nature of these special foundations. In short, the proposal under discussion today maintains the principles of the Framework Law of the Foundations, approved in 2012, clarifying and agitating its application. After years of normative indefinition and enormous arbitrary latitude of administration over the foundational universe, today we live an overview of regulatory normality. With this proposal, we intend to strengthen this same normality and continue to prevent it from being possible again for the State to use the foundation institute to satisfy interests that have nothing to do with the altruistic principle that must always preside over the life of the foundations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u85	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u86	Mr President, Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, three years ago, during the debate on the Framework Law of the Foundations, Mr Minister, at the time Secretary of State, criticized the misuse of the foundation and 'wrong' practices — the word was his — which added to the so-called parallel State. What Mr Minister did not clarify at the time, nor today, was he who promoted the proliferation of public foundations and other entities of the parallel State. Mr. Minister, successive right-wing governments, including PSD and CDS governments, have subtracted from the Public Administration functions that were theirs and should have remained there, transferring them to the foundations. Mr. Minister, the Government announced at the beginning of the mandate its intention to attack the parallel State, but what the Government has done over the past four years has not been to attack the parallel State, to attack the State itself, its social functions, public services, limiting its ability to provide services and to guarantee rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. The worsening of the parallel State, Mr Minister, was only the pretext that the Government used to implement a victoriously ideological programme of State reconfiguration, which can be summarized as follows: Minimum state for workers and the people; Maximum state for the great capital. Mr President, the Government's intention to combat the parallel state is not genuine. This can be proved in the case of the foundational regime of higher education institutions. Three years ago, in the debate of the current Framework Law of the Foundations, when confronted by the CFP on this issue, the Minister said that what the former PS government did was incomprehensible, and I would quote: « pretending that universities became foundations», « cannot create the fiction that some of them are foundations, because they are not ». And he added: « I hope that in the short term they will no longer be foundations, because they are truly not foundations». This is what the Minister said in March 2012 about a question put to him by the CFP Parliamentary Group. But the government was four years old and, in these four years, not only did it not end with the foundational higher education regime, as recently the PSD and CDS Members rejected a proposal from the CFP that was going to do so. The government not only did not want to end the foundational higher education regime as it financially strangled public universities, reducing their ability to perform the functions assigned to them by law. And this example, Minister, is very elucidative of the real intentions of the government. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you to acknowledge that the aim of the Government is not to make the parallel state worse but to attack the state itself and its functions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u87	In reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u88	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, you did not ask me any questions yourself, but I listened carefully to your profession of faith in the omnipresence of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u89	I read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u90	... which is known: for the CFP everything should be public, the state should be present at all. Now, what is true, Mr. Member, is that there was a clearly abusive use by the public authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u91	Oh, but it wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u92	... not only of the State, at the level of central administration, but also of the companies of the public sector of the State, the authorities and universities, who over several years have used and abused the foundational institute to escape the rules of the budgetary perimeter, the public contract and even remuneration statutes, which are more stringent and stricter within the Administration than outside the Administration, in entities with different legal personality, such as foundations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u93	You see? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u94	This is all what we call the parallel State, and it was above all that this Framework Law came to lay down certain rules and decidedly ended with the possibility of continuing to proliferate these clearly abusive practices. After that, the honourable Member also spoke about the arrangements for the foundations under the legal regime of higher education institutions. That's right, sir! I am sorry that it has not been possible in these four years to review the RJIES (Legal System of Higher Education Institutions). I am convinced, and I maintain this view, that, as you know, the question that is at the RJIES, concerning the foundational institute, in practice, has to do with a strengthened autonomy regime that is given to universities that meet a certain type of requirements, which are currently three. It is obvious to all of us, and I think that for the CFP too, that these universities, in accordance with what is in the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic, should maintain this regime of autonomy itself in its functioning; what is wrong, I think — I have thought four years ago and I generally maintain this principle in conceptual terms — is to call them foundations. Let's call things by names. What has to happen is a system of enhanced autonomy for universities, when they reach certain levels and meet certain requirements which must be established in a clear manner in the law, as is the case with those three and, perhaps, some that today, in Portugal, are university institutes of excellence and have the capacity to benefit from this same autonomy which is generally provided for in the Constitution and which must be leveraged and implemented in terms of ordinary legislation. That is what must happen, Mr President, and it is a pity, indeed — I recognise it! — that the Government has not been able, during these four years of mandate, because there were other more emerging, more urgent matters to review the RJIES. It is true, it is a fact, but I hope it will be possible to carry out this review of the RJIES briefly. However, until then it is necessary to maintain the system of enhanced autonomy of universities, it is necessary to provide our universities, increasingly, with conditions for them to walk on their feet and to stop depending so much on the taxpayers' money. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u95	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u96	Mr President, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, as a previous note, to point out here that, at the end of a four-year term and three months after the end of this term, this government, which is deeply reformist, despite the constraints it was obliged to make and in which so many times, as we have just heard, had to change what was important for what was urgent, it maintains the same spirit, the same will and brings us, even today, in July, new diplomas to correct and improve the Framework Law of the Foundations. This problem that we are trying to solve has not started now, comes at least since the 1990s. We all remember that in 1999 working groups were set up with a view to finding solutions that would allow greater transparency and regulation of the foundations, which in fact gave rise in 2004 to the Framework Law of the Public Institutes, which included private foundations and private law foundations, in particular those created by public entities. It was unanimous in the belief that there existed and there was enormous legislative dispersion, to which the powers of the regional and municipal administrations on the establishment of foundations at this level, causing numerous difficulties as to the delimitation of the foundational universe. In fact, all this came to be, and was denounced by the Portuguese Foundation Centre itself. The Court of Auditors also, in a 2011 report, warned of the existence of many entities responsible for the recognition of such entities, and at that time the Court of Auditors itself called for greater monitoring and control of foundations, recommending the promotion of a framework legal regime for foundations, whether private or public, to prevent such entropies. This Government is endorsed by the Memorandum of Understanding, which initially did not subscribe, but met, where it referred to, and I quote, the desire to « improve the efficiency of the Public Administration by eliminating redundancy, simplifying procedures and reorganizing services; regulate the creation and operation of all public entities (e.g. companies, foundations, associations) », providing for a detailed analysis of the cost / benefit to public or semi-public entities. And, in these, obviously, foundations, associations and other entities were included. All this aimed to regulate the creation and operation of foundations, associations and other entities. The XIX Constitutional Government Programme itself made explicit reference to the need to reduce what has been called, and gained a name, as a parallel State, referring to public corporate entities, public or mixed enterprises, at the level of regional and local administration. These processes could pass, as was previously anticipated, by the extinction, merger or reduction of such structures, provided that they are considered as indispensable or of an excessive size. But since it is not possible to act without knowing or possible the therapy without diagnosis, the government, in good time, promoted a census, covering all these institutions, to better know their reality. It was on the basis of the collection of these elements and the extended information which he presented to Parliament and gave the Parliament to vote and pass Bill No 42 / XII, which culminated in the Framework Law of the Foundations. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, here and three years ago on the application of this Law, the fact is that it is still highly positive that we want to correct it, on the basis of the lessons learned, and that we can nevertheless recognise that we have quantitative and qualitative gains here. It is undeniable that this instrument has allowed the misuse of the foundational institute, return the foundational regime to its altruistic nature, create strict control mechanisms and a more demanding regime for all situations in which the use of public money is concerned, either directly or through the benefits of public utility, open space for self-regulation, encourage the creation and approval of codes of conduct. It's the flag of the parallel state! This purpose is maintained today, the original purpose. But, if the balance sheet for these three years is positive, the truth is that there are corrections that the path it has taken advises, either in order to resolve doubts concerning the Framework Law of the Foundations, either in order to expedite procedures, or finally to comply with the specific judgment of the Constitutional Court No 534 / 2014. It is now intended, more than anything else, to maintain and ensure this stable and transparent framework of the foundational universe, to various titles, whether in public foundations, where several changes are introduced, or also in private ones. It is our conviction that with these amendments we are making an effective and valid contribution to the continuation and implementation of the Framework Law, and therefore we look forward to the best reception of the other political forces represented in this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u97	For an intervention, Mr Luís Pita Amisexa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Members of the Government : This bill is submitted by the Government, invoking for reasons, and I quote that «(...) the need for some adjustments to resolve doubts concerning the Framework Law of the Foundations and expedite procedures(...) ». It is therefore a law of cleaning and correction. in this line, says the Government, in its explanatory statement, and I quote again: « It is also used to amend some rules of the Foundation Framework Law to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court No 534 / 2014, (...) as regards regional foundations, and to correct rules of the Civil Code and Framework Law of the Foundations which have come to raise doubts or difficulties in their interpretation and application or which contain lapses which must be corrected». Now, here is, quite on purpose, and for the punishment of the government itself, a good characterization of one of its brand images, and of the majority who support it, who leave it, pressing, in this legislation now to end. This brand image is the one of a Government and its majority of support, repeatedly, to legislate and pertinently violators of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic or, as is the case, violators of the Political-Administrative Statutes of the Autonomous Regions, which approach the Constitution, in terms of constitutional doctrine, by its superlegislative legal value. In part, therefore, it was the Constitutional Court’s judgment No 534 / 2014 that transported us here to this legislative process of cleaning and correction. In fact, the Constitutional Court, in that arrest, declared the illegality, by violation of the autonomous statute, of half a dozen rules of the so-called Framework Law of the Foundations, in particular of its Articles 6. o No 2, 20. o, paragraph 1, 42. o No 2, 46. Article 53 ( 1 ), ( a ) to ( g ), points ( 1 ) and 53 ( 2 ). o. The governing bodies of the Autonomous Region of the Azores now appear, in this legislative process which we are discussing today in general, to give an adverse opinion on this proposal for a law. In the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the following was declared : « (...) the initiative under consideration continues to disregard the competences of the Region enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and developed in the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, as well as the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court ». And the regional PSD, in that House, stated in its clear support of the unfavorable opinion against the bill : « The PSD has based its abstention on the expectation that the proposals now presented, in the specialty, will deserve welcome. Do not keep on seeking. ” And do not forget, as the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry points out, that compliance with the Constitutional Court's judgment has been failed, by absence, as regards Articles 42. o No 2, and 46. the, paragraph 1, of the Framework Law concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a first problem to face in the specialty, which is to clarify if the government, after having suffered one — one more! — adverse judgment of the Constitutional Court, not because of the responsibility of the Court, as sometimes the Government and the majority of Parliament have wanted to pass, but because of the government and the damaged legislative options it proposes and, however, covered in Parliament by the banks that support it, and forced by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court to amend the Framework Law of the Foundations, did not again « put foot in the pit ». [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] On the other hand, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has also criticized this bill, because « (...) the ongoing review ‘sin’ for not responding to some sense constraints(...) ». So we ask ourselves: what was the government’s dialogue with the municipalities on this matter? It seems that none, which, confirming itself, can only be regretted. in a general overview, this bill leaves the idea of a weak legislative forecast regarding the regime established in 2012, by Law No. 24 / 2012 of 9 July, due to the extent and quantity of the legislative repair works now presented. I recall the intervention of Articles 166. o, 168. o, 185. o, 186. o, 188. o, 190. o -A and 193. the Civil Code, and thus corrected Articles 2. o, 3. o, 5. o, 6. o, 7. o, 8. o, 9. o, 10. o, 11. o, 15. o, 17. o, 20. o, 22. o, 23. o, 24. o, 26. o, 33. o, 36. o, 39. o, 40. o, 41. o, 43. o 46. o, 53. o, 56. o 57. o, 58. o, 60. o is 61. the Law Framework of the Foundations, approved by Law No. 24 / 2012, of 9 July! It is in such a way that it might be easier to state what becomes uncomplicated, then, at the first revision of the law. Therefore, once again, there is no good image for the government, suffering from its unpredictable and shown inability to properly and properly legislate. Perhaps now, to the second attempt, who knows... But still, it seems that we do not, because if we open the opinion given to the proposal for law by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which concludes, it is true, that the positive need for amendments to legislative improvement and constitutional conformation will soon come to this assessment of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy: « (...) in general analysis, this bill does not realise aspects which it would fulfil, before the amendment of the law, take place". It is interesting, finally, that is what is contained in the opinion of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor, which stresses that some of the amendments that have been tabled by the Government in this proposal for a law do not go far enough! — to restore the original versions of the same precepts, as they were before the Law of 2012, i.e. the improvement of the Law proposed by the Government is, after all, to recover the past that the same Government, supported by the parliamentary majority, had verberated and modified, thus returning to the primitive form! This is the case with Articles 166. o, 168. o, and 186. the Civil Code, and the repeated article 190. The same code. I mean, a horrendous confession of error in the political-legislative options! The government is thus a confused, perverse and insecure legislator. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing is essentially aimed at clarifying doubts and facilitating procedures, keeping—and, in my view, strengthening, Mr President of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs—which was the philosophy of the Framework Law of the Foundations, adopted in 2012. In other words, this initiative undoubtedly represents the continuation of a work started three years ago, guided by objectives of systematization, transparency, control of public expenditure and rehabilitation of altruism in the pursuit of aims of social interest as the foundation principle of the institution concerned. That is why it is not too much to remember the preamble of this Act, which today the Government intends to improve and which is inseparable from the assumption of two commitments: one, the fulfilment of the outcome of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme to Portugal, which is essentially guided by an objective of rationalizing public charges; and another, the fulfilment of the Government Programme, when it recognizes itself, as it has already already been expressly recognised here, the urgency of the reduction of the so-called parallel State. in this framework, with regard to the Foundations, it was, as will be remembered, firstly, a survey, whereby it was determined that a census was carried out aimed at the foundations, national and international, foreign, which continue their purposes in national territory, with a view to assessing the respective cost/benefit and financial viability, and to decide on the maintenance or termination, continuation, reduction or termination of financial support, as well as maintenance and cancellation of the status of public utility. And after that, the Framework Law of the Foundations was finally adopted, which also ended up being a reply, as has already been mentioned, to a recommendation by the Court of Auditors, contained in a 2011 report. This is Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a matter of greatest importance. It is undeniable that foundations have an important role in creating conditions so that a committed and critical public can perform the social functions of monitoring and driving cultural and political life. The foundations are also clearly agents of social solidarity, enabling the State, within certain limits, within the framework of activities of a cultural, educational, scientific and social nature, to refer to a desirable subsidiary function, in my view. However, both the approved Framework Law and the current improvements, which largely respond to the doubts raised and resulting from the application of the scheme, aim to ensure the effectiveness of this involvement and social control. More - referring in particular to the nature of this initiative, Mr Luís Pita Amixa, let me say that it is also a reflection of the whole recognition that it is so important to legislate as to monitor its application, correcting what needs to be corrected, in order to improve the service to the public interest which should be the mobile of any executioner and, of course, of any legislator. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u101	It is unfortunate that Mr Luís Pita Amisema does not recognise that. It is thus guaranteed the so-called social effectiveness of laws, essential to the civic involvement that foundations presuppose, as well as the social responsibility that foundations naturally desire. We all know, ladies and gentlemen. Members — it has already been mentioned here — as, unfortunately, the foundation regime has been fraudulently used for many years: to disburse public funds, to circumvent budgetary rules or even — said in a smooth manner — 'agile' procedures and rules of public law, in particular in the field of public procurement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u102	in this case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by the hand of this government, it was not just « something» that changed, it was a lot that changed — and well! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u103	Mr Luís Pita Amixea, let me say, that was what happened in the past, not what I recognize in the present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u104	of what we are dealing with today is, in essence, of benefactories, it is true, they are all necessary. Briefly and exemplifyingly—and I am not going, Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, referring to the figures which Mr Luís Pita Amisema has already given us the opportunity to mention in its entirety in the field of private foundations: the clarification of limits of expenditure; the strengthening of the guarantee of respect for the will of the founder and autonomy of the foundations — very important — and the amendment of the procedure for the recognition of foundations subject to special schemes. in substance, what is intended here is to speed up, while, of course, maintaining the obligation of certain opinions. in the field of public foundations, amendments are made to the regime applicable to members of public foundations of private law, to the advertising of certain acts and also to their extinction. Finally, but no less important, because it is a matter of fundamental responsibility, some rules of the Framework Law of the Foundations are amended just to comply, as the Government itself also recognises, when decided in a Constitutional Court judgment on the foundations of the regional sphere. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the institutions heard in the course of the process of drawing up this initiative, there is indeed unanimity in the positive assessment of the proposed law, punctuated only by proposals for amendments in partial aspects of the initiative, which, of course, may be addressed in the field of expertise, or at least in the doubts that have been raised here. Having said that, I conclude by saying that today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what happened in 2012, i.e. in the full domain of our sovereignty and decision-making autonomy,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u106	... it is clear that I believe that the improvement of the legal system of foundations should never be neglected, recognizing, of course, that we are accompanying, a very serious, responsible and decisive contribution in this regard. It would be desirable that the main opposition party also saw that, exactly, that same responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u107	But in view of what has happened, or at least what we know from the past, it is natural that the statements we have heard were those. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u108	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, on the challenge which the Government has made at the beginning of this debate, saying that it wants to combat the informality and this parallel state that may exist in the foundations—of course, no one can deny that it exists, on the one hand, and that we should all be called to fight it, on the other — I mean that there is a notorious lack of responsibility here, not only for the Minister, in particular; but also for the Government and the parties that were in the various governments, over the decades of democracy, in the management of companies and the authorities. It is that, in fact, they have proliferated the foundations and created this parallelism, on the side of the State, without control of dues, without control of expenditure, even without guarantee of the social functions that many of these foundations should have and without any guarantee of transparency in their activity. That's a fact. Now, what's strange is that it's been so long until the PSD/CDS government has admitted this reality, this swamp that existed in our country. from the part of the Left Block, we have long been insurging against this existence. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] That is why I would say, first of all, as far as this objective is concerned, that anyone who comes well will be welcomed on our part and we will be fully committed to achieving this objective. It does not seem to us, however, that he is so genuine on the part of the Government, even because, as the Minister said and as he was recognized by the majority, they appear here, not of genuine will, genuine, but still "the coin" of the troika, still arising from the wishes of the Memorandum. On the other hand, it is seen in the various and broad articles of this bill that there is a remarkable desire to have, even in this bill, pressure on workers. If not, see: the idea that there should be a balance between the accounts of the foundations, which we accompany, is materialised in some respects in the perspective of the percentage that the budget of these foundations should have in the payment of wages, in the payment of human resources. It is therefore a little strange that this obsession with salaries, employees and officials of these foundations can be felt here. As I said at the outset, I do not believe that these details can prevent us from reaching a good end, but we hope that in fact this is really the goal of the government, because late in time also comes late in this legislature. It's almost 25. the time this debate is brought here, a little until fighting the letters that had been given in 2012 by this government, as says one of the opinions that has been distributed. But it must be said that we will have an opening to, in our specialty, contribute to this fight that we find essential and that needs to go deeper than what the Government presents in the Framework Law of the Foundations. We also note that this proposal has to come with the recognition of the guilt that PSD, CDS-PP and PS parties had in many of these realities. I finish by saying that many of these foundations were exactly for the places of the boys and girls we were discussing at the previous point. And we know that by not changing anything — as we have seen — in the Government's will, we also realize that many boys, many girls will continue to have their recognition for the services provided not to the Nation, not to the public interest, but to the party interests in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u110	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : For years, PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP have promoted the proliferation of foundations and other entities parallel to Public Administration, a situation that the CFP has always denounced and fought. We understood, as we still understand, that rather than emptying the Public Administration, transferring its functions to entities of the parallel State, to institutions deprived of social solidarity or to private companies, what was required was the restructuring, rationalization and modernization of the Public Administration itself, with a view to strengthening its capacity to provide more and better services to citizens. The abuse by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP, to structures parallel to the Public Administration, and in particular the foundational institute, served to circumvent the budgetary perimeter, to escape the rules of public procurement and that would not have been alien to the desire to feed party customers. The pretext of an alleged search for prompt solutions that would give speedy and effective response to the needs of the public service, the right-wing policy governments were creating a parallel state that promoted opacity, remuneration schemes for appointment and recruitment that were absolutely unacceptable and the partisanization of public functions. The necessary fight against the parallel State, announced by the Government during the debate of the current Framework Law of the Foundations, contained a danger: that this fight should serve as a pretext for opening up the way to privatization of public services and that as a result of this fight the parallel State would not only cease to be parallel as well as cease to be a State. The PCP alerts were fully justified. For the last four years, the government has attacked the State itself, its social functions and public services, withdrawing from the public sphere its functions and should have remained in it. He attacked the employees of the Public Administration, removing their important labour rights, confiscating their wages, freezing their progress in careers, shooting them for requalification, before dismissal. It has deteriorated essential public services, promoted its elitization and conditioned its access, removing to vast layers of the population the possibility of fully enjoying the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. The reconfiguration of the State and its Public Administration, putting it even more at the service of the great capital was one of the central objectives of government action, with obvious damage to the country, to the workers and to the people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Government today brings up a proposal for a revision of the Framework Law of the Foundations, introducing slight amendments to the Civil Code and making some adjustments to the Framework Law itself. Having no objection to many of these amendments and adjustments, however, we cannot fail to remember that the current Law would have allowed the Government to extinguish public foundations by integrating its functions into public administration bodies, as it would have allowed it to separate the wheat from the juicy, cutting public support to private foundations of dubious utility and maintaining support for foundations with proven work and recognized merit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u113	And if the government did not, it was by political and ideological choice and not by lack of legal framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u114	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u115	I shall conclude, Mr President. Without prejudice to the necessary improvements to the Framework Law of the Foundations, what is necessary is an alternative policy, opposed to that which has been followed by successive right-wing governments. A policy is necessary to recognise that the State must fully assume all its responsibilities and implement the measures necessary to achieve this objective, to restore to the public bodies their functions and that they should never have been withdrawn from the public sphere and to defend and enhance the social functions of the State, ensuring the realization of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u116	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Parliament have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I find, firstly, that I have not heard practically from any opposition party — which I am pleased to note — direct criticisms in relation to what are the proposals on the table. Moreover, I am not surprised—and I speak directly to Mr Luís Pita Amisena of the Socialist Party—because already in the original Framework Law which is currently in force no party, nor the Socialist Party, voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u118	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u119	So all those criticisms that you wanted here to point out — that the law was wrong, that it was unconstitutional, that it was "all and a couple more boots" — do not proceed, because in fact, the only issue that has been raised by the Constitutional Court is now resolved in this diploma. The honourable Member did not do the housework well, because he did not see the bill, probably nor read it, only worried about seeing the critical opinions, which is regrettable. Mr Luís Pita Amisexa, I have not heard a word from him about the proposals that are put forward by the Government. The criticism of the Constitutional Court has to do only with one fact: the Regional Azores Government does not want to comply with the Framework Law and wants to have its own law on this matter. however, the Constitution of the Republic expressly states that the legislation on foundations is the subject of this House, the Court's judgment draws attention to the question of reservation of status and is now finally resolved with this proposed law which safeguards what is provided in the Political-Administrative Statutes of the Autonomous Regions on foundations. Taking this away, it is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic and it is on this responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic that we insist on and that the Member, as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic and not of the Regional Legislative Assembly, should also fight to defend. It is the Assembly of the Republic that has to define these rules and it is the regions that have to comply, respected as the Political and Administrative Statutes. That's what's in the law now. The honourable Member then says that there are a number of articles which are amended by law. What I would like to hear from you is whether you agree with these amendments or not, because this debate is not about criticism, the debate is about the proposals here. The honourable Member takes his own criticism of others, but he does not say what the Socialist Party's position on these proposals is. With regard to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to say that it is unfair to say that it is not true on the part of the Government that the intention is to set up foundations. It is so true, Mr President, that since this government has begun its duties — the honourable Member may speak about the past and the responsibilities of the parties of the majority and of the parties who were in the government in the past — from 2011 to 2011 there is no foundation set up by a majority public body. Therefore, it is not fair for the honourable Member to say that this will of the Government is not genuine. She is more than genuine, she has been and has been met at risk by this government. And the same is true of the reduction in State support for existing foundations, which have come from behind, because in the Budget of the State voted by this Assembly of the Republic — I do not have the data here, but I imagine that, in this part, listening to the position of the honourable Member, the Left Block at least did not object to this — systematically since 2012 has been made the reduction of the transfers of the State to the founding universe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u120	Without separating the wheat from the juicy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u121	Thirdly, it is also not fair to criticize 25. the time, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, because from the very first moment, in this Framework Law, it was established that at the end of three years it would be subject to a review or reassessment. The three years are from here to four days, on July 7 or 8, the date on which the current Framework Law was published.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u122	July 9th!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u123	We're doing what we made ourselves do. I began my speech by saying that the government was here to take on the commitment it made before the Assembly of the Republic and before the founding universe of, at the end of three years, to be reviewing the legislation. The current Framework Law is of 9 July 2012 and we are in July 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u124	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u125	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to Mr Paulo Sá's questions, I would like to say that since the Framework Law was approved there have been more than 40 extinct foundations and the Government, through the State Budget, has made annual reductions in transfers of public money to the foundations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u126	But without separating the wheat from the juicy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u127	You know that it is, Mr President, that you can argue that there should be a cut to zero — that is another issue — but that would call into question what you say to defend, i.e. the jobs that exist in the foundations. It is also necessary to safeguard the functioning of these foundations, at least those that actually pursue activities and services that are of interest to the community, and to ensure that this can happen at least. That is why State transfers are not cut to 100 %, but have been reduced, and much, since 2012. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u128	You need to separate the wheat from the juicy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u129	Mr Luís Pita Amisema, ask for the floor for what effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u130	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the work of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u131	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u132	Mr President, the Minister, in his speech, made reference to the fact that the Socialist Party had voted in favour of the law which is now being amended. I have here the parliamentary voting records of May 18, 2012 which indicate the vote against the Socialist Party. I would naturally like that to come to the attention of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u133	The Bureau took the appropriate note, Mr President. We are finishing the discussion on this point, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Luís Pita Amisema, ask for a word again for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u134	I wish to speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u135	Please, Mr President, but I ask you to be quick, since you have very little time. I trust your power of synthesis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u136	Mr. President, I just wanted to point out that the Socialist Party, in the discussion of this 2012 Act, warned that she was a violator of the Political-Administrative Statutes, a violationr of the Constitution. Speaking for the PSD, Mr Paulo Rios said « it is the belief of the majority that the diploma does not have unconstitutionalities». however, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, from the CDS-PP, said in the discussion on the speciality on 16 May 2012, the following, "follows the doubts raised regarding the constitutionality of a standard that departs from the provisions of the Political-Administrative Autonomic Statutes". So, Mr. Minister, the Trapalhon government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u137	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u138	What about the two more minutes of the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u139	... the Government whose brand name is not to respect the Constitution, which does not respect the Political and Administrative Statutes, which does not do the housework, which brings wrong laws, which it has to amend, that Government is the PSD and the CDS-PP — in this case, with the specific safeguard for Mrs Teresa Anjinho, to whom I congratulate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u140	We will move on to point 5 of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Bill No. 341 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 35 / 2012 of 23 August 2012 establishing the compensation fund for the universal electronic communications service provided for in the Electronic Communications Act for the financing of the net costs resulting from the provision of the universal service. You have the floor to present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u141	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Bill No. 341 / XII ( 4. ( a ), today under discussion, is the first amendment to Law No 35 / 2012 of 23 August, which created the compensation fund for the universal electronic communications service. As you know, this fund is intended to finance the net costs resulting from the provision of the universal service, which is the set of essential benefits which ensure that all citizens have access to the fixed telephone network and to public posts in quality and affordable conditions and still receive telephone lists and can at any time access an information service, 118. The proposed amendment of the law submitted by the Government to Parliament does not contain any substantial changes to the financing mechanism established in 2012. With this amendment, the Government only intends to introduce a few small spot adjustments that find justification for the temporary evolution and experience already taken up with the implementation of the compensation fund. Within the framework already outlined by the law adopted in 2012, we expect that the costs incurred in 2014, prior to the commencement of the provision of universal service by new operators, may also be financed through the fund, while maintaining the audit and approval obligation by ANACOM to ensure the technical and legal soundness of the information ; the obligation to send ANACOM, if the activity of electronic communications operators ceases, of the information necessary for the identification of entities to contribute to the financing of the universal service and to the completion of their contributions, is reworded, and having regard to the experience already collected by ANACOM with the process, it is provided for and repealed Article 13 (5). the, which provides that ANACOM should determine the immediate suspension of the activity to the company in default, since it would allow the failure to comply with a contributing obligation with a restriction on the freedom of enterprise, which from our point of view may be considered excessive. Finally, there is an opportunity to introduce some adjustments in the provisions relating to remuneration to be paid to the State as a counterpart to the provision of universal service, the provision of a complete telephone list and an information service, 118. But the political option remains and remains very clear: to exempt taxpayers from any payment for the provision of this service, which continues to be financed by the sector's operators, on behalf of justice, in the distribution of costs. And here is really the big capital it pays for this service. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u142	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor. [[Pause.]] Sir, you're distracted. It is because I gave him the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u143	on the contrary, Mr President. He was very attentive and commenting on what Mr. Secretary of State had just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u144	Although we are all pleased with the attention given to the government, on this occasion the attention was to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u145	The attention was paid to the Bureau, it was for the Government, it was for the entire Assembly of the Republic, because this debate is with everyone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u146	It was just because I was giving you the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u147	And I quickly took advantage of it and, if I may, I continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u148	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u149	Mr President, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, Mr. Members: When the Government proposed to this House the law which it now intends to amend, the CFP pointed out that the central problem, more than these regulatory procedural arrangements for the sharing of responsibilities between the economic groups which control the telecommunications sector or, as Mr. Secretary of State very well now has designated, the great capital, is the context and purpose of the policies of privatization, liberalisation and submission of a sector and a public service of strategic character to the power of the oligopoly, of the great capital, to the detriment of the interests of our country. What, then, we said is still valid. If you ask any citizen whether it is preferable to fund the public service or, in this case, the universal telecommunications service with the State Budget money or with the contributions of the companies in the sector, it is not difficult to imagine the answer, especially when you attend the profits party and dividends, year after year, to fill the pockets of the large capital. The worst is the rest. It is that what is up, which is at the root of this, that is what happens quietly as deadlines, reports and information duties are discussed. It is the dismantling of PT, placed at the mercy of capital markets and the interests of large capital, that is the so-called universal service to be segmented by regions of the national territory, that is the precariousness and degradation of the working conditions of the sector with the trivialization of poorly paid and uncertain work, the unbridled exploitation and the attack on employment with rights. And with regard to the amendments to the arrangements for the provision of services of the telephone lists, in which it has already given us to see everything, from awards to PT for a €1 to the dismissal of dozens of workers in these same areas of work, we cannot fail to remember the struggles of the workers of the Yellow Pages in the then PT Group and to welcome, in a general way, the struggle of all the workers of the telecommunications companies. by the Government, a bill is submitted to the Assembly of the Republic which, in addition to the publication, amends two points and two numbers in respect of such regulatory procedures as regards the rule of law in force and the repeal of a suspension of services which ANACOM could determine. by the PCP, we reiterate our commitment not only to giving voice to this struggle of the workers of the sector, but, of course, to give it a consequence: to intervene and work for the adoption of another policy not in favour of oligopolies, economic groups, large capital, but for workers and populations, to serve cohesion and national sovereignty. That is why with another policy, in fact, our country is going forward, it is not with the policies of the troika, neither that of the outside nor that of the national. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u150	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In fact, this proposal which the Government is presenting to us deals with a simple, perfectly perceptible matter and, I thought, of broad consensus, since it is so clear, goes towards the benefit of the users and — surprises me the position of the Communist Party — paid for the large capital and the owners of the companies. We are talking about a sector that is of great innovation and with great changes, often always for the benefit of users—in fact, they always make life easier for companies and workers. I would therefore say that there is not much more to say because what is intended is to explain more clearly and with more legal certainty who pays, how much pay and when he pays. These are the amendments proposed here. The fund is obviously useful and has benefits, from now on in the creation of telephone lists, Volume 118 — it is now clearer how this sharing is done. In fact, the amendments are very, very small. It defines who pays, which are the companies that offer public communications networks or electronic communications services accessible to the public in the national territory as set out in Article 18 ( 1 ). the, and then solves a problem that arose in the last 2012 contest. It is that whoever was paying this fund was PT and, with the changes in PT, it became MEO. Therefore, what was planned was a payment until 2014 and which, in the limit, was until 2015, can reach 2016. What does the law do now? Article 15 ( 4 ). the, it is stated that in the event of cessation of activity, companies shall send to ANACOM within 15 working days from the date of termination a declaration of turnover and the information of those with responsibility. In other words, rather than being the calendar year, it is earlier; instead of being indefinite which the company providing these services is obliged to indicate which is the company making that payment. Therefore, whoever manages this fund, which is ANACOM, knows more clearly who pays and how much he pays and who is faster to measure the amounts to be charged. I believe that these amendments are, in fact, simple, give more legal certainty and clarity and make the fund, if any, more useful to pay what we all want, which is the net fund for universal service, that, yes, it seems to me important because it brings great benefits to the Portuguese people, great benefits to technology and innovation, so fundamental and so important in this sector, and that it is again supported by companies serving in the national territory. on our part, Mr Secretary of State, we will vote in favour and I hope that this consensus will also be visible and, of course, there is no matter of dissident here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u152	Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The Government is bringing us today a set of amendments to a diploma that is two years old. I think he does it out of disrepute by the government itself by allowing a spill within the time limits which he sets and by failing to fit within those deadlines.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u155	First aspect: a competition launched in 2012 is resolved in 2014 and, in order to make compensations for the first months of the year 2014, it is now obliged to extend to 2016 to resolve something whose origin is in 2012. If this is not a spillover, if this is not unfair, Mr Secretary of State, the Government, in this respect, has proved to be careless and allowed that, instead of reducing deadlines, instead of being efficient, we had this spillover today. On the other hand, the government today, in a simulated way, is changing what concerns the universal service of telephone lists by saying the following: instead of the revenue of the concession coming to the State, it will now go to the compensation fund. It's just that Mr. Secretary of State doesn't say everything. It is that when the government receives a receipt from the telephone lists, it has now realized that it will have to pay for the provision of this service. In other words, what we are told here is that there is no revenue, there is a payment, and in order to have a payment, it is necessary to change the meaning that origin cannot be the State but the compensation fund. So what is proposed is another amendment to the government's forecasts that we would have a revenue but, after all, there is a expenditure. And there's already the second contest, because the first one got deserted and the second one already points to a expense. Thirdly, the Government has reduced penalties and penalties for non-compliance with this contribution and the solution it finds is that, either as regards the ancillary penalty or as regards the suspension of the activity, it is released from this obligation. Or the Secretary of State tells us whether, in the initial version, it was understood that this penalty was appropriate, as it was passed by law, or now the Government says that this penalty is not justified. It is noted that, in a likely absence of payment, it will have to be the other operators, subsidiaryly, to accompany these types of payments. That is why it seems to us that what the Government wants is, in fact, to correct its work throughout the process and what it provided for in respect of revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said that the initial problem in this sector is the liberalisation and privatization with the separation of the retail sector and the granting of networks, frequencies, infrastructures in the private sector, which were built with public investment and, therefore, with money from taxpayers and are now granted to private at balance prices. Sometimes, we still pay to give private people and often these private people can't keep up with the water tone and are struggling for their own survival, as is the case with Portugal Telecom, such is the superiority of private management and private property vis-à-vis public property and public management. We are now dependent on the willingness of private operators to pay contributions by a public service fund and sanctions are still withdrawn when the rule providing for the immediate suspension of companies in breach is repealed because it is considered excessive for private companies to operate under oligopoly, as has already been said, the large capital, because with large capital we can never be excessive, despite giving it much of public services at balance prices, built with public investment and taxpayers' money. The proposal presented here by the Government does not make any substantive amendment, amends some points of a law which is bad at its origin, which corresponds to a bad regime at its origin and which is at risk of being relatively worse at some of the points presented here, without solving any of the problems of the sector that originally come with liberalisation. This is the analysis we do. She doesn't change with this law. As I said, they only change a few points within the regime which, in its origin, is wrong and that goes against what we consider to be public investment and public service in the area of telecommunications. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u158	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u159	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It is the duty of a State to ensure the provision of a universal electronic communications service throughout the national territory and at affordable prices. This is a commitment which may imply the provision of some components of this service under conditions that actually depart from normal commercial conditions. In concrete terms, the universal service is to ensure that the fixed-site telephone service reaches all end-users at an affordable price, with special conditions for pensioners and pensioners, and with defined levels of quality. This service should allow to establish and receive local, national and international telephone calls, fax communications and also enable functional access to the Internet. In recognition of this duty and accompanied by its imperative, the Government approved, through Resolution No 50/2012 of the Council of Ministers, the hiring of this universal service, as well as the terms of its competition procedures. It was also authorised the inherent expenditure and it was established that the State should ensure that this minimum set of benefits, designated by universal service, should be provided in a non-discriminatory manner regardless of the geographical location of users. The proposed law that we are assessing today aims to amend Law No 35 / 2012, which created the universal service compensation fund in order to generate the necessary conditions that guarantee the effective realization of its assumptions and objectives — a simple amendment as Mr Hélder Amaral said. On the one hand, the means and criteria are defined to promote the calculation and distribution of the net costs of the service and it is established that the extraordinary contribution already provided for in Law No 35/2012 covers the financing of the net costs of the universal service incurred by the concessionaire who already ensured this service in 2014, the date on which the suppliers designated following the competitive process launched by the Government began their activity. On the other hand, it is noted that ANACOM receives all the necessary data in the event of cessation of business activity that offers electronic communications networks and/or services. Finally, the provisions relating to remuneration to be paid to the State as a counterpart to the provision of universal service, the provision of a complete telephone list and the complete service of list information, the well-known service 118. The fair costs to be charged by universal service are defined by the national regulatory authority, ANACOM, and the universality of the service must be safeguarded. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this era of information and connectivity, this government initiative, which safeguards the interests of the State, is presented as a relevant step in ensuring that Portuguese access to the electronic communications network under fair and non-discriminatory conditions is a reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u160	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the debate is always ideological. The government obviously does not support the nationalisation of telecommunications companies. Many have defended it during public discussion regarding PT, but we really want private telecommunications companies to pay for public service. This is the only reason that we are brought here today, to the plenary, to discuss this bill and it would be important for all parties to clarify their position, whether or not they accept that private capital should pay for public service in this sector. That's all. Secondly, Mr. Fernando Serrasqueiro's intervention could be the idea that the government has launched competitions, the government has been disillusioned in timings... No, the government has not done anything about it. The Government has sent ANACOM to manage this competition in a way that it best understands. This is how the independent regulators who have executive custody of the sectors are concerned, because the State no longer has any form of capital intervention, as, in fact, once again, it was quite clear during the Telecom discussion, in which many of the Socialist Party's Members and figures close to the Socialist Party were asking for state intervention, the return to the past, and we said that the private would deal with their lives, what we wanted was to regulate the sectors and make them work well. The government does not pay anything, the government does not tender, the government does not run this sector. Do it through ANACOM and we create conditions, yes, so that the sector can have regulatory predictability, growth, innovation and investment capacity. Finally, one last note to say, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important for this bill to be approved. And I explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u162	Please finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u163	I will finish, Mr President, by saying that the compensation fund is now at the time of being given money to pay the public service a few years ago. It is therefore important that approval be made and that we can quickly, through ANACOM, receive for the compensation fund the money with which privates are supposed to contribute to the public service of the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u164	With no further inscriptions, I will end the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 341 / XII ( 4. ( a). Let us move on to the general discussion of Bill No 167 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum wage ( ALRAA ). For an intervention, Mr. Jorge Rodrigues Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u165	Mr. President, Ex.mos Mrs and Mrs. Members: I begin by referring once again to the disappointment that the diplomas from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores are delayed to be scheduled for discussion in plenary. This diploma was no exception, since it entered almost two years ago and accompanied an urgent request in its schedule. Despite this period of time, since the entry of the diploma and its discussion today, the issue has not ceased to have relevance; on the contrary, it is assumed as a subject of the greatest importance and urgency. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u166	The increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum wage, known as the minimum wage, remains a current, mandatory and, above all, necessary discussion. When presenting this initiative, the Azores PS was based on the fact that Portugal had the lowest minimum wage in the euro area and a worker receiving the national minimum wage living with income equivalent to the poverty threshold. In 2006, at the centre of social consultation, it was established that the minimum wage would reach 500 € in 2011. This value was resumed by the Assembly of the Republic, through Resolution No 125 / 2010 of 12 November 2010 to enter into force in January 2011. however, this increase only occurred at the end of 2014 for the amount of €505. Despite the increase recorded, the foundations that led the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to present this bill are kept up-to-date, so we are justified in dealing with this matter. The number of people living with incomes equivalent to the poverty threshold is certainly a concern to all of us and to whom we should devote all our attention to seeking solutions and means to contribute positively to the reversal of this situation. This is not an issue to serve as a political weapon, it is a matter of the greatest importance. We are talking about improving the income of many Portuguese families, we are talking about helping to increase the purchasing power of the Portuguese people and thus contributing positively to an increase in domestic demand, resulting in the improvement of our economy, the dynamization of our market and, above all, contributing to the increase in the quality of life of the Portuguese people. It is urgent to recover lost time and, as this diploma shows, from an economic point of view, it is known that a small increase in the earnings of a lower-income worker has a direct impact on the economy because this increase in income is usually used directly in goods and services that create more jobs. I also recall that the increase in the minimum wage is a constitutional imperative provided for in Article 59. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, as a responsibility of the State and a right of workers. The PS will vote in favour of this diploma and has this matter as the greatest importance in its government programme, presenting, seriously, calculated and weighted, the commitment to update the minimum wage for the values that were planned and a new agreement with the social partners in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u167	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the election of a judge to the Constitutional Court in Chamber D. Maria. I appreciate everyone voting. Mr Joaquim Ponte has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take this opportunity when I take the floor, probably for the last time in this Parliament, to congratulate you, Mr. President, all of you and Mrs. Members and, also, give a special word to all those who, with their work and commitment, allow this House of Democracy to function properly. with regard to the initiative of the Government of the Azores, I would very much like to hope that it will be possible for all workers to receive a conditional wage corresponding to the standard of living of the most advanced economies of our Community, which we want more and more cohesion, solidarity and awareness of the imperative need to preserve peace, which is the first reason for its constitution. But, at the heart of the question put by this bill, it is important to recall the following: first, that this matter is, and must be, the area of competence of social consultation; second, that the Socialist Party has led to the loss of the agreement by its own Government, when it launched the country in the greatest and most serious crisis of democratic Portugal and culminated in an international financial aid agreement which has sought our national freedom and independence; third, that it was the Government of the PSD and the CDS which, with the support of the Portuguese families, has recovered Portugal hard and has relaunched it on a path of progress, economic and social recovery, of a reduction of unemployment and, in the form of social dialogue, has again increased the guaranteed minimum monthly wage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u169	Portugal owes the socialists many sacrifices, disappointments and also much suffering. Portugal owes the current government full independence, hope in a better life and a social consultation that will again raise the minimum wage, always following the new economic achievements. Portugal must therefore discourage the Socialists and owe the Government social peace and hope in a better and fairer life. Adventures are expensive. It tells the people that good intentions are full hell. We therefore reject the good intentions and work for the realizations, for the benefit of Portugal and Portuguese families and, in this case, of the Azorian families. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u170	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, we want to highlight that Bill No 167 / XII ( 2 ). a ), of this legislation, was unanimously approved in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and therefore we felt a register of curiosity about the behaviour of the PSD and CDS-PP banks in this regard, contrary to what they say and defend in the Azores. The proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores highlights a set of information which is, for us, very relevant and which should be mentioned here. In particular, that the consecration of the national minimum wage came after 25 April, and was therefore seen as a achievement of the freedom, democracy and dignity of the human person; that the national minimum wage was aimed at—and here we added'should'—to contribute in a decisive way to the substantial improvement of the living conditions of thousands of workers; and it denounces that, over the course of 39 years of democracy, the national minimum wage was losing value and, consequently, harming workers. They refer to the 2006 agreement, which imposes the national minimum wage of €500 in 2011, states that the agreement has not been fulfilled, does not refer to the responsibilities of PS, PSD and CDS in non-compliance with the social agreement. Therefore, we note here with some irony that Mr. PSD's Member calls for social consultation to justify the non-approval of this bill, when it was a social agreement that his Government, the PSD Government and the CDS-PP, did not comply with the failure to update the national minimum wage when it should have done so in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u173	The bill refers to a curious fact. It is that if the national minimum wage had been updated according to the value of inflation, in 2013 its value would have to be € 533. The bill also refers to the economic advantages of an increase in the national minimum wage, which we share, but we also add the impact that justice has on the distribution of wealth. It also says the bill that, and I quote, « The increase in national minimum wage still represents, and above all, a constitutional imperative, as a responsibility of the State and a right of workers». in this measure, we share in full what is the proposed law coming from the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the increase proposed here. It is clear that the increase proposed here is properly contextualized. The proposal is dated 2013, but it was here in the Assembly of the Republic for a long time without due discussion. However, in our view, it remains current because, despite the fact that 2013 and 2014 had been made a national minimum wage freeze, the fact is that the national minimum wage increased in 2015 to €505, when it was supposed to have passed in 2011 to €500 and suffered the update based on inflation. The national minimum wage of €505 in 2015 represents €449 net for workers, which is clearly insufficient for the cost of living we have today in our country. Now, we want here to denounce that if in 2011 the agreement had been met and if inflation values had been applied, surely today the value of the national minimum wage would not be €505, but would have, yes, a value greater than €533 referred to here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u174	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u175	Finally, we mean that the non-updating of the national minimum wage in 2011 led to the fact that between 2011 and 2014 each of the workers receiving the national minimum wage lost €1120 / year. This is the value of shame. The CFP understands that the valuation of wages is fundamental and therefore we propose that the national minimum wage should pass in 2016 to 600 €, for a reason for social justice and for a more fair distribution of wealth in our country, which is fundamental to building a more just and supportive country. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u176	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that this bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has the virtue of, being 2013, and stating here what it says, allowing us to make a comparison here. In fact, in 2013 the situation was similar to that described herein. There was massive unemployment of 18 %, while today unemployment is at 12, 8%, is at the level of what was in the time of the Socialist Party's government when the Socialist Party sank the country. Today, for 2013 the active population has grown—in fact, today there are about 4000 more people in the active population than there were in the time of the Socialist Party Government, which shows the recovery, achieved by this government, of the Portuguese economy. From 2013 to today, more than 200 000 jobs were created in Portugal. Therefore, the difference is also noticeable. All of this reflects what the work of this government and what this government has always said: the state in which we caught this country was in such a miserable and chaotic way in public finances, in the economy, in the destruction of the business fabric that in the first two years of this legislature we would have to take corrective measures, of amendment, of ratification, to create the conditions and the basis for, in the final part of the legislature, in the second part of the legislature, we then make the Country grow and create jobs. We've done it! It's done! Therefore, in this respect, this bill allows us to come here now to make this balance sheet and be up-to-date in the analysis that is made. I would like to highlight two positions. First, the position of the Socialist Party. How does the Socialist Party come here to announce that it will vote favourably for a bill with the content of this one, when it was the Socialist Party that frozen the progression of the national minimum wage, violating what was agreed in social consultation? How will the Socialist Party favourably vote on a proposal for a law on poverty levels, when it was the Socialist Party that frozen minimum, social and rural pensions, thus exacerbating poverty factors and poverty rates in the poorest and most deprived population in Portugal? We are in a calm conscience, because we, however, have already managed to overcome the Memorandum of Understanding, we have managed, in the wake of what the Socialist Party has made known from the Memorandum of Understanding, to update minimum, social and rural pensions and — stop! — in more difficult times, in times of austerity, we did what the Socialist Party did not, which was to update the national minimum wage, always in accordance with social consultation. Then, the Portuguese Communist Party came here to speak, in its speech, of the national minimum wage, of social consultation, of the freezing of what was agreed in social consultation. Now, I would like to remind you—even so, as the Portuguese Communist Party likes to say, to be registered for future memory—that the CGTP has always voted against all agreements made in social consultation. He voted for that in 2006,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u178	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u179	... and also voted against the latter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u180	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u181	... the latest update of the national minimum wage, from 485 € to 505 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u183	I'm done now, Madam President. So I think the Portuguese Communist Party does not have much moral authority, if you have any, to make the speeches you make here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u184	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to leave some notes on the proposed law that comes to us from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The first note is that the same date of 2013 and therefore this discussion has two years of delay, which should not have happened. The second note is that this bill was unanimously adopted by the various parties — PSD, CDS, PS, PCP and BE — and I am glad it was. It is that the Legislative Assembly examined the deepening of the impoverishment situation of many workers, although they do work, because they have a minimum wage which, in net terms, was below the poverty threshold. Therefore, this bill has every reason to be and has every reason to be voted on in good time, because even in 2013 this issue was raised several times in this Parliament by the Left Block and also by other parties. Obviously the bill also refers to compliance with the 2006 social agreement, which was in fact not met, because if it had been, we would have in 2015 a national minimum wage of €545 — coincidentally, in fact, with the proposal of the Left Block in relation to the values of the national minimum wage – and in 2016 a national minimum wage of €600. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been permanently polluted. For example, we have heard Mr Joaquim Ponte say that we are going to have a social consultation that will increase the national minimum wage. Wrong! Whoever has the competence to increase the national minimum wage is exactly the government, listening to the social partners. The social partners have no competence to make laws and will therefore not increase anything at all. This is within the competence of the Government. And it was that competence that the government did not exercise. And he did not exercise because he wanted to carry out the line that Passos Coelho introduced from the beginning of his mandate: impoverishment! For the workers there was never money, but, however, to save banks, there was always money. That was the brand. Today there are thousands of workers who, working, are poor. But that doesn't bother you. And, therefore, ‘they kick into the third ring’, that is, someone will solve — social consultation is that it will solve. It's not, no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the obligation of the Government, it was the obligation of this majority that did not comply. And it was this majority that caused in the country more impoverishment, failed to comply with social agreements and, today, comes here saying that this bill is extemporaneous. It's not you! They take the vote that, in 2013, despite the troika being here, they did there in the Azores, voting favourably. Keep consistency, because we're actually going to keep it! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u186	For an intervention, Mr. Jorge Rodrigues Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u187	Madam President, it is just to ask Mr Artur Rêgo the following: What is his morale when this government blocked the rise in national minimum wage, this government increased poverty, increased unemployment and cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What is your morale when this government sent 350 000 Portuguese out of the country? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u188	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, the general debate of Bill No 167 / XII ( 2 ) is concluded. ( a). We will consider, together and in general, the projects of lein.os 790 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Law on maternity and paternity support for the right to be born ( Citizens' Legislative Initiative) and 1021 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113/2011 of 29 November, by applying the payment of moderate rates at the termination of pregnancy, when performed by the woman's option during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy ( CDS-PP and PSD ). Members of the Ángela Guerra, PSD, Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP, Helena Pinto, BE, Isabel Alves Moreira, PS, Heloísa Apollonia, Os Verdes, and Inês Teotónio Pereira, CDS-PP. Mrs. Angela Guerra has the floor to present Bill No. 1021 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, in addition to a citizen's legislative initiative, which I shall, in due course, refer to, a joint law of the PSD and the CDS, which is limited, and only to determine that the woman should pay moderate fees in the following cases of voluntary interruption of pregnancy (IVG): first, when there is no medical justification; second, when she is not already exempt from this payment under the general regime; and third, only with regard to the act which carries out the termination of pregnancy (i.e. surgical or medicinal products), thus continuing to exempt the payment of moderate fees in respect of all other acts, such as consultations and preparatory examinations or subsequent consultations to the intervention. And speaking in moderate rates, it would be worth remembering that in 2011 only 4, 3 million Portuguese were exempt from moderate rates and in 2015 this number rose to 6 million free citizens ( in a universe of 8 million registered citizens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u190	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u191	It should also be noted that the enlargement of this universe is mainly based on the fact that in 2011 only those who had incomes under €485 are exempt from these rates, with the current government increasing this limit to €628, covering by this way a much higher number of citizens, besides having also been approved legislation exempting from the payment of moderate fees all and any young people up to the age of 18. That is to say, there are 6 million Portuguese exempt from the payment of moderate fees by the other criteria which the law defines and, even if they are now being applied, the question of access is always safeguarded by the fact that they can meet other requirements which have conferred on them such exemption, particularly the most worrying: economic! Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: PSD and CDS banks understood that, because of equity in access to services and health care, it does not make sense to distinguish positively the woman who interrupts pregnancy by choice from other citizens who are subject to other criteria for the purposes of the exemption under consideration. We understand that women who interrupt pregnancy by choice must be subject to the same criteria as other citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u193	That is, if they fall within any of the criteria for obtaining the exemption or exemption provided for in the law, they will naturally be exempt or exempted from this payment; if they do not meet any of these criteria, they should pay as any other citizen. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if better management is promoted, resources are released to those who truly need them, so users are made aware of the choices and adequacy of the services to be used and so they are valued. Let me make it clear: we are not reviewing any rules concerning the legal regime that allows women freely to choose to resort to voluntary termination of pregnancy up to 10 weeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u194	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u195	We're just doing what I just described.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u197	with regard to the citizens' legislative initiative, which today is also under discussion, I would first of all like to congratulate the more than 48 000 electors (some of whom I think are present in the galleries), who have legitimately subscribed to it, and to say that for the PSD Parliamentary Group there are clearly included proposals that we absolutely reject, such as requiring that the ultrasound be verified and signed by the woman. There are also proposals that, in our view, should be better analysed and evaluated. In fact, many have already been identified by the Christmas Working Group, which, as it is known, resulted from an initiative of the parties of the majority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u199	... why we demand that both diplomas be lowered, without a vote, for discussion on the speciality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of these issues is proportional to the fragmentation of arguments that can be brought in accordance with the inherent concepts of a personal, social, moral, religious, political or philosophical nature, so the legislator must, in our view, be guided by the legal solutions that enable the greatest possible consensus, in absolute respect for the fundamental rights of each and every one of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP and PSD today present an initiative that we consider fair and reasonable, that the realization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy by woman option becomes subject to the same moderate rates as other acts provided by the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u202	That's it, and that's it, that's it. I repeat: the IVG by choice of women becomes equal to other acts provided by the National Health Service, obviously applying the exemption criteria provided for in the law. Why is this initiative fair? Because, currently, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy by option of the woman benefits from a general and absolute exemption from payment of moderate rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u203	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u204	...what does not happen in relation to other acts. We believe that there are no criteria for justice and fairness here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u205	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u206	If a person needs a cardiorespiratory resuscitation he/she pays a moderate rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u207	It's wrong, I shouldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u208	If a woman makes a mammography, pays moderate rate; if a person does a magnetic resonance to the skull, pays moderate rate; if a person needs to do an x-ray or apply gessated or orthopedic devices on the leg, foot, arm or spine due to an accident, pays moderate rate or even if a person needs cardiological examinations, pays moderate rate. These are just some of the examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u209	Some of the injustices!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u210	So we ask ourselves: why should the voluntary interruption of pregnancy by choice of women have a preferential treatment in relation to hundreds and hundreds of other acts? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u211	We find no reason in principle for this to happen and it is therefore a matter of justice that we present this initiative. Madam President, I ask you to have the House distributed, so that it may be known to everyone in the event of ignorance, the regime concerning the payment of moderate fees, where there are hundreds and hundreds of acts. Why is this initiative reasonable? I only give two reasons. First, because the moderate rate applies only when the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is achieved by a woman's option. Consultations and examinations of previous obstetrics or subsequent necessary care should continue to be exempt from the payment of moderate rates. Secondly, this initiative is reasonable because women who are exempt from the payment of moderate fees will continue to be exempt in general terms. I give some examples: all women under the age of 18 will not pay a moderate rate; all women in situations of economic insufficiency or dependent on the household aggregate will not pay a moderate rate; all women unemployed will not pay a moderate rate; all women with a disability level equal to or greater than 60 % will not pay a moderate rate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question of reasonableness, justice and fairness. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was the 21st century, more specifically on 11 February 2007, when one of the most terrible discriminations of women ended in Portugal. In other words, women could finally have an abortion without being persecuted, pointed to their fingers, humiliated, brought to court as criminals or even arrested. Women's health was defended, illegal abortion, carried out as many times in inhuman conditions, had the days counted. And this historic decision was taken by the Portuguese people through their vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On 11 February, dignity triumphed over humiliation, the right to health against suffering, women's rights against obscurantism, humanism against barbarity. Since then, we have a law on IVG, applied in public health services, perfectly stabilized. The numbers indicate until the number of abortions has decreased in our country, which shows that the law passed in 2007, by a large majority in this Assembly of the Republic, is an appropriate law that promotes health. A group of citizens and citizens presented to the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative for citizens. We reject the proposals put forward. We believe that they are in conflict with the reality of the country and that they only aim at a reversal of abortion legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They may present the proposals as « family defence» or « birth promotion», but just read them to realize that they have a revenge brand and aim to penalise women who resort to abortion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u214	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u215	They do not respect that they can decide and that they do not have to justify their decision. The promoters of this initiative cannot accept that they have lost the popular vote and persist in pointing their fingers at women and penalizing them because they believe that women are guilty. However, women are not guilty and have the right to decide whether or not to interrupt a pregnancy. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] A lack of humanism comes to the most despotted when proposing that the woman have to sign the ultrasound before aborting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u216	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u217	In addition to the fact that this method is completely foreign to health care, it is important to underline here, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the evil of this act of true psychological terrorism. The legislative initiative of citizens is all constructed to segregate women who abort. All exemptions and all fees were withdrawn. Here are moderate rates and licences in the post-abortion period. It is seen that only permits are allowed in the case of spontaneous abortion, leaving out the abortion by the option of the woman, but also abortion by rape or malformation of the fetus. Evil is what is present in this citizens' legislative initiative! The majority of us would not say that they only want to change the moderate rates, because, if so, you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I voted without fear today! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u218	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u219	I shall conclude, Madam President, by thanking the tolerance. This citizen legislative initiative has a very clear objective: to return to the times of humiliation, to those times that were rejected by the Portuguese people in the polls in 2007. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and I would like the House to speak today on this — we will not go back! It is not possible to do this to the Portuguese people who voted in the polls. [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u220	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who respect regiment times. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PS makes this debate with the historical responsibility to have pacified the scourged society with clandestine, humiliating, unequal, deadly abortion. We know from the society's assimilation of a fair weighting of values that allows IVG in exceptional cases such as rape and, since 2007, in a correct realization of the fight against the dark tunnel of death abortion and sequelae, of abortion of poverty, up to the tenth week of pregnancy by decision of the woman, within her personality and autonomy. We take advantage of the epiphenomenon of the citizens' initiative to remember that Portugal has a just law. The absence of the law was the way of collective shame. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The law prevented the liberalisation, without rules, of the IVG. The main objective of decriminalization of pregnancy was achieved and should continue to be continued with the reduction of maternal mortality related to the termination of pregnancy ( 92 reported maternal deaths related to clandestine abortion verified between 2002 and 2007 and zero maternal deaths related to abortion in 2011 and 2012 ). It is peaceful—we want to believe that for all parties—that one cannot violate the intimacy of a woman and that she is pregnant, so we cannot make the psychological conflict between mother/ fetus and mother/parent, which, moreover, may be a rapist. The general feeling of a society with humanist values, insusceptible of cohesion, was translated by the voice of doctors and the Minister of Health. I am referring to the hypothetical state violence of forcing a woman to sign and look at an ultrasound. The existing data show that in recent years the use of contraceptives has increased in Portugal, increased the use of family planning consultations, decreased the number of IVGs performed. It is not true that IVG is being trivialized and promoted. It is so little true that Portuguese women are using IVG to replace contraception. It is very low the number of women who repeat IVG (the rate of abortion and repetition is lower than the European average ). If the citizens' initiative is a legally and morally defenceless epiphenomenon, the PSD/CDS initiative is factually incomprehensible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As the Minister of Health explained, moderate rates are determined by categories and not by isolated acts. Recently, this majority has changed the law, as also referred to by the Minister of Health. The bottom line is this: the right is reminded of this bill on the basis of an indefensible initiative. For four years, nothing! Well! Why now, then? Mother-child health acts are exempt from rates and there is a question of very violent secrecy associated with the condition of resources. See the face of the woman who the fees can create: often the condition of resources in a family aggregate situation implies revealing, proving the condition of resources of the husband and the family aggregate. at this time, the secrecy of a painful, personal and intransmissible decision ends and, at that time, they violate, misogynistically, the individual rights of the woman. I end up as I began, recalling the historic responsibility of the PS by a law assimilated by society with collective memory of a multitude of abandoned names for which the legislator arrived too late. We are therefore ready to face the people and vote for the citizens' and the majority's initiative today. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u222	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say, with all due respect, that the Greens disagree with the citizens' legislative initiative which is now being debated in the Assembly of the Republic and also disagree with the bill which today the right has presented tow. These initiatives are based on false assumptions and omit extraordinarily relevant assumptions. The data on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy show that the current regime is preventing illegal abortions — those performed at the woman’s request would be clandestine abortions. They also reveal to us that the care for abortion complications has decreased; they reveal to us that the deaths of women associated with the termination of pregnancy have not occurred and reveal to us that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy has been decreasing. Can anyone here say this isn't a win for the country? Clearly, it is, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There is an argument contained in the legislative initiative of citizens that cannot even be tolerated, which is associated with the issue of the interruption of pregnancy to the breakdown of birth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already had a debate on birth. Raise the finger who made here any reference to the issue of termination of pregnancy? Absolutely no one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u224	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u225	And they didn't do it for a very clear reason: it has nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it! Those who are concerned about the breakdown of birth in Portugal must be concerned, must act and must raise their voice about the breakdown of the economic conditions of Portuguese families in order to realize why the desired fertility rate does not correspond to the actual fertility rate. The question of birth has nothing to do with what the initiative raises, everything has to do with what we discussed in that debate on birth and what I said earlier. Speaking of the matter of birth, it is important to say that, after an illegal abortion, many women can no longer become pregnant again. We have this in mind so that we can associate things in a perfectly realistic way. On the subject of moderate rates, it is important to discuss it quite specifically. As we know, moderate rates have the function of preventing people from using the National Health Service. This is the function of the moderate rate. Now, if these women do not use the National Health Service, they use illegal abortion. We're back in the past, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Is that what you are proposing? This is not compatible with the national plan to combat illegal abortion. Let us therefore be consistent. What is not really understood is why, at this point in the course of the legislature, the majority come forward with this proposal. More: what is not understood is why the majority of water loads today want to hide a vote, do not do away with it and do not want to take themselves in the fullness of its initiative here in the Assembly of the Republic. Do we want to discuss it? We vote for you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And, moreover, they are voting on the citizens' legislative initiative! What do you have to hide? What do you not want to take with a vote that should be done today in the Portuguese Parliament? One on the nail and the other on the ironing! Is that what you're talking about? [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u226	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u227	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, as far as Portuguese women are concerned, even you should be a little more coherent. by women's rights, I repeat, by women's rights, the rejection of these initiatives is fundamental as national design. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, PS, PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Assembly of the Republic is confronted with two proposals which constitute a profound setback in terms of access to sexual and reproductive rights, a deep backwardness in access to health and a deep backwardness in terms of women's right of free choice. In an attempt to settle accounts with the sovereign and progressive decision of the Portuguese people, the proposals put forward by the PSD and the CDS-PP and by citizens' initiative intend that the economic conditions dictate each woman's decisions again, thus returning to a not very distant past, in which women with less resources, working women, were pushed to perform interruptions of pregnancy in stairwells and under humiliating and indignant conditions, which in some cases cost their own life. We remember what was the social scourge of clandestine abortion and the complications arising there in the lives and health of women and we remember and pay tribute to the long struggle of women to defend sexual and reproductive rights. And it is precisely because we do not forget that we reject any proposal that introduces obstacles to access to IVG, imposing in the secretariat the backwardness that the people refused in referendum. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposals under discussion use and abuse falsehoods to justify the unjustifiable. They point out that IVG is used as a contraceptive method, but official data fully refute that statement when a reduction in the number of IVGs occurs, when the number of IVGs in Portugal is much lower than in the countries of Europe, when the overwhelming majority of women who use IVG did so for the first time — more than 70% — or when women who use IVG are unemployed, do not have incomes or have low wages. They talk about equity, but what they want is to introduce economic obstacles to access to IVG with the imposition of moderate rates. The problem of moderate rates is solved by its elimination, as the CFP proposes, and not by its enlargement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u232	That's another discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u233	As for birth, we can only classify this argument of demagogy. If the Portuguese have no more children, it is not because of the IVG, but because of the wild layoffs, precariousness, contracts each month, week and up to day, low wages and the social disprotection of those most in need. All of these were political options defended by those who, hypocritically, want to prevent access to IVG today. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives we are discussing today want to impose on Portuguese the concepts of PSD and CDS, which are retrograde and reactionary conceptions on the sexuality of women and their role in society. The PSD and CDS-PP want to impose the return to pregnancy interruptions without safety for women's health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u235	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u236	The authors of the initiatives also want to impose psychological coercion on women when they want to force them to sign an ultrasound and pay moderate fees, and they want to hide this by refusing to vote on the initiatives today. What is really under discussion is the reversal of the most important and recent achievements of women, which the PSD and the CDS have never accepted. And what is now in danger is the right of women's free choice, it is the right to access health, it is the right to dignity. from the PCP, we will firmly combat this brutal attack led by the PSD and CDS on women's rights and continue to be on the side of those who argue that the decision to have a child should be taken in freedom and conscience. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming this initiative as an example of a full exercise of democracy and representing an effective participation of citizens in the legislative process. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u239	in another place, we have already dealt with the issue of moderate rates. With regard to this initiative of more than 48 000 citizens, I would like to highlight two points that we consider relevant and worthy of reflection. The first is about conscientious objection and the necessary clarification in that its evocation does not prejudice the necessary follow-up of patients. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u240	The second concerns the issue of termination allowances and, in particular, the fact that this allowance is allocated to 100 %, thus enjoying an exceptional nature when compared to other medical lows which aim to provide protection due to preventing work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u242	Finally, we want to point out that respect for the outcome of the last referendum does not prevent the effective fulfilment of the various legal precepts, which are already in force but have not always gone from the rules to the facts. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this subject is concluded. I should like to state the next item on the agenda, to which no time has been allocated for debate: motions for resolutions Nos 117 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on Operational Unit of Oriented Electronic Governance for Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014 and 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Creation, Operation and Location of the Operational Unit of Electronic Governance Oriented to Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon, on 23 May 2014. I remind the House that still runs in the Sala Dona Maria the election of a judge to the Constitutional Court. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not yet voted in favour of doing so. The next item on our agenda is for speeches by Members under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, i.e. individual interventions of Members not accounted for during the intervention times of parliamentary groups. So, we have two gentlemen. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The four years of this legislation, which have caused deep wounds in Portuguese social fabric and whose scars are still far from healing, have settled in a set of principles, set out in a very basic way and with a rhetoric very close to a certain simplism, whose effectiveness, however, has not ceased to bear fruit. The message of the government, constructed, tested and practiced until exhaustion, was repeated systematically until it became a dogmatic political idea, whose authenticity was no longer questioned by the most careless. This message was, moreover, well-liked by some bands of the Portuguese population, more receptive to a speech formatted in guilt, atonement, authority and a certain idea of penalizing morality. in this key package of ideas on which all the discursive message from the government was based the main ones were: that the previous government called the troika, for having led the country to excessive indebtedness; that the Government of Passos Coelho / Paulo Portas inherited in 2011 a country in bankruptcy; that this government was obliged to apply the Memorandum of Understanding negotiated by the previous government, hence the recessive measures for the Portuguese; that the suffering of the Portuguese in this period has originated in the previous governments; and that, despite having been misdesigned — as an excuse for the failures — the troika programme has ended up being a success, Portugal is now a success in the European framework and, from now on, expects us to grow sustained in the years to come. These five key ideas, these dogmas, have been the only defense of the government in the face of the suffering of the Portuguese—of course, we still hear it here today by the voice of my friend Joaquim Ponte—and, as dogmas they are, can only be fought with logic and logic based on facts and numbers. So let us see: in April 2011 Eurostat and INE disclosed the revised official public debt data of 2010 — 93 % of GDP. In a climate of great agitation, the markets closed to Portugal and the Portuguese Parliament led an alternative international funding mechanism to the troika. Portugal, with a government of management, without access to markets, was obliged to call the troika, under general endorsement of the right, which finally saw the opportunity to ascend to power and implement the political agenda that it has always ambitioned. All this, let us not forget, with the precious help from the left to the left of this Parliament. After four years and a successful economic adjustment process, public debt is now 129 % of GDP, increasing more than 35 percentage points with this government. And, see: in 2015, the average public debt in the euro area is, imagine, 93 %! After three years of austerity policies, the best achieved in Europe, was an average in public debt of equal value to Portugal when markets closed in 2011. I believe that bankruptcy, as a basis for the request for external aid, is clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Want to persist in this chavão, remind me of the sermon of St. Anthony to the Fish of Father Antonio Vieira, an indispensable reading piece for any politician, who I dare not recommend because I am starting from the principle that everyone here knows him. To exclude from the history of these lead years, the international context and the impreparation of European institutions in 2010 and 2011 in the face of the sovereign debt crisis, is to reduce political thinking to the minimum degree. Since then, and especially since the ECB, in 2012, and the European Commission, more recently, have changed leadership, other ways have opened up. Fortunately for Portugal, the Coelho Pass Government was able to count on this change of attitude. To confirm what I have just said with facts and numbers, it is enough to review the ECB's statements and their consequences throughout the euro area since 2012. As for the Memorandum of Understanding, it has far enough backs to have been praised by the PSD representative in the negotiations, Eduardo Catroga, and by Passos Coelho, who declared that it would even go beyond the troika, but also serves as an excuse on the right benches whenever, because of it, the people suffer, spread unemployment and emigration sucks the best of our young people. Between dogmas and facts, the truth is that the Prime Minister said he would go beyond the troika, but he fell short of the troika in all goals, except in privatizations, where he exceeded by much the value of 5000 million provided for in the memorandum. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current success of Portugal, so propagated by the government, is something that we would all sincerely wish to do, but unfortunately, after four years, the revenue of the PSD and CDSdeixa - us, after all, a country with 129 % debt, a very high deficit — 5, 8% of in the first quarter of 2015 — and a growth of 0, 9 % in 2014, this when in Ireland GDP grew 4, 8 % and Spain grew 1, 4 %. The European Commission's forecasts point to the rise of the structural deficit by 2016 and so Portugal will not comply with the Budget Treaty, which obliges a decrease of 0, 5 percentage points each year. This can be seen in a particularly favourable framework with oil falling, low interest rates, as they have never been, and exchange rates that justify at least half the growth observed. There is no other conclusion: this government's incompetence! [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, official unemployment and real unemployment exceeded the million Portuguese, far more than the period before the troika, which, at the time, led the President of the Republic to appeal to a civic assault. The numbers of emigration in this period exceeded the level of shame. I'm sorry, ladies. Members, the burden of shame, as Portuguese, to assist, impotent, the waste of years and years of investment in the qualification of our young people and the family dismemberment of thousands of Portuguese, even above with the express encouragement of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What government is it that cannot even use its best assets, its human frameworks, the people who make up its living tissue, the brains, the arms, the strength that the country needs to avenge, that it cannot instill in them hope and conditions to synchronize in its country? Is this the country of success of the post-troika? A greater balance in the external trade balance and the continued increase in exports have been good news, but in one case it is circumstantial — and not for good reasons — and in another, it results from continuous policies of several years and several governments. For example, without public investment, which has been so vicious in these four years, made in previous governments, for example in the ports of Matosinhos and Sines, export numbers would be very different. I am not going to focus on sectoral policies, although I would like to be able to use this forum to talk about culture. But talk about what? from the decrease of 0, 5 % to 0, 1 % of the State budget for culture? of the Cinema Law, copied from the PS but excommunicated of all that contained innovative and bold, which today only obtains funding equal to the old cinema law of 2010? the openings of projects launched by socialist governments, showing the most complete deprivation of means and total political irrelevance? Or also the recurrent illegalities perpetrated by the Secretary of State of Culture, such as the abuses of the Heritage Law, confirmed by the Lisbon Administrative Court, or the abuses of the rules of the Public Administration in the nominations of leaders, confirmed by the President of CRESAP? It's not worth it; it's too sad! But this leads us to the issue of impunity and the lack of limits on smell. The lack of transparency and the use of the State machine in the service of party or personal interests is serious in any circumstances, but it is particularly serious in the context of widespread cuts and restrictions on public and politically offensive machinery when Passos Coelho made the transparency and departition of the State an electoral flag. The social security contests, which were won in full by PSD members and CDS, were only the most visible tip of this heavy clientileism iceberg that navigates unimpossibly and freely between the state machine, as seen in the recent report of the Court of Auditors on the privatisation of EDP and REN. It is a demolition document, which denounces promiscuities, conflicts of interest and high losses to the State resulting from privatisations carried out by this Government. Even at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we attended taking embassies and post-diplomatics by personal and partisan clients. That is how we know that we are coming to the end of a political cycle, that is, when, in front of the eyes of all, without any shame, we witness the capture of places of the State. The greatness of political action, if any, fades into less of a phosphorus! Open... This cycle of crisis / recession / punishment / regeneration was a profitable period, yes, but for those who won with studies, opinions and commissions, taking into account the revenue of 8000 million obtained in privatizations. There is no worse misery than the one who wipes out the spirit, who takes away the intelligence, who manipulates the will and annihilates the reaction. Maybe it's the worst, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, be the illusion. As Chico Buarque's poem prays: « Happiness lived so close/ That, crazy, I thought it was mine». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Guilherme Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u245	For an intervention also in accordance with Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic have the floor Mr José Ribeiro and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I come to speak in the Portuguese Parliament on behalf of the Portuguese of Olivet. Not from the territory, but from people. I'm talking about the olive trees and the call they make us. Whether Spanish or Portuguese, or both conditions, is Olivence, while the people who belong there, which matters. I greet, in the gallery, the newly elected Alcaide de Olivença, Manuel González Andrade, as well as the authorships of the Socialist Party Obrero Español, of the People's Party, including the previous Alcaide, Bernardino Piriz, and the United Left, and the numerous representation of the civil society of olive groves, thanking and welcoming your presence in the Assembly of the Republic. Welcome! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The situation of Olivence, in the face of our law, international law and the Constitution, is known. in our eyes, it is Portuguese territory under Spanish administration—I ask you to keep this expression. Portugal has a position, Spain supports the reverse, the border is not defined between the Guadiana confluences with the Caia River (north) and the Cuncos River (south), with no border landmarks between 801 and 900 in the Olivet area. That is not what I want to deal with — diplomatic dependence will be exceeded when it comes to time. I agree with the position maintained by the Portuguese State, which has solid grounds for international law and argue that Portugal and Spain should in any event deepen friendly relations and cooperation, even more sharing the common framework of the European Union. As neighbors, we're fine. And the good and necessary is that we be friends: neighbors and friends. I had already been in Olivet in the late 70s, but it was only a few years ago that I met a different Olivet through the olive trees. in processing a petition, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have known an association of Spanish law, the Austra-Guadiana, which, since 2008, with vision and generosity, develops remarkable work of revitalization of the Portuguese matrix in Olivença and Táliga and promotes an elevated ideal of biculturality. It has done so with the regional and municipal authorities, who participate in this vision and support it, giving it expression. Today, in Olivença you see Portuguese footwear and, in the toponymity of the beautiful historical center, all squares, streets and crossings show the current Spanish name and, in impeccable tile, the corresponding old name in Portuguese. The luxurious roots are olive tree pride, which preserves admirable Portuguese monumental heritage, including a precious temple of manual style, the Church of Magdalene, the Mercy, which is a member of our Union of Mercy, and the walls and reference buildings, sign of a rich history that plunges deep into our sea expansion of Ceuta to Discover Brazil. The work of the Autra-Guadiana has no possible payment and expresses the recognition to the three musketers of biculturality and bilingualism who, here, are also four: the Joaquin Fuentes Becerra, Eduardo Machado, the José Antonio Gonzalez Carrillo, the group writer, and the D’ Artagnan, who is a woman and artist, Raquel Sandes Antunez. Nothing would have been possible without them and without those who join them. This Olivet, where I have gone dozens of times and why I fell in love — "Olivenza, my love" — is a unique, absolutely unique land: our little Alsace, as I say, in the line of Portugal and Spain. It is this ambiguity, this double belonging, these simultaneously Spanish and Portuguese traits, which make Olivet different from everything else and unmistakable—that is its brand, its capital. in the background, it is no wonder that, looking at the entire Peninsular History, there could be, as regards Portugal and Spain, a place where the border is not border, where the border is not a tangent line but dry lines of the two, a border that, instead of separating, embraces and gathers. There is, there is this place and this place is Olivença, which celebrates the 500 years of the special of D. Manuel. A land also Alentejan, as we can easily perceive next to Guadiana, opposite Juromenha, or in the village of São Jorge da Lor, whose dozens of chimneys don't cheat—looking at them, we heard the accent of the Song. This social and cultural movement has expanded. The Plus-Guadiana promotes, whenever possible, festivals called Lusophonias, where artists from other CPLP countries have already been. The last one, already in 2015, had two sessions: in Olivet, celebrating the Portuguese olive oil, which has no orthographic agreement, and, in Lisbon, on the Book Fair. The previous Lusophonias in October 2012 had taken a huge step: on the street, in front of the population and all the leaders of the municipality, the Aguadaiana reported that it was going to follow up the demands of Portuguese nationality on which it was addressed by several olive trees. Since the end of last year, some proceedings have been clarified, several have seen Portuguese citizenship recognised, keeping Spanish, in accordance with the laws of both countries. As it is public, it is already about 200 and there are others who are looking for it. In Oliveça, we have today, therefore, citizens who are only Portuguese, others who are only Spanish and others, olives of pure strain, which are simultaneously Portuguese and Spanish—this is the living illustration of biculturality. in this flowering of the Portuguese roots in Olivença, there are, however, difficulties, that are on our side. There are no traffic problems. I say, by grace, that it is possible to go to Olivence without passing through Spain, from the opening in 2000 to the ruins of the historic Help Bridge, of the new bridge over the Guadiana that links Elvas and Olivet. There, you don't see a single soldier, a cop, a civilian guard, a Republican guard, a rigged wire, a cannon, rifle or machine gun, not even a fist. The circulation is free, crossing without obstacles. However, it is as if we did not see the side there. There's a mental barrier. We see the north Badajoz, we see the south Villanueva del Fresno, but Olivença is like we don't see: there's a taboo, like a forbidden in relationships. It is a problem of ours, which has still been felt in almost no public attention to Olive Day at the Book Fair. And this problem — of melindre, of embarrassment, of discomfort — is only ours; there is nothing similar on the Spanish side. Another associated problem is the result of the diplomatic issue. Whenever it is necessary to deal with any common interest, involving Olivence and, therefore, to deal with those who administer the administration, whether the municipality or the Board of Extremadura, whether the Government in Madrid, the process for or enter through endless labyrinths. Why? Because the Portuguese authorities cannot practice acts or conclude agreements that directly or indirectly involve the recognition of Spanish sovereignty over Olivet. The caution is right, but we must find a way to care for, under the penalty of unjustly harming the populations, the desirable cooperation and, after all, the Portuguese of Olivet. I give examples: if we want to intensify the teaching of Portuguese, our Ministry of Education can do so easily in Badajoz, with their authorities. Not in Olivet! If you want to make a great Luso-Spanish musical festival, our cultural authorities can work with Zafra, but not with Olivence. If we want to organise canoeing competitions in Spanish-Portuguese cooperation, we can do it at any appropriate place in Guadiana, less in the magnificent border water plan to the castle of Juromenha. The new bridge was only possible after a tortured political-diplomatic process that took years. In 2009, the creation of the European Central Guadiana Territorial Cooperation Group was announced, with seven municipalities in each part, in parallels of Barrancos, south, and Borba, north, but the process went. Why? Because of the historical difference, that is, because Olivences and Thaliga were part of this Grouping. Now, the Euro-Cidade Elvas-Badajoz is being established. Field Major will join, but Olivence, having the same political will, cannot do it. It's this kind of problem that matters to know how to overcome. The solution is the expression I used at the beginning of this intervention: « Portuguese territory under Spanish administration ». This concept — territory under the administration of another — is familiar to us because we had it in our Constitution with reference to Macao. But the parallel here. It only serves to point out that it is a consecrated concept. In other words, it is possible for Portugal to make this formal qualification, in a legislative act, in resolution, in political declaration by diplomatic note, including the relevant grounds for law and reservations to be specified. Spain does not even have to agree with this Portuguese statement, which will of course not, because this would mean recognition of Portugal's rights. For this purpose, one unilateral, with the basis of law, made by one party and known by the other. Portugal is, in fact, sufficient that the other party or any third party cannot invoke historical rights against them, the fact that, with regard to matters of common interest, they are dealing with the authorities which in fact exercise the Administration on Olivet and agree on what is appropriate. And at the same time, Spain cannot feel confused with such a statement, which only matters to us, since it has been known for 200 years since the Vienna Congress in 1815 that Portugal claims to be the Portuguese territory, as it was resolved at the Congress that regulated the end of the various European Napoleonic wars, that this case is still a remaining one. However, the declaration of 'Portuguese territory under Spanish administration' does not add anything against Spain ; on the contrary, by protecting at least the status quo as regards Portugal, it ensures that the healthy and unbiased development of bilateral, local and regional relations does not affect fundamental issues in which neighbouring States differ, nor can it be invoked, on the one hand, on the other. Nothing more than what is necessary, nothing less than the indispensable. I leave the suggestion for maturation and, weighted as solid, to be realized soon. From there, everything can flow without any more obstacles or taboos. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the visit of illustrious olive trees. The olive trees like us and look for us. It is very comforting and comforting to see him, I felt him, understand him and share him in such difficult times, uncertain and loaded with indifference. Many seek nationality as an ancestral reunion with themselves, a mark of a singular racial biculturality. It is important that, since the Aquen-Guadiana, we also visit them, that we appreciate this magnificent land, that we cultivate the relationship, that we highlight the unique framework that is. I leave to you the invitation in the name of the olive trees, to know better this our little Alsace, «Olivença, my love». Let us live fully the spirit of the particular manual: Olive oil, be Spanish, be Portuguese, be both things, and that relations flow, that relations shine, for the benefit of the peoples and our economic and cultural progress. No line divides us, all ties bring us together. [[CDS-PP, PSD and public applause from the galleries.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] [[CDS-PP and PSD contraprotests.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the rest of the people's souls. Ladies and gentlemen who are protesting, I want to point out that no one can manifest himself in the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic card. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which the presences of five Mrs are added. Members who have not been able to register themselves, thanking 211 Members, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the votes with the votes of regret. Let us read them and vote for them and, in the end, on behalf of the two, we will keep a minute of silence. So we started by voting No 295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of former Member John Eduardo Ferraz de Abreu ( PS ), who will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u248	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 26th, at the age of 98, the doctor died, and former member of the Assembly of the Republic, João Eduardo Coelho Ferraz de Abreu. Born in Sever do Vouga on May 28, 1917, João Eduardo Ferraz de Abreu was a doctorate at the University of Porto ( 1941 ). Enlisting in the Navy in August 1944, Captain de Mar-e-Guerra was promoted in 1972. Director of the Marine Hospital, he worked as a surgeon in several hospitals before and after April 25, 1974. Militant of the Socialist Party, Ferraz de Abreu was coordinator of the health sector in the Office of Studies ( between 1980 and 1988 ), member of the National Commission ( 1983 ) and National Secretary and spokesman for health from 1985 to 1987. He also performed the functions of President of the Socialist Party, between 1987 and 1991, under the leadership of the General Secretaries-Vítor Constâncio and Jorge Sampaio, always with enormous dedication to socialist ideals, which maintained until the end of his long life. Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the III, IV, V and VI Legislatures, representing the Aveiro district, incorporated the Parliamentary Health Commission, which was Vice-President between 1983 and 1986, was Vice-President of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, between 1983 and 1986, and also assumed the leadership of the bank between 1986 and 1987. Between 1991 and 1995 he was Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. in the exercise of his mandate and his parliamentary office, he always earned the respect and admiration of all, not only his comrades, but also his political opponents. After leaving the Assembly of the Republic, he chaired the Committee of the National Council for the Policy of the Third Age and more recently joined the General Council of the Portuguese Cardiology Foundation. in the city plan, he was a member of the Municipal Assembly of Sever do Vouga. Throughout his life, Ferraz de Abreu was a great fighter for democracy, being remembered, at the time of his disappearance, as someone who always knew how to bring into political activity—national, regional and local—respect for the other and exemplary urbanity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Ferraz de Abreu and sends condolences to his family and friends».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u249	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 295 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of vote No 298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of researcher João Luís Inês Vaz ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « João Luís Inês Vaz, born in the Soito, municipality of Sabugal, on November 13, 1951, died last June 23 in the city of Taruca, at the age of 63. Professor of profession, high school and university, PhD in History of Archaeology, has developed an indelible civic and political activity in the district of Viseu and throughout the country. He was mayor of the City Council of Viseu, where he established residence, and Civil Governor of the Viseu district, functions that he performed with extreme dedication and with high brightness, leaving an image of great competence and rigor. He also integrated the social bodies of numerous cultural and scientific associations, with the spirit that has always guided him, of serving the community and serving his fellow citizens, currently presiding over the Centro de Estudos Aquilino Ribeiro. As a researcher, his work is vast, particularly in the areas of History and above all Archaeology, where he has made a strong contribution to deepening the knowledge of our most remote origins, leaving his name associated with numerous books, some of them translated into various languages, scientific articles and excavations that help us to realize the long evolution of man in society. John Luís Inês Vaz, with his example, honored and dignified politics and citizenship. Being a man of consensus, he never ceased at any time to affirm his convictions, making the consequent ruptures when they were at issue guiding principles of his political intervention. He was a man of integrity, frontal, generous and always available to help and work for the community, who with his premature death lost one of his best and most dynamic citizens. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, evokes the memory of John Luís Inês Vaz and presents to his family the most sympathy".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 298 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. The vote on vote No 291/ XII ( 4 ) followed. ( a ) — Solidarity with Tekbar Haddi, mother of the young Saharan murdered ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves and the PS abstention.]] It was as follows: The case of Tekbar Haddi is generating a wave of solidarity in Europe. This Saharan mother was on hunger strike for 36 days just to claim that the Moroccan government would return her child's body to give her a decent burial. His son, Mohamed Lamin Haidala, aged 21, was attacked in January by Moroccan settlers in the capital of Western Sahara, El Aaiún. After being stabbed in the neck, he was arrested by the Moroccan authorities without being given medical assistance beyond a suture by a nurse without anesthesia or disinfectants. After two days when he was held on the floor of the squad, Mohamed Lamin Haidala ended up dying, victim of the attack injuries. Because of the refusal of doctors and authorities, the family was not entitled to any explanation, written document or autopsy, or even to Mohamed's body. In addition, Mohamed's family house remains surrounded by Moroccan authorities and none of the attackers were arrested. The mother, Tekbar, then began the hunger strike to demand justice for her son's death. In May it was received in Strasbourg by a group of MEPs and received numerous statements of support. on June 20, Tekbar Haddi had to suspend the strike after being hospitalized for the fifth time. A chain of international solidarity was then created, which was expressed by 24 hours of hunger strike in chains. More than 400 organizations have joined this cause. on 2 July, human rights activists also made 24 hours of hunger strike in Lisbon, in front of the Assembly of the Republic. The case of this Saharan mother's struggle against the Moroccan authorities only for the right to bury her child and do justice to her death must mobilize us all for the defence of human rights and the most basic principles of humanism. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its solidarity with the struggle of mother Saharani Tekbar Haddi for the right to seek justice for the murder of her son, and calls upon all responsible entities to respect and enforce the human rights of this people and this woman. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u252	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u253	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u254	Madam President, it is only to announce that on behalf of the PS bench we will present a vote statement on the vote we have just held and the following two.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Solidarity with Tekbar Haddi, mother of young Saharani Mohamed Lamine Haidala ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Deputies Carlos Enes, Isabel Alves Moreira, Manuel Mota and Pedro Delgado Alves and the PS abstention.]] It was as follows: Tekbar Haddi made a hunger strike in front of the Consulate of the Kingdom of Morocco in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, where he resided, in protest for the murder of one of his children, Mohamed Lamine Haidala, 21 years old, in the occupied territories of the Western Sahara. Mohamed Lamine Haidala was the victim of an assault by a group of Moroccan settlers in El Aaiún. After the assault, he was taken to prison, where he had no medical care. Mohamed Lamine Haidala would die a few days later, on February 8, 2015. Tekbar Haddi moved to El Aaiún to see his son's body, ask for an autopsy, investigate the circumstances of the murder and perform the funeral of his son, which was denied him. This situation represents a serious violation of human rights and the denial of this mother's right to perform a funeral worthy of her child. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary on 3 July shall: 1 — Demonstrate your solidarity with Tekbar Haddi who has the right to give his son, Mohamed Lamine Haidala, a worthy funeral; 2 — Invoking the circumstances of the murder of Mohamed Lamine Haidala and the punishment of its perpetrators. We turn to the vote on vote No 304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Solidarity with Tekbar Haddi, mother of young Saharani Mohamed Lamine Haidala ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Deputies Carlos Enes, Isabel Alves Moreira, Manuel Mota and Pedro Delgado Alves and the PS abstention.]] It was as follows: Tekbar Haddi, a Saharan mother, started a hunger strike last May 15th for an indefinite time, in front of the Moroccan consulate in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, where he resides due to the murder of one of his children, Mohamed Lamine Haidala, 21 years old, presumably by Moroccan settlers. Mohamed Lamine Haidala died on 8 February in El Aaiún, in the occupied territories of Western Sahara, after being attacked by a group of settlers and tortured by Moroccan police. The young Saharan was assaulted and tortured, suffered a stroke of scissors on the neck, injured that was not properly treated. He was later taken to prison without access to medical care until he returned to the hospital, where he was to die. Tekbar Haddi moved to El Aaiún to ask for an investigation and to see the body, but both situations were denied to him. In response, he obtained police persecution and invasion of his family's home, torture of his family members and property destruction, for he did not give in to pressure and did not accept the bribe proposed to him to do his son's funeral without knowing about his whereabouts and without requiring an autopsy to prove what really happened. This situation represents a serious violation of human rights and the deprivation of this mother's right to perform a proper funeral for her child who was tortured and murdered. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its solidarity with Tekbar Haddi, who has the right to give his child a dignified funeral, and fights for the fulfilment of human rights and resolutions adopted by the United Nations. We continue to vote on vote No 292 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Sentencing for repression in Angola ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against BE and PS Pedro Delgado Alves and the abstention of The Greens.]] It was as follows: on June 20, the Angolan regime held 13 young civic activists during a meeting where they discussed forms of peaceful disobedience to the dictatorship of José Eduardo dos Santos. on the following days, two other young people were also arrested for belonging to this same group, which is regularly to discuss politics and civic intervention. After being arrested, the police checked their homes without submitting any search warrants. He essentially took books and manuscripts as evidence that young people would be involved in « preparatory acts for the committing of a rebellion». Many of these young people have organized peaceful demonstrations since 2011 where they demand the resignation of the Angolan President, demanding democracy and freedom for the land where they live. Since 2011 many of them have been regularly arrested and beaten by the regime's repressive forces for challenging the dictatorship and using freedom of expression. The Attorney-General of the Republic of Angola has decreed the preventive arrest of these young people, accusing them of preparing an attack, even in the absence of material supporting this charge. These activists have been denied all their rights. The regime ignored the presumption of innocence and kept them uncommunicated for several days. the lawyers hindered access to information and contact with detainees. Osvaldo Caholo, Afonso Matias, Albano Bingobingo, Nelson Dibango, Sedrick de Carvalho, Domingos da Cruz, Inocêncio António de Brito, Arante Kivuvu, José Gomes Hata, Luaty Beerão, Manuel Baptista Chivonde Nito Alves, Fernando Tomás, Nuno Álvaro Dala, Benedict Jeremiah and Chiconda 'Samusuku' are the names of the young people detained for attending a meeting and for having in their possession books and manuscripts. This week, Nito Alves, one of the activists arrested, started a hunger strike for fear of feeding food provided by prison services, fearing for his life. Portugal is well aware of the intense struggle for freedom and democracy and has in its past the example of a regime whose force resided in repression. We know well the righteousness of those who are willing to fight to overthrow the dictatorships that appear in their lives. We are well aware of the tactics of regimes that oppress and suppress and, therefore, we cannot compact or ignore. We must take a firm stand, condemning the arrest of civic and peaceful activists and repudiating the destruction of their rights. It is in this sense that the Left Block presents this vote, which is also a vote for the liberation of young people who have been abused in Angola and is also a vote in the fight for freedom and democracy in that country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u256	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u257	Please, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u258	Madam President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u259	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 294 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Condemning and weighing the victims of the attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] It is as follows: last week, the world saw another brutal investment of terrorism on three different fronts in France, Tunisia and Kuwait, calling into question peace, security and regional and local stability. Once again, jihadist terrorism was the face of these barbaric and criminal actions, which led to the death of 64 people, including a Portuguese citizen. In two of the three attacks, in the city of Kuwait and in Sousse, the self-proclaimed ISIS claimed its authorship. jihadist extremism and radicalism continue to constitute a present and effective threat to the elementary civilizational values. As such, they demand firm and concerted responses from the international community, as they deserve their most vehement rejection and condemnation. The effective fight against terrorism is a challenge that calls upon all countries that respect human beings and their rights, enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and which underpin all democratic states. Only a strong, credible and continuous defense of these values and principles will be able to defeat the terrorist threat. Putting into practice the measures already taken at international, European and national level and optimising the use of existing cooperation instruments appears imperative to ensure the protection and guarantee of fundamental rights and the realization of security. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic vehemently expresses its condemnation of recent terrorist attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait, expresses its regret over the loss of human lives by extremist movements of an Islamic nature, in particular the Portuguese citizen Maria da Glória Moreira, and calls for international organizations, states and all citizens to oppose all actions that take illegal, illegal and inhuman contours perpetrated by groups aimed at attacking international peace and order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u260	We continue to vote on vote No 303 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Condemnation of attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] It is as follows: The Assembly of the Republic vehemently condemns the terrorist attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait, which have victimized several people, including a Portuguese citizen. The disseminated images are well revealing of extreme violence and barbarity used and which is worthy of the most unequivocal rejection and condemnation. These attacks, perpetrated by terrorist groups linked to Al-Qaeda or the so-called Islamic State, call our attention to the responsibilities of the major Western powers in financing, arming and training these groups in the light of the strategy of militarization, subversion, aggression and interference aimed at destabilizing several countries in the Middle East and North Africa region. The firm fight against terrorism, including State terrorism, which is imposed, requires a profound change in policies and cannot legitimize the violation of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens that have been defended by the Portuguese Government and the European Union. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 3 July 2015 : 1 — Condemns terrorist attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait that have victimized hundreds of people; 2 — Send condolences to the bereaved families, in particular to the family of the Portuguese citizen victim of the attack in Tunisia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u261	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u262	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u263	Madam President, it is to inform us that we will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u264	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are voting now on vote No 296 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In solidarity with the Greek people ( CFP ). Mrs. Members, the PS has asked for the separation of the vote from points 1 and 2 of this vote, so if everyone agrees, we begin by voting from point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and The Greens and abstentions by PS Deputies Carlos Enes, Elza Pais and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We are now voting together on points 3 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote was as follows: Five years of intervention by the European Union and the IMF in Greece, with the so-called « memorandums », led this country to the economic and social disaster. Brutal fall in gross domestic product; unceasing increase in public debt; significant fall in consumption; large increase in unemployment; gross cuts in wages, reforms and pensions; impoverishment and non-access to medicines and medical care by large segments of the population; forced emigration — this is the dramatic economic and social situation after the implementation of the so-called EU and IMF « memorandums ». however, through the intensification of exploitation and manipulation of public debt, billions were being handed over to large economic and financial groups. in the elections held on 25 January the Greek people affirmed the will of a change of policy — an aspiration that was soon faced by the European Union and the IMF. Since January 25, we have seen an intensification of the unacceptable process of interference and blackmail by the European Union and the IMF against the Greek people and their sovereign options. in this process they seek to impose the continuation of the policy of exploitation, impoverishment and dependence, at the service of the large economic and financial groups and of the great powers of the EU. This process shows that the European Union and the IMF have never been interested in solving the serious problems of Greece but, rather, in determining greater and more brutal exploitation of workers and the Greek people and in further extortion of their taxes by the European Union and by the Economic and Monetary Union, which constitute unacceptable constraints to the development of policies in favour of the legitimate interests and aspirations of the peoples, respecting their will and sovereignty. A process which, by demonstrating the nature and objectives of the European Union’s policy — intensification of the exploitation and reduction of labour and social rights — demonstrates that it is not possible to implement a policy that effectively corresponds to the interests and aspirations of a people without facing these same objectives and affirm their right to development and national sovereignty and independence. The Portuguese Government has assumed in this process an unacceptable stance of alignment with the positions taken by the EU and the IMF, affirming itself as one of the most devoted protagonists in imposing on the Greek people the continuation of policies of social backwardness and impoverishment. An unacceptable position which, by seeking to safeguard the continuation of right-wing policy and justify and bleach the gross economic and social consequences of the attack pact — signed by the PS, PSD and CDS with the European Union and the IMF — against the people and the country, is all the more reprehensible as it is against the national interest. The situation in Greece shows that it is the way of resistance, not the way of submission and subordination, which defends the interests of the people and the country. in this regard, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 3 July, shall: 1 — Expressing its solidarity with the Greek people and affirming their right to opt sovereignly for the path that defends their interests and fulfils their legitimate aspirations for a better life, for their dignity and sovereignty, deciding, without any interference, their present and future; 2 — Condemning the process of interference and blackmail of the European Union and the IMF against the Greek people; 3 — Condemning the position of the Portuguese Government in line with this process which it considers to be contrary to the interests of the Portuguese people and the country; 4 — To demand from the Government a position on the principles and values of the Constitution of the Republic, respecting national independence, equality between States, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States and cooperation with all other peoples for emancipation and progress, recognizing their right to self-determination and independence and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u265	We turn to the vote on vote No 299 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In solidarity with the Greek people ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of the PCP, BE and The Greens and abstentions by PS Deputies Carlos Enes, Elza Pais, Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] It was as follows: The European Union was against all the referendums it could. The reference to the Maastricht Treaty, to the single currency, to the European constitution. This aversion to the will of the peoples has led us to an unprecedented crisis in Europe. In order to resolve this, democracy must be convened. That is what Alexis Tsipras did, Prime Minister of Greece, in a historic decision for Europe. When austerity kills and democracy dies, Greece resists and makes an appeal that is European and global, against the dictatorship of markets and the coup of financial institutions. There is no ever a dose of manipulation and fearlessness of the population, not only in Greece but throughout Europe, against the Greek government. The blackmail of finance is today clearer than ever before. The IMF, a non-democratic and non-European institution, has played an unprecedented role in European negotiations, preventing, with the complicity of the European Commission and the implicit support of the alliance between the European People's Party and the European Socialist Party, an agreement that meets the needs of the Greek population. The ECB has scaled the blackmail against the Greek people, stating that liquidity to the bank could be cut at any time and thus obliging the National Bank of Greece to recommend the closure of the banks. In the face of blackmail, the Greek Government maintained the democratic decision of the referendum. for the first time, a European government places democracy at the heart of the decision and rejects the endless impoverishment of its people. The path may have difficult appearances, certainly. But these are the first pains of the birth of a new Europe, from the arc of solidarity among the peoples. Only solidarity and democracy can respond to the crisis, rescue Europe from the financial dictatorship and affirm the dignity of the peoples. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its solidarity with the Greek people and expresses its repudiation to the undue pressures which attempt to condition the free and democratic choice of the people. at this time, BE Members have displayed posters where « Solidarity with Greece » is read.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u266	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to pick up the posters. We proceed with the vote on vote No 301 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By a negotiated solution that strengthens the European project, strengthens the euro and recognizes the fundamental aspirations of the Greek people ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] It is as follows: The fact that an agreement has not been reached between the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund and the Greek Government and the negotiations have been suspended is a cause for apprehension. This affects the European project and the interests of Europeans, including Portuguese. The mission of the European institutions, in which everyone, in a position of responsibility, should commit themselves to strengthening the euro area and confidence in the single currency and thereby the contribution to economic stability that will enable us to face the fundamental problems of Europe, including unemployment and insufficient growth. It is urgent to replace the confrontation between radical positions by constructive negotiation. The restlessness we are experiencing demonstrates the recklessness of those who have not engaged sufficiently in an agreement and the strategic error of those who think that it is possible to turn the page of austerity into a unilateral confrontational position. in this context, Portugal cannot fail to assume an active and driving role of understanding that curates the vital interests of Europe and its Member States, including Greece. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: 1 — Recognizes the legitimacy of the Greek people to act freely and democraticly, respecting their constitutional framework, on their future and on matters relating to their participation in the European Union. 2 — Expresses its hope that whatever the outcome of the Greek people's pronouncement, the parties will return to the negotiating table with a view to achieving a rapid solution that strengthens the European project, strengthens the euro and recognises the fundamental aspirations of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u267	Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on vote No 302 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — From solidarity to the Greek people ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] It is as follows: Greece is currently experiencing times of uncertainty that have important consequences at European level, not only on an economic and financial level but also on a political level. As Portuguese, Europeans and Democrats, we are concerned about the difficult situation experienced by the Greek people, born of an acute financial crisis in the country and Europe. It is also with concern that we are witnessing the negotiating deadlocks between the political leaders of Greece and the international institutions, which have recently led to aggravation of the difficulties experienced by the Greek citizens, the closure of the banks and limited access to multibanks. This is a situation that particularly affects pensioners, who face the anxiety of uncertainty about the future of life savings. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its desire for a rapid resolution of this situation, in accordance with the free and democratic will of the Greek people, without any interference with their decisions, and decides: 1 — Call on the parties involved in this process to maintain an open negotiating route to find a solution for Greece's economic and financial recovery and to take into account the difficult situation that the Greek population is currently facing; 2 — To reaffirm the importance of respect for the principles of solidarity, democracy and responsibility, wishing that being the will of the Greek people, Greece remains a full member of the European Union and the euro area. [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting and we are in an institution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u269	The "book" was for you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u270	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that my statement is valid for all noises. [[Laughing.]] Let us now vote for vote No 300 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — From greeting to the mission of Portugal at the I European Games 2015 ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It is as follows: The mission of Portugal reached a high point in the history of sport in Portugal, by winning 10 medals, in eight modalities, at the I European Games 2015, which took place in Bacu, Azerbaijan. in this magnificent performance of Portugal, they won gold medals the athletes Telma Monteiro, in judo, Rui Bragança, in taekwondo, and Marcos Freitas, Tiago Apolónia and João Geraldo in table tennis by teams. The silver medals were reached by João Silva in the triathlo, João Costa in the shooting and Fernando Pimenta won two in the canoeing. The selection of beach football, Júlio Ferreira in taekwondo, and the double composed by Beatriz Martins and Ana Rente in the synchronized trampolines conquered bronze medals. This prestigious result achieved by the mission of Portugal to the I European Games, a witness of effort, dedication, ambition and conquest, is a stimulus for athletes towards Rio2016 as well as a reason for pride for all Portuguese. The Assembly of the Republic is associated with the feeling of national recognition for this result, welcoming the athletes for the excellent demonstration of their sporting value, as well as the entire Portuguese delegation to the European Games of Bacu, trainers, technical teams, the Olympic Committee of Portugal, sports federations of the modalities represented and responsible for the Mission, as they have dignified Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u271	Mrs. Members, the general vote on the proposal for a law No 332 / XII ( 4 ) is now followed. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2006 of 29 August adopting the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 345 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the information system scheme of the Portuguese Republic. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the PCP, BE and The Greens and abstentions by PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we are now voting in general on draft law No 935 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No. 30 / 84 of 5 September, as amended by Laws Nos 4 / 95 of 21 February, 15 / 96 of 30 April, and 75 -A / 97 of 22 July, and by Organic Laws No. 4 / 2004 of 6 November, and 4 / 2014 of 13 August, with the Declaration of Corrigendum No. 44 -A / 2014 of 10 October ( Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic - SIRP ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the BE and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we are generally voting on draft law No 997 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the regime of supervision of the Assembly of the Republic on the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and sets the limits of the operation of the Services which integrate it ( Sixth amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u272	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u273	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u274	Madam President, if I may, because I believe that I am still speaking in good time, I would like to correct the general sense of vote on Bill No 935 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) where our bench incorrectly voted against. As we are still in good time, I would ask that our vote be corrected in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u275	And it is appropriate to do so here, Mr President. Thus, the result of the Left Block vote is corrected in relation to Bill No. 935 / XII ( 4. ( a ) submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP to the effect that the Left Block voted in favour of this diploma. Thus, the Bureau rectifies the outcome of the general vote of Bill No 935 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), as follows, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes, and the PS's abstention. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 998 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, which adequately regulates the organisation of the register of interests of its stakeholders ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u276	Madam President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u277	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u278	Madam President, I am sorry, I will have listened to Mrs President's statement or identified this bill with paragraph 998 / XII ( 4 ). ( a)? It is I believe that it will be dealt with, before, draft law No 999 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) as shown in the vote script. Thank you for your indication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u279	Mr President, I cannot now specify how I indicated the number of the diploma. I'm sorry, sir. Tiredness also makes us fail, often. Mrs. Members, let us then vote, in general, on Bill No 999 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, which adequately regulates the organisation of the register of interests of its stakeholders ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 1006 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — First amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2014 of 6 August establishing the State Secret Supervisory Entity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1553 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2014 ( Committee on European Affairs ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We will continue with the general vote on Bill No 1023 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls in the ex-SCUT(BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of the PCP, BE and The Greens and abstentions of PS Deputies Augustinho Santa, Elza Pais, Fernando Serrasqueiro, Hortense Martins, Idália Salvador Serra, Ivo Oliveira, Miguel Freitas, Nuno André Figueiredo, Paulo Campos and Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u280	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u281	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u282	Madam President, I would like to announce that myself and other Members. Members of the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u283	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we are now voting on draft resolution No 1567 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by not introducing tolls on the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u284	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u285	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u286	Madam President, I would like to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u287	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of the Cantanhede hospital under the SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( PCP ). The PS requested the vote on points (a) and (b) and then on points (c) and (d). If there is no opposition, then we shall vote on points (a) and (b). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We are now voting on points (c) and (d) of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We continue to vote on draft resolution No 1560/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1566 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( The Greens). The PS calls for the vote on points 1, 2 and 5 together and then on points 3 and 4. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on points 1, 2 and 5 of this motion for a resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We then voted points 3 and 4. [[Subject to vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall now vote in general on Bill No. 998 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Shorten legal deadlines for elections to the Assembly of the Republic and eliminate unjustified ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 1022/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic, fifth amendment to the Electoral Recensation Act and second amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We continue with the general vote on Bill No. 545 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Improving the allocation rules and amending the duration and amounts of unemployment and social unemployment allowance ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The general vote on Bill No 546 / XII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Creates the social allowance for extraordinary unemployment ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 1018 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Protects long-term unemployed persons, facilitates access to unemployment benefit ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1456/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures for inclusive education ( BE ). The PS calls for a separate vote on point 1, following the vote on points 2 and 3. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We now vote points 2 and 3. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u288	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u289	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u290	Madam President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the draft resolution we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u291	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 1017 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Special Education Legal System ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, we then generally vote on Bill No 1024 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish the framework for penalties for crimes against pets ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the Greens and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the BE.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1015 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, by maintaining the Port Military Museum, identify the routes and rooms used by the PIDE and promote the fair homage to whom it has gone through the « Herodism building » and there has resisted fascism ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1561/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the memory of political persecution in the Port Military Museum ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u292	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u293	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u294	Mr President, it is to announce that, in relation to the last two votes, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u295	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We then followed for the vote on draft resolution No 1554 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate an investigation to clarify the disappearance of the EMGFA, MDN and MNE archives of the official correspondence between these bodies with regard to the export of war material to Iran ( PSD, PS, and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1555 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the documentary collection of the Ultramar Military Defence Fund and the creation of the Camarate file, digitized and made available online on the Parliament's website ( PSD, PS, and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 333 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January approving the status of staff in charge of the services and bodies of the central, regional and local administration of the State, and the second amendment to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December amending the procedures for recruitment, selection and provision in the senior management positions of the Public Administration. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We are voting now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in general, Bill No 342 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, as approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and makes the first amendment to the Framework Law of the Foundations, as approved by Law No 24 / 2012 of 9 July. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No. 341 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 35 / 2012 of 23 August 2012 establishing the compensation fund for the universal electronic communications service provided for in the Electronic Communications Act for the financing of the net costs arising from the provision of the universal service. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 167 / XII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum wage ( ALRAA ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we now vote on a request submitted by the PSD in the sense of the projects of lein.o 790 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Law on maternity and paternity support for the right to be born ( Citizens' Legislative Initiative) and 1021 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November is made by the application of the payment of moderate rates at the termination of pregnancy when performed by the woman's option during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy ( CDS-PP and PSD ) to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote for 20 days. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] As a result, these two initiatives go down to the Commission as required for 20 days and therefore we do not vote on the two projects that follow in the vote script. In a general vote, we shall vote on motion for a resolution No 117 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the University of the United Nations on Operational Unit of Oriented Electronic Governance for Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] In the overall vote, the vote on motion for a resolution No 118 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Creation, Operation and Location of the Operational Unit of Electronic Governance Oriented to Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon, on 23 May 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1543 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by rejecting the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement ( TTIP ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1534 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America ( TTIP ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1183 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1535 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate and revise the Natural Park Management Plan ( POPNA ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u296	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u297	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u298	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u299	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1537 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In defense of the sustainability of the Tejo River ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1306 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Social Emergency Plan for the Aveiro District ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u300	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u301	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u302	Madam President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Teresa Anjinho, we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u304	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u305	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u306	Madam President, it is to announce that I and the PSD members elected by the Aveiro electoral circle will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u307	Mr. Deputies, it is also registered. Does Mrs Inês de Medeiros ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u308	Yes, Madam President. It is to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u309	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 896 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adequacy of the consular network and the improvement of its intervention capacity in order to meet the needs of growing emigration ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1499 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen cooperation with the Government, the Legislative Assembly and the municipalities of the State of Goa, in the Indiana Union ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue to vote, in general, on Bill No 94 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the right of association in the Republican National Guard ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 369 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of Non-Governmental Organisations for Gender Equality ( NGOIG ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote on Bill No 371 / XII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Strengthens the autonomy and representativeness of non-governmental organisations for women ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text, tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the proposal for a law No 304 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 86 / 95 of 1 September adopting the basic law on agrarian development. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] In the overall final vote, we voted on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 306 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the process of recognising the situation of the rustic and mixed building without known owner that it is not being used for agricultural, forestry or silvopastoric purposes and the registration of the building which is recognised as such in accordance with Article 9 ( 2 ). the Law No 62 / 2012, of 10 December. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] In the overall final vote, we shall also vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft law No 157 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for land structure ( PS ) and the proposal for law No 307 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the land structure. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u310	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u311	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u312	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u313	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft law No 857 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — It stipulates that no child is deprived of a family doctor ( The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, if all of you are. Members agree, I would suggest a joint vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, of the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 899 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the citizenship card and governing its issue and use ( PCP ). If there is no objection to this joint vote, we shall vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting in a global final vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 259 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime and professional status of nightguard activity ( CFP ) and 775 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We now have to vote on a request by the PSD and the CDS-PP for a full vote on Article 16. ( Access to information by third parties) of the Annex established by Article 4. o ( Registration system for the criminal identification of convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and sexual freedom of minors) of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the bill No. 305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The thirty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September implementing Directive 2011 / 93 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and establishing the criminal identification system of convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and child sexual freedom, and to the projects of lein. 772 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by complying with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention) ( PS ) and 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will open a time for debate, in the specialty, if the parties understand it; otherwise we can continue with the votes. Mrs. Isabel Oneto asks for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u314	Madam President, I have just one doubt for now. My question is whether the authors of the proposal will present it or not, since it is a proposal to replace the text we have voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u315	Madam Member, silence is worth a statement, it seems to me, and there was no attempt here to present, nor is there any obligation. Mr. Jorge Lacão asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u316	Madam President, we have just voted on an appeal on one subject and certainly if it is not presented, most of the Members do not know what it is about to make the vote conscious. So we schedule a matter for the plenary and nobody introduces it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u317	Mr President, as no one has submitted the request, I have put it to the vote and it has been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u318	Mr President, it is not the request, it is the material proposal itself that is interested in being known.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u319	You don't want me to keep the record!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u320	Mr President, there is now a debate. We are now debating the content of the proposal. [[Pause.]] The PS calls for intervention. Please, Mr. Pita Amisema.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u321	Madam President, we would like to send Mrs Isabel Oneto to speak on this subject, but we have urged the presenters of the proposal to be able to base it before, which would be logical. [[PSD protests.]] In any case, if they do not do so, this will also have a political reading, certainly, and in this case we register Mrs Isabel Oneto to intervene on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u322	There's no reading! It's regiment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u323	I then give the floor to Mrs Isabel Oneto, who has signed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since there is no submission of this proposal, I will say here what the majority wants to do. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u325	in Article 16. the, where read « can access the information of the criminal identification register of convicted persons for crimes against sexual self-determination and sexual freedom of minors », remove the expression « who exercises parental responsibilities over children under 16 years of age ». The Socialist Party, by withdrawing this proposal, accompanies the majority. The proposal for a replacement is that it is another disgrace in itself. But on this point, I have to say to the majority: in this House of the Republic, we have already seen the Minister be denied by the statistics she brought here, and we have already seen the Minister be denied by the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Union as to the statements made before this Assembly of the Republic, but we did not expect that it would be the majority to « take the carpet» to the Minister in relation to the debate she had here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u326	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares signed up to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, it is to be part of the debate, because it did not expect the Socialist Party to have the same idea as itself, that is, when it was government, the Socialist Party was not allowed to make legislative changes in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PS protests.]] When we think that the proposals coming from the Government can be improved, we do not exempt ourselves from improving here, in the House of the Republic, because this, Madam President, is an obligation, if not a duty, of each of us who exercises a mandate. in addition, we realized perfectly that, after all, the Socialist Party knew the proposal well and, more importantly, even agreed with it. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u328	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I just wanted to say that we understand why the majority does not want to present the proposal here. It is that an initial proposal, which was bad, and a replacement text, which was also bad, comes up with a proposal which is not even the courage of the majority to present, because it is a proposal that has only one consequence, which is to create the social alarm in relation to what is contained in the register of criminal identification of citizens. And we leave this warning alone: what the majority prepares to approve, and that with some sense of responsibility would still withdraw, until the vote, a legal mechanism that in a particular council, for example, Sintra, Amateur, Matosinhos, or any council where hundreds of thousands of people in this country live and where, certainly, there will be someone with a conviction for one of the crimes in question, will create the social alarm because someone will be given the information that in this council, among hundreds of thousands of people, there may be a person condemned for this crime and who is not known. Then, the climate of suspicion and social alarm will inevitably be installed, with all that that may mean, persecution of people unfairly and possibly, with the creation of a climate of fear. With some sense of responsibility, we call on the majority to withdraw this proposal from the vote, so that, in the name of some sense of responsibility, the replacement text, which is already bad, will not be even worse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u330	Mr Luís Fazenda was appointed to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u331	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for an amendment which brings us the PSD and the CDS, in fact, leaves parents'access to the list of convicted people in the area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u332	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u333	But what they don't take through the front door ends up happening, headlong, in the back. A person with parental responsibilities may travel to the security forces to find out facts, to find out about situations, areas where they occur, but cannot know the identity of anyone. But does anyone believe this? Oh, my God! Someone believes that knowing what, how, why, when, you won't know who? Well, this is surreal, this doesn't exist! Moreover, it is a poisoned gift for the security forces, because who dares to describe a whole set of facts that can be dangerous for children and young people, reporting a whole set of situations, but not identifying the person? This is not a mere access to the criminal record, it is a matter of saying, in the police, "well, it happened here. "In addition, it is used to be in that area, with some people from there." Find out facts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u334	Don't! Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u335	It appears in the discretion of this, in the subjectivity of this, in the inappropriate, unequal and disproportionate form as such will be applied in each of the police station. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u336	For the PS, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u337	Mr President, it is only to clarify that the PS agrees with the withdrawal of the initial proposal but considers that the proposed replacement is as bad as the first one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u338	Mr Telmo Correia is also a member. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal and this regime have a normal, logical and very simple assumption that the existence of a national register of pedophiles can serve as a way to guarantee what, for us, is the essential and fundamental value, which is to protect our children from such threats. This is the idea and this is the intention, from the beginning, as it is very obvious. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u340	Mr Luís Fazenda asks in his last speech: but does anyone think this is going to happen like this? Mr President, there are those who believe, I believe that the law is complied with and I believe that, when this Parliament makes a law, it is for it to be respected and complied with. That is why you are in the law, Mr. How do we get to this proposal? It's so simple. Moreover, Mr Luís Fazenda explained well, other Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not understood. We created the register; then a number of criticisms were made, notably by evoking the constitutional principle, that the provision of the identity of the paedophile concerned to the parents, when asked for it, could raise constitutional problems. What we have tried to do in a first replacement proposal, which is widely discussed in 1. the Commission? And I don't know much about what I voted for here today and that came from the Health Committee or the Education Committee, but from 1. the Commission, I know. We tried to maintain the principle that was in this register and try to guarantee constitutionality. That's what's here. In other words, parents, in the face of a situation of doubt or suspicion, can go to the police and the police have the record they can use to do an investigation. That's what's here, in respect of the Constitution. This is very simple. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume the proposal has been distributed. And I must say, Madam President, that I also assume that, in principle, the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we can read. However, after a few speeches I have heard, particularly from the Socialist Party, I must say that I was not very sure of that. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u341	Mrs. Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, according to all that Mr Telmo Correia said, it was very clear here that the opposition parties' claim was not to discuss the substance of this diploma. It is that this amendment we introduced with this appeal is precisely an amendment in the sense that the opposition parties have been defending, or rather, what they criticized in the previous version of the diploma and which we have now changed in the specialty. The rule is very clear. Probably Mr. João Oliveira did not read the standard,... [[Leu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u343	...but it will be in your possession. And you have not read it because you have not verified that it is information related to possible crimes of this nature, but that it circulates in the area of residence or in the area of the educational establishment or in the area where the minor attends para-school activities. That is to say, no individual registered in the municipality is concerned but, strictly speaking, in the area of residence, which means that the scope and geographical extension of the norm we now introduce is quite different from that which was the subject of criticism by Mr. João Oliveira, so you can remove the criticism you have already made, because it does not correspond to the reality of the norm.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u344	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u345	In conclusion, Madam President, what has been our claim—and indeed, in line with what has been defended by the Minister of Justice in this plenary—and what has been unequivocally defended and is recorded is that those who exercise parental responsibilities would not have access to information on the identity of the persons registered in the register. inasmuch as it was considered that the norm was not clear regarding this exclusion of identity information, we clarified it - in the sense that no one with parental responsibilities can have this specific information about the identity of those on the list. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u346	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The final text of the law and this amendment confirm the criticisms made by the CFP. We had disagreed with the bill because, firstly, she only cares about the minors after these were abused,... [[What a fool!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u348	... does not care about the prevention of abuse. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u349	Secondly, because instead of worrying about the resocialization of convicted persons, it opts for a process of stigmatization and persecution of convicted persons. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u350	And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we said here, in the discussion, in general, that this bill not only accentuated the deresponsibility of courts and social reintegration mechanisms but, above all, promoted a spirit of surveillance of one person over another. Now, what the debate here, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I am sorry to inform you, is the focus of these concerns. It is because, when you say that anyone who exercises parental responsibilities over a child under 16 years of age and has given rise to fear that there may have been a situation like this does not have access to the register of criminal identification, it is obvious that he could not — and, moreover, we have already been alerted to that circumstance. But when you come to say that this parenting officer can address a police authority that can say to you, "Yes sir, there is in the area someone who has already been convicted of one of these crimes", so that does not emphasize the climate of people's surveillance over each other?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u351	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u352	Does this not raise the climate of social alarm? Does it not emphasize the climate of persecution of some people over others? Oh, my God! It's obvious he'll accentuate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u353	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u354	I shall conclude, Madam President. And it is good to have the notion that you, who are going to vote in favour of this law today, will be responsible for the consequences resulting there. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u355	Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u356	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, the Socialist Party can read what is written here. I don't know if who wrote it knew what he was doing when he did it. That is the big difference, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What's the area of residence? Is that the strawberry? Is that the neighborhood? Is that the street? Sir, tell us what this is! What is the area of residence? Is that the neighborhood? Is that the council? What's this? It is said that the police, with a well-founded fear, will report that there is a pedophile in the municipality of Lisbon. O honourable Member, this is brilliant! Brilliant!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u357	It's not in the county!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u358	Oh, it's in the area! But in the area, what is it? I don't belong in the neighborhood? On the street? in the parish? Sir, tell me what you're doing here! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u359	It's in the fiscal district! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u360	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP amending Article 16. ( Access to information by third parties) of the Annex established by Article 4. o ( Registration system for criminal identification of convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and sexual freedom of minors), of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the bill No. 305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and projects of lein.o 772 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 886 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[SE is the following: Article 16........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 — (Remove) 5 —...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6 — The provisions of paragraph 3 shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to citizens exercising parental responsibilities over children up to 16 years of age who are temporarily displaced from their area of residence, on vacation or otherwise, and the application shall be submitted to the police authority of the place where they are. 7—................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................10 — Citizens to whom the facts referred to in paragraph 3 are confirmed shall be obliged to keep a secret about them and may not make them public.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u361	Mrs. Members, the vote on Article 16 shall therefore be adversely affected. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u362	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u363	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u364	Madam President, it is to inform you that I and the Members. Members Gabriel Corte-Real Goucha, Guilherme Silva, Hugo Velosa, João Lobo, Mauricio Marques, Nilza de Sena and Pedro Saraiva will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u365	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, with the amendment adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The thirty-sixth amendment of the Criminal Code, adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, transposed Directive 2011 / 93 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and established the criminal identification system for convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and sexual freedom of minors, and to the projects of lein. 772 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The thirty-ninth amendment to the Criminal Code is made in compliance with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention) ( PS ) and 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics and Public Works, on draft law No 419 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for collaborative financing ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 330 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of ourseries and contrasts. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on the proposal for a law No 320 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the availability and use of electronic public procurement platforms provided for in the Public Contracts Code and transposes Article 29. Directive 2014 / 23 / EU, Article 22. the and Annex IV to Directive 2014 / 24 / EU and Article 40. the and Annex V to Directive 2014 / 25 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u366	I'm asking for your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u367	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u368	Madam President, it is only to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u369	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on Bill No 303 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We now vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on the proposal for a law No 296 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour, on the proposal for a law No 291/ XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Turns the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Officials and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 173 / 98 of 26 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We shall now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on Bill No 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the BE has raised a doubt that the Bureau also shares, i.e., for a time, no vote has been taken, so we will do so immediately. We shall then vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on Bill No 294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The final text, submitted by the Social Security and Labour Committee, on the proposal for a law No 302 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mr António Cardoso signalled to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u370	Madam President, it is to announce that I am absent from this vote because I belong to the bodies of the Technical Engineers Association, claiming incompatibility of interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u371	That's how it'll be recorded. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on the proposal for a law No 295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Architects, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary will do well to read three opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u372	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Acão — Attorney General of the Republic, survey 3902 / 13.OJFLSB, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Filipe Lobo D’Ávila ( CDS-PP ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u373	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u374	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Central Court for Criminal Instruction-Single Section, Case 39O2 / 13.OJFLSB, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr Miguel Macedo ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u375	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u376	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Comarca de Coimbra-Instruction Central — Section Criminal Instruction — J1, Case No 680 / 12.TACBR, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Pedro Duarte ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u377	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we can now announce the result of the vote for a judge for the Constitutional Court that took place in Chamber D. Maria. You have the floor Mr. Secretary to make the announcement of his result.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u378	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the election of a judge to the Constitutional Court, the following result was found: 194 Members were voted, and 145 « Yes» votes were recorded, 43 white votes and 6 null votes. Faced with the result, the only candidate proposed to the Constitutional Court is declared elected, Judge Desembargador José António Pires Teles Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-03.u379	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how our work today is completed. The next plenary meeting will take place on the next fourth session, on 8 a.m. at 3 p.m., and will have the debate on the state of the nation on the agenda. At the end of the debate there will be scheduled votes. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]]
