ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, which consists of the debate on the state of the nation, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, motion for a resolution No 119 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, adopted in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003 in Matters of Judicial Cooperation, which falls below 2. the Commission and the following draft laws: No 976 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 September, first amendment to Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April — prohibits indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of erring animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pet animals ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1028 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the allocation of incentives and support for the establishment of physicians in areas lacking in the National Health Service ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1029 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the IMI Code, reducing the tax effort of families ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission; points 1030 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Oriola, in the municipality of Portel, district of Évora ( PCP ) ; No 1031 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Our Lady of Good Faith in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1032 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Bacelo, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) : No 1033 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Madame da Saúde, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I wanted to ask you. Members and the public present in the galleries making silence so that you can hear the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I continue, indicating the bills that have entered the Bureau : No 1034 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Sé and São Pedro, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1035 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of St. Bartolomeu of the hill, in the municipality of Portel, district of Évora ( PCP ) ; No 1036 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of St. Vincent of Pigeiro, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1037 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Malagueira, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1038 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Horta das Figueiras, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1039 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Manços, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1040 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Sebastião da Giesteira, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ; No 1041 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Our Lady of Guadalupe in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ; No. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Our Lady of Tourega, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ) ; No 1043 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Mamede, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ; and No 1044 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo Antão, in the municipality of Évora, Évora district ( PCP ). All these bills are down to 11. the Commission. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 1045 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Eliminates the privatisation process of CP Cargo ( BE ) and 1046 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Announces the privatisation process of EMEF ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Madam President, with your permission, I ask Secretary Maria Rosa Albernaz to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u5	Please, Mrs. Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have also entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1572 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensures a special scheme for access to public cultural activities and equipment ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1573 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by strengthening proximity health care and urgent resolution of constraints in primary health care ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1574 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the establishment of the Setúbal Peninsula Hospital Group ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1575 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct competitions to support literary production and support for the arts and the publication of the results of the last tenders ( CFP ), which fall to 9. the Commission ; 1576 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — support for farmers on the Setúbal peninsula — reintegration of rural and disadvantaged areas in the region at the PDR 2020 ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 1577 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the resolution of the sub-concession of ENVCs to the West Sea Company and the development of a plan for the feasibility of ENVCs from the construction of the NPOs for the Portuguese Navy ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission ; 1578 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Proposes the exit of Portugal from the ratification process of the Unified Patent Court ( CFP ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; 1579 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By a new public health policy ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1580 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In defense of the dignity of Serra cheese and pastoral activity in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 1581 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not establish the Lezíria Hospital Group ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and 1582 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the cancellation of the sub-concession and the hiring of 120 new drivers for the port transport undertaking, STCP ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Finally, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, the draft deliberation No 32 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to deliberations No 9 - PL / 2015 of 12 June ( Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( President of the HR ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft debate which has now been announced after the debate on the state of the nation. Before we enter our agenda, vote No 305 / XII ( 4 ) will be read. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Mary of Jesus Simons Barroso Soares ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE and The Greens ). To read the vote, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « Mary died of Jesus Simons Barroso Soares. At 90 years of age, recently celebrated, the country has said goodbye today to a woman who emerges from her time as one of the most relevant female figures in the contemporary history of Portugal. Born in the Fuseta on May 2, 1925 and died in Lisbon on July 7, Maria Barroso, as was known to all, leaves us the testimony of a lifetime, an example of talent, coherence, integrity and civic courage, dedicated pedagogue and permanent attention and solidarity with the causes of the common good. Maria Barroso, the woman and life partner of Mário Soares, with whom he married in Aljube prison, leaves in his children Isabel and João Soares, our colleague, the legacy of a vast mission of dedication to teaching and valuing the culture and civic elevation of Portuguese society. It was also an example of a courageous mother who was able to overcome all adversity without ever giving up her principles and convictions. Maria Barroso, an actress whose talent was well expressed in the National Theatre and in the cinema, as in « Benilde or the Virgin Mother » of the director Manuel Oliveira, or in the declaration of a vast generation of Portuguese poets, with emphasis on those of the « New Singer», who said as no one, marks the style of a classic modernity, committed to their time and the fights for freedom and democracy in the name of the dignity of all people, without exception of condition or belief. Its determination for the defense of freedom cost him, during the dictatorship, interrogations in the PIDE, career as an actress, the prohibition of teaching functions in the college to which he has always been linked and a life of trouble and political persecution that, however, never made it waste. Maria Barroso was an active voice at the Republican Congress of Aveiro, founder of the Socialist Party, Member after 25 April and, alongside the President of the Mário Soares Republic, performed the functions inherent in the protocol representation with the high finery of his personal, discreet and distinct manner, which so captivated the Portuguese. But, above all, Maria Barroso was the woman always attentive to the needs of others and available to make her word heard in defense of tolerance, the protection of the most needy, especially children, gender equality and human rights. Maria Barroso, in front of an educational institution, has indelibly marked generations of students. in the presidency of the Portuguese Red Cross contributed to the increase of humanitarian values and the improvement of health care in Portugal and to the deepening of the factors of peace and development in several Portuguese-speaking countries. in the presidency of the Pro Dignitate Foundation continued, without giving up, committed to its cause of always against all threats of violence and oppression in society. in a world lacking values and principles, Maria Barroso has witnessed to the end her belief of always in people and her religious faith with simplicity, tenderness and dedication that significantly approached her by Pope Francis and his messages as representations of the world and the need for reconstitution, at all levels, of human dignity. Being utterly impossible to condense into a vow of weighing the wealth of his life, the testimony of his action, the merit of his work, the exemplaryness of his causes, the Assembly of the Republic directs Dr. Mário Soares, his children and grandchildren, his remaining family and many friends to his deepest condolences and expresses to Portuguese society the recognition that his death will not mean a passage to forget because Maria Barroso will remain alive in the memory, heart and admiration of the Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, using the privilege of presiding over this House, to also leave a record of the relationship between Maria Barroso and Parliament itself. If we exercise freedom here today, we must do so too. We owe their ability to risk, to their pain, to their persistence, to their sharing with the daily democracy that we are here to exercise our freedom. I would like to enhance this aspect, because it was this aspect that, fundamentally, gave Maria Barroso's life the meaning, which we can say is worth living. I believe it was Cicero that, one day, said that the activity in which men most approach the gods is that of the foundation of the city or that of participation in it. It is this appreciation of the exercise of politics that today also serves as a pretext for a kind of celebration that it belongs to our community and that it still belongs to our community. I wanted to tell you that I think that Maria Barroso synthesizes what I would call the formula of liberation from the world: the bet on education and training of people, who exercised through the Modern College, and an insistent persistence in the exercise of politics. The world will only have its liberation by the irradiating and creative power that politics has and by the training and education of people, who are its protagonists. No one like Maria Barroso has synthesized or joined the elements of this duality in such a perfect way, with such excellence. If I may, I would also like to leave you a personal reference. The exercise of politics often brings us a state of incredible solidarity. As President of Parliament, during these four years I have lived a few years, and often I have climbed these steps reinforced by his embrace and his words, when we met in my office. Maria Barroso has taught us that the request, that aristotelian virtue that must always be present in politics, is the key to our ability to build. It is this semi-urgic function that she had as an educator and as a political one, no longer having me, due to lack of time and lack of ability to speak, to refer to all. But I wanted to leave this record that as no one like Maria Barroso, I repeat, loaded in his own life the key to the liberation of the world: education and politics. And, in this sense, it is an example for us, and it is this example that, in the way of celebration and not only sadness, we, with the optimism that characterizes us as transformation agents, must bear. We look at it, and in a way that I could say that it must well make our pride dare to be the size of our sadness. I could not fail to mention this aspect here, because what Maria Barroso leaves us is this exemplary impression of a life worth living, a life that, because it is worth, is the only way for us to challenge death. As Iliada has already said, it is a kind of challenge and revenge over death. A life worth living is what Maria Barroso has left us, and an example of request, as a web that suits our political relations. She had it every day and she had it extraordinarily connected to a boundless force. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Prime Minister, I could not fail to make this reference here which, at the same time, has the bold side of the personal dimension, but which is inevitable, as it should always be inevitable at all times in the exercise of politics. Let us now vote on the vote that was read by Mr Jorge Lacão, the vote of regret for the death of Mary of Jesus Simons Barrosos Soares. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mr. João Soares, Mr. Mário Soares, Ms. Dr. Isabel Soares and the family and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are particularly fond of her. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin our debate on the state of the nation. As everyone knows, in this model, Mr. Prime Minister will open the debate, following requests for clarification, the order of which is as follows: PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and The Greens. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, to open the debate, I give the floor to Mr Prime Minister. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u10	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: During these four years, while we have given our hands to the urgent tasks ahead, we have also prepared the country to resist the contingencies that the future could bring. With all that has happened in the meantime, we know that the strategy we follow, of rigour, of growth and of credibility, was the right one. It was the right one, not according to party policy criteria, not according to ideological charts that ignore people's reality and specific problems. Yes, it was the most successful strategy to protect Portuguese in their daily lives. Yes, it was a successful strategy to return to the Portuguese a horizon of more prosperity, more fairness and more justice. This horizon, which some may discuss if it is more optimistic or less optimistic, has again become the reference point of our national life. And that makes all the difference. The discussion in Portugal is no longer the growth of unemployment, the financial turmoil, the insecurity of savings, the disappearance of businesses and sectors of activity. The debate, quite different now, is: how much the economy is going to grow, how much the rate of unemployment decline, what acceleration will have the innovation in our economy, how fast will be removed all the measures that have been forced upon us by the violence of the national emergency that we have gone through. This is an unforgettable fact of Portuguese reality. And I am glad that this is the case, because governments exist to serve people, all people, in their life aspirations, in solving their problems. They exist to serve the community as a whole, to ensure their future in security and justice, to affirm their autonomous will, which is incompatible with the succession of crises and financial emergencies. That is the real translation of the respect that we, as a political community, have for ourselves. That is basically the design of our democratic project. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is true that we do not solve all the problems. No one wants, or has ever been intended, that we could achieve such definitive results. But when we measure the scale of the crisis that hit us in 2011, when we revisit the amount of dangers that we managed to avoid, when we add the number of answers that we gave to the problems, which were waged in the social state, in budgetary imbalances, in external debt, in the competitiveness of companies, in the functioning of institutions, in the spread of social injustices, when we consider all this the neutral and impartial viewer will be able to positively assess what the country as a whole has achieved. And here I stress that it was really the country, as a whole, that was able to overcome: it was the workers and the entrepreneurs; it was the public officials; it was the most subscribers and less subscribers, from the North and South and the Autonomous Regions; it was the families in their support; it was the tireless social sector; it was the teachers and health professionals, who did more and better with less; it was the security agents, who ensured that we continued to be one of the safest countries in the world; it was the young people, who are bringing a new energy to our society and who will quickly transform it; it was all Portuguese, who, regardless of their political convictions, never gave up. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The determination of the Portuguese people to return to the difficulties was unfortunately not accompanied by oppositions. We could not count on the oppositions to achieve these results and, perhaps, the oppositions felt about them. Perhaps they would prefer to discuss the assistance programme and the second rescues or even the precautionary programmes today. It was more than a year ago that we completed the assistance programme, without resorting to new loans or precautionary programmes, and the greatest proof that this transition to walk our own feet has been successful is that everything seems to have taken place for a long time. Our footing has become another one, including early repayment of the debt to the International Monetary Fund to save money from Portuguese taxpayers in interest, to save about EUR 1350 million in interest by 2019 and we will quickly close this page of our history. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The economic growth that we have had over the past two years and the employment that has been created is ultimately based on a sustainable basis. And I say 'finally' because we cannot return to the cycles of irresponsibility and bankruptcy of the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u11	Today we have an economy that has gone from huge and chronic external deficits to surpluses with foreigners. An economy that grows not at the expense of irrational and unproductive public investment or consumer-related shocks, but at the same time as fiscal consolidation and productivity gains, which means that our growth, unlike what happened in the past, is strengthening itself even and step by step with the reduction of indebtedness. This results in a growing orientation for exports and less and less for protected sectors. It results in a diversification of Portuguese productive tissue and the remarkable reinvention of our traditional sectors. It also results from the largest programme of structural reforms in our democratic history and will be the force of our recovery for many years in the future. Just as today is an engine of the growth of our economy and our democracy, we have made the state in what it must be: an instance of impartiality and not an instrument to favour this or that business, these or those people, to the detriment of all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Four years ago, unemployment went off and job destruction was a fact every day. Now the unemployment rate is very close to July 2011 levels. It was with the creation of tens of thousands of jobs that we started to fight the biggest fracture of Portuguese society. And so we will continue until we reach the levels of unemployment that can be allowed in a social market economy and in a developed European democracy. We need to create even more jobs to give opportunities to all Portuguese, including those who, having left the country, not only in the last four years, but in the last ten, now want to return. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u12	Moreover, it is of the most fundamental justice to stress the role that Portuguese communities abroad have played, and will continue to play, in our recovery, with their experience, with their work and with their investment. Portugal must be able to welcome all this human and material wealth. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Current recovery has been beneficial in job creation, but we know that every year, from now on, we will have to create many more. More work with qualifications and better paid. And sustainable employment, in a functional and dynamic labour market, with an educational system aligned with the needs of the economy and with the aspirations of our young people for the future. That is our challenge and that is our ambition. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it is shown today, budgetary consolidation and economic recovery in a country that faced the specific imbalances that we suffered in 2011 were never in contradiction. And contrary to what the oppositions so often said, they were always the condition of one another. It was precisely this combination that allowed us to start, from now on, undoing all the emergency measures that have affected civil servants and pensioners and that will gradually allow us to undo them completely in the coming years, including greater fiscal moderation. It is good not to forget that it was this combination of discipline in accounts and economic growth that now allows, on the side of elections, some of them promise to carry out these repos at a slightly faster pace than the stability programme presented by the Government in April 2015 to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But this is not the time for complacency. We know well, all Portuguese are well aware of the consequences of irresponsibility, political lightness and ideological distraction in the face of the very concrete problems we still face. Strategic stability continues to be — and will continue to be for a long time — a political good of the first order. That is what led us in these difficult years and made us move from the very real possibility of a social disaster to the years of recovery and security that we are beginning to live. On the other hand, the zighuzag, political disorientation in the purposes and the means, remains a collective threat to us. in Europe and in the world we face countless unknowns and uncertainties. We know it is. The worst thing we can do in these circumstances is add our own uncertainty and disorientation to them. on the contrary, we need to focus on the essential and what really counts, with our well-defined objectives and a realistic, prudent and intelligent approach to achieve them. For that, we need, not to ignore, but to see beyond the stream of news and events that are happening. We need to continue to guide our political conduct by the fundamental values of our democracy. But whoever pursues, indeed, these values know that they are assured, not with empty proclamations, but only with the right means, with realism and with the eyes set in the future. The achievement of stability and the path to sustainable growth is synonymous with more justice and more freedom for the country and for the Portuguese. It means removing the fear and anguish that has so often afflicted us in the past. That's fundamental. It is now clear that it is better than to contain public expenditure in a pre-failence State is not a strictly financial matter, it is to safeguard the values of justice and freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is better known than making structural reforms in a stagnant economy is not a topic of technocracy, it is to safeguard these same values, it is to have the Portuguese in principle and at the end of government action.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u14	on our part, we will never make the Portuguese guinea pigs of political experiences or instruments to get this or that scroll.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u16	Upon arrival in the fourth year of the legislature, it is natural and necessary to make a balance sheet of what has happened. But time does not wait for anyone and balance sheets only make sense if they are used to prepare for the future. It is for this future that we have looked at, with a confidence that the country has not been in the long run.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u17	And white scarf in your hand!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u18	This trust comes first of all from what we can do in our home. We have affirmed the principle of national responsibility, without which there is no union in Europe or solving our internal problems. We didn't want to be toys of what was decided outside our borders. If we had not embraced the principle of national responsibility, as so many times here in Parliament, the main opposition party rejected, we would now be facing very serious deficiencies, very serious imbalances and, of course, we would still be trying to carry out successive external assistance programmes. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u19	It even seems like everything goes from wind to stern!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u20	But at the same time we have renewed confidence, because Europe is gradually moving towards rules and institutions based on the principle of common responsibility. These two principles are faces of the same coin. It is an illusion that at the present stage of European integration we can have one without the other. The common responsibility now needs to be realized at a deeper and more lasting level. The reforms we advocate for monetary union correspond to this deepening and institutionalization. They aim to meet the challenges that are effectively common, without leaps in the dark and with realism. The European Monetary Fund which I have proposed to the European institutions and our partners, with the functions of financial stabilization and depreciation of economic crises, is a central pillar of a euro which is an area of convergence, freedom and economic possibilities in the various countries. It is the interlocutor in defining policies in the euro area that the European Central Bank needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u21	He's in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u22	We walk to such a solution, I'm convinced of it. It's a matter of time. A time that we must accelerate until the moment we live. Not only because of the serious situation in Greece, but also because the euro area as a whole lives today an economic recovery that it had not known for long. And it is in these recovery times that we must repair the institutional gaps that still remain. We must not wait for the next systemic crisis to address the difficulties. in the last four years we have made considerable progress in strengthening the structures of economic and monetary union. But we need to do more. The reform proposed must be a European mobilising project. It should be the opportunity to recover the promises of the European project as a whole, promises of economic security, civic freedom and real convergence of the economic possibilities of all European peoples. It must represent the opportunity to respond to the centrifugal forces that today threaten this project and to the question that has fallen on the citizens' Europe. All this means that much has been done and that much is within our reach. Four years ago, I, like millions of Portuguese, believed that Portugal would not fail. I know there were times when, despite all dedication and courage, many had their doubts. There were times when the size of the obstacles seemed to make the best of our efforts. But we endured and did not fail. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Four years later, and looking at the obstacles that we still need to overcome, I continue to believe that the future of Portugal is in our hands. [[On your feet, applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u23	I am aware that 27 Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. As you know, the first group of six requests for clarification lies with the six parliamentary groups, each being assigned 5 minutes. With regard to the other 21 requests for clarification, the Bureau is waiting for Mr Prime Minister to decide on what order and how he will answer them. The first speaker to speak is Mr Ferro Rodrigues, by the PS Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u24	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr Prime Minister had put the hypothesis of this debate not to be a déja vu, but, by his intervention, it begins with a déja vu: propaganda made on a totally unrealistic basis, especially when it speaks of the economy and employment, and branding threats of return to the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It happens that, in the return to the past, you are the experts,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... since, at the moment, Portugal has a poverty rate as it was 15 years ago, a job situation as it was 20 years ago, an investment situation as it was 30 years ago and an emigration situation as it was 50 years ago! [[Shame!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u25	And that color image of orange and blue that you have tested in the last two days is an image that is totally denied in the last 24 hours. You don't have to go any further, just read newspaper titles for the last 24 hours. Let's see... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Can you please shut up? It's just that I was quiet while I was listening to the Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Note : « Trade balance deficit increased in 2014 » — Lusa ; « Private health expenditure in Portugal and Greece with the greatest growth of the OECD » — Observer ; « Malparado das famílias e delle entreprises resurgence en mayo » — Lusa ; « Malparado ; « Malparado de las entres entres entres entres entres entres entreser ; « Malparado ; « Malparado de las entres entres entres entres entres entres entres les ; « Lusa ; « Lusa ; « Malparado misparado de los les loans de la troica » — Publico; « Debres de las de las de las rétres entres entres ; « Decurs surité social social sociales en trétres de las en trétés en trétés en Portugal eaux social social social sociales en tréténées ; « Public; « Sénées les les en trézées en lées ; « Sénées et social social social ; « Public; « Étres les ; « Public; « Dênées en lées les les les les les sénées sénées de lénées les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les énées les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les les [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reality of the last 24 hours, which barres your unrealism and your propaganda. The Nation, Prime Minister, is impoverished, the Portuguese people are weakened. How did you respond to the accusations that the Secretary-General of the PS, Antonio Costa, made last week, in which he drew attention to various vices, what he called « capital sins»? First of all, the elections that have won based on mistification and political lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, an evolving situation of unemployment, emigration and the problems of precariousness such as had never been in Portugal. Thirdly, poverty and inequality at levels that are completely unacceptable to all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, a ferocious attack on the middle class, through the greatest fiscal bleeding that ever occurred in this country. Fifthly, the dismantling of fundamental public services in several areas, particularly in social areas. Sixth, investment in key strategic sectors: knowledge, knowledge, science, technology, culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Seventh, the fall of public investment and private investment which, compared to those of the years prior to its governance, are far below, Mr. Prime Minister. And you could still talk about the scandals that are appearing there in the privatisations. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u26	Just read in the Court of Auditors reports what is said about REN... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and what is said about the farce that was the order of the CP to EMEF before a privatisation process, when it was developing, which is a shameful thing, and which has been treated, and very well, by the Court of Auditors, in its report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to these problems, which express the state of a nation in impoverishment and a weakened people, we also have the state of the state. And the Portuguese state is today very low. The Portuguese state is diminished by the loss of public confidence in democratic institutions, and you have your responsibility there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese State is diminished by the loss of confidence that the agents themselves who work in sovereignty functions have in their own role. It is dramatic what is happening in the Internal Administration, in the Defense, in the Foreign Affairs, in the fundamental areas of Portuguese sovereignty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u27	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u28	I shall conclude, Madam President. There is an acepal follow-up with regard to the Eurogroup and the Council with regard to Greece. I say to you, Mr Prime Minister, that this House adopted a resolution last Friday calling on the Government to ensure that Portugal does not cease to play an active and encouraging role in understanding the vital interests of Europe and the Member States, including Greece. I ask you: what did the Prime Minister do in favour of this understanding, when he has been, as you all know, at the service of building obstacles to any understanding? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u29	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u30	I shall conclude, Madam President. The nation needs an alternative of confidence within the euro and the European Union, and that is what we propose in our programme. We are waiting for the coalition programme, which should have been presented eight days ago. And what do we have? Zero! Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will ask many questions. We go on the street, in companies, in services, and the questions we bring you here are questions that the people ask and to which the government answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u31	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u32	Mr. Prime Minister, do not hide, answer without tibias, answer with frontality and without any political sound! [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u34	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, we know that the Socialist Party has reacted with a lot and incomprehensible azia... [[PS protests.]] ... the results that are being disclosed on economic performance in Portugal. It's true! When the Socialist Party left the government in 2011, unemployment increased, the economy contracted...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u35	By any chance you are in this house, Prime Minister... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u36	Mr. Prime Minister, let's wait a minute for the elders to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u37	Madam President, we have already had a lot of experience in these debates and I am sure that Mr Ferro Rodrigues will be paying attention to what I will tell him. When the Socialist Party left the Government in 2011 unemployment increased, debt had increased, the economy stagnant and contracting—it is true! — what is exactly the opposite of what is happening. The external imbalance had been prolonged and quite deep, and today is exactly the opposite. That is why, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I think the Socialist Party, with this history of the seven capital sins, has lost a good opportunity to, as it is usually said, change the needle to other conversations than these. But let me respond to your seven capital sins with another Biblical image: with the 10 plagues that the Socialist Party has left Portugal so that they do not fall into forgetfulness. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] First of all, and since we are talking about the 10 plagues of Egypt, let's start with the pharaonic works: the PPPs, the TGV, all those extraordinary works that would have to produce immense wealth in the country, but that only yielded responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Secondly, the programmes of stability and growth, of poor memory, which did not solve anything to the country, but which brought increased taxes and cuts of wages in public service. [[PS protests.]] Third plague : in Portugal there was one of the greatest inequalities that existed throughout the European Union. In 2011 Portugal was one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. Fourth plague: bulky and ruinous budget deficits — almost 10 % in 2009, more than 10 % in 2011. Fifth plague: worrying external deficits, which averaged around 10 % in the last decade until 2011. Sixth plague: the complete de-government of the State business sector, which accumulated operational debt and financial debt. Seventh Socialist plague, Mr. Member : the nationalization of BPN. [[Well remembered!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u38	Eighth socialist pest: the tariff deficit in electricity which, if it had not had responded on the side of this government with bold measures, today would be entailing increases in the tariff, in real terms, in the house of the two digits, above 10 %. Ninth socialist plague: the galloping debt—more than 20 percentage points, almost as much as in the time of external financial assistance—for seven years of socialist governments,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... culminating in the expulsion of Portugal from the financial markets and the request for external assistance and, therefore, with the request to come from the troika. Tenth plague that the Socialist Party in the Government has left us: a structural unemployment above 10 %, Mr Deputy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You can therefore do the reading of the newspapers, and I am sure that you are doing a very careful reading of the newspapers, but there are two things that you must also pay attention to. First of all, what called the shame of privatization represented to the Portuguese State twice as much of the financial cash that the Socialist Party had promised to Portugal, which was to sell by half what we were able to sell at good price. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, bear in mind that Portugal, along with the other 17 countries in the euro area, has played a very active role in finding an understanding with Greece. And, Mr President, the insistent references — I would say even desperate — of the Socialist Party to want to take the parties that support this government, the PSD and the CDS-PP, and the Government itself to prevent an agreement between the institutions and Greece is simply laughable, laughable, Mr President! But let me tell you that I would like to hear you comment on what has been the public intervention of former socialist ministers, former Ministers of Socialist Finance, on the negotiations with Greece. Then, Mr President, perhaps we can have a more orderly conversation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u39	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u40	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to start by saying that I am not in any press magazine, nor am I going to be in newspaper titles. I will stop in what is the Portuguese reality of 2015, which is a very different reality than we had in Portugal in 2011. And it is quite different because, as Mr Prime Minister said, we had a government and a majority with strategic firmness and a sense of responsibility. Otherwise, let's see, Prime Minister. In 2011 we had the troika in Portugal, in 2015 we did not have the troika in Portugal ; in 2011 we were entering economic recession ; in 2015 we are going in the second year with growth of our economy ; in 2011 we had six years followed by increase of unemployment, fortunately, in 2015 we are more than two years with high unemployment but falling consistently ; when we arrived at the government, in 2011 we had a public deficit greater than 10 % and when we entered 2016 we will have a public deficit less than 3 %, the lowest since 25 April. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the reality of which we cannot escape in a debate about the state of the nation. I know that the Socialist Party, the opposition parties will try to divert the debate from what is essential. But the essential thing, Mr Prime Minister, is that in these years there have been those who said that the goals we proposed were not going to be achieved and that, therefore, we should have asked our creditors for more time and more money. And those were the same ones who wanted to tell the country that we would need a second rescue, a cautious program, that our economy would enter a recessive spiral. Now, they are also on trial today, because the state of the nation is the state of the country, of the Portuguese, and the evaluation of what the government does, the parties of the majority, and also the opposition parties. And the opposition parties failed, and failed roundly, all their prophecies for Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Perhaps they had not failed, perhaps in Portugal today we had the banks closed; perhaps in Portugal today we had the people in line, in Multibank, to access their savings. Had they not failed, perhaps the Portuguese pensioners would have doubted whether they would receive their pensions. But that is not the Portuguese reality. You've failed. The Portuguese reality is quite different from the one I just characterized. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And more: Mr. Members who talk about poverty know that the mother and father of poverty are deficit, debt, public investment in pharaoh, uncontrolled public spending, structural unemployment. All this is because of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u41	It's the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u42	You know, today Portuguese can face the future with more hope, they can even expect that they will overcome the main difficulties they feel every day, because the country grows in a healthy way, there are job opportunities, each one begins to have an opportunity to sign their project of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u43	There's people listening out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u44	But the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen doubt what I'm saying. It was good for them to listen not only to what many citizens say about their opinion but also to the main international political players. As you are so attentive to social communication, you will find in newspapers and magazines, television and radio many opinions regarding the Portuguese people, the Portuguese authorities on the way we have been going in recent years. To the contrary, you are challenged today by a politician, even in your areas, who says otherwise, who shows disrespect for the way we live in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u45	The economic advisor to Durão Barroso!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u46	Unfortunately, in order to disenfranchise the ability of Portuguese, Portuguese companies, Portuguese families, Portuguese politicians, we only have to hear in Portugal the politicians of disbelief, defeatism, pessimism, the "olds of the Restelo" who will stand to look at history and will not understand the transformation that Portugal has begun in recent years and that is being reflected in the daily life of many and many Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u48	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, you said that many people did not believe that our goals could be achieved, and I just want to return to that finding, which today seems trivial, but that did not happen by chance. Really, we've met the goals we've set. We know the high cost that the country paid and that we all paid for the imbalances that were accumulated in the past and for the corrections of these imbalances during the period of economic and financial assistance. We also know that it will take many years to deal with some of these imbalances, especially those relating to the debt stock that comes from the past, as well as the high level of unemployment that we still have in our society. But it is very different to look at a big problem that we still have in front of us and to know that we can freely discuss between ourselves the best options and decisions to make than have to walk hand-in-hand extended to accept creditors' conditions to solve our problems. This is a very big difference: it is the difference between those who invoke freedom of decision and the empire that we can properly show ourselves in a certain way autonomous vis-à-vis the outside that gives in to the reality of those who have to submit to the demands they make when the money is finished. That is what happened in Portugal and that is what we do not want to happen again. When we looked at the whole of the European countries, Portugal was surely the country which had accumulated the most imbalance, external and internal: there had been a structural growth of unemployment from several years to this part, there was an external imbalance resulting from a bad model of economic development, in which every year the economy as a whole, which not only the State, to be able to invest and not grow, accumulated responsibilities before the outside. That is why, Mr President, you have the courage that the Portuguese wanted us to complete this exercise. I recall again that even when we went through a political crisis in 2013, the Portuguese realized that if the government had not found within itself, within it, enough strength to overcome the problems that were placed upon us by the way we had to perform and execute the Memorandum of Understanding, we would all have lost and, to this extent, the failure of the government would be the failure of the country and the Portuguese. The Portuguese understood this, regardless of their political and party orientation or proximity. That is why, Mr President, we, Portugal, have succeeded in these years in achieving the goals we have proposed, because there has been no support from the Portuguese for us to be able to do so. Unfortunately—I have already said—we have had no support from the socialist opposition or from the other oppositions to achieve these goals. on the contrary, what they were saying was that it was necessary to renegotiate, to throw the towel to the ground, to say, in some way, as those who put a punch on the table, « we prefer to pass worse than to accept these conditions». And today, unfortunately, we know what it costs, but not Portugal! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u49	Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u50	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is the last debate in the state of this country, and it is indeed important to recall the path we have taken, the country we have inherited and the country we will deliver, as is normal in a democracy, to the sovereign will of the people. After listening to Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, although we, in most cases, when we want to hear what the country thinks, we're going to the street to talk to people,... [[PCP laughter.]] ...we are not enough with the newspapers, as seems to suffice the Socialist Party... [[PS protests.]] But, as Mr Ferro Rodrigues said, after hearing Mr Rodrigues, I will also mention a small press release: Newspaper of 24 March 2011 : « Socrates goes to Brussels today to explain the political situation » ; Public of 6 April 2011 : « Socrates will address a request for financial assistance to the European Commission »; TVI24 on 6 April 2011 : says Teixeira dos Santos that « Rescue was fatal as the destination» ; TVI24 on 16 April 2011 : « Teixeira dos Santos confident in the possibility of approval of aid to Portugal ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does this not remind you of anything that is happening today, anywhere else? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The Portuguese don't forget! Mr Prime Minister, what we found was a country with limited sovereignty, with a very long memorandum, with uncontrolled public accounts, with a deficit of more than 10 %, with irresponsible public debt interest, with uncontrolled future expenses, such as PPPs, and economic recession. The country we gave to the Portuguese has its full sovereignty. It was possible to comply with the Memorandum with a single loan, a single deadline and without any kind of precautionary aid, having abdicated, including the last tranche; today we repay debt with more favourable interest; the deficit will be, for the first time, less than 3 %; Portugal's economic growth is higher than the euro area average; more and more consumers and confident companies, with confidence rates similar to those of 15 and 17 years ago; investment is growing 5, 4 %; net business creation is growing...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u51	It's an oasis!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u52	« It is an oasis », Mr. José Magalhães shouted. No, it's not! Unemployment has fallen consistently, but it is still a social fracture, with excessively high values. But what the government has not done, as others have done, was artificially increase pensions or public service salaries to win elections! That's what distinguishes us! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] So, Prime Minister, it is important to remember where we left and where we arrived, especially to understand what we have in front of us, and that is still difficult, certainly, and brings challenges. But it is also important to remember where we cannot go, which is to return to time of irresponsibility and restore everything to everyone at the same time so that then everything and all at the same time suffer a very long rescue. That is what will happen if the Socialist Party has governmental responsibilities. It is good for the Portuguese to meditate on that. If the Socialist Party has governmental responsibilities, we will run the risk of having a much harder rescue in 2017 or 2018 than we had in 2011 by the Socialist Party, for the simple reason that it is not the first, it is not the second, it is not the third, it will be the fourth! And we don't want that to happen again. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to say that the path of the majority is clear: recovery of purchasing power with progressive responsibility. That is how it is in the pensions, the elimination of overtaxes, the reduction of Portuguese charges. It did not happen from one moment to the other, but at this stage, and with this Memorandum, as Mr Prime Minister recalled, and well, in addition to what was our primary duty, which was to return full sovereignty to this country, it was possible to make structural reforms, particularly in the economic model of development. The model that brought us to rescue and bankruptcy, based only on public spending and consumption, although artificial, failed. The model that we present to the Portuguese today is based on the promotion of private initiative and exports. I leave only one number: in 2005 the export weight in GDP was 28 %; today it is 41 %. And there are legitimate expectations that in 2020 it could exceed 50 % by virtue of workers, businesses and entrepreneurs, but also by virtue of a government that promoted, agileized and above all removed obstacles which so often prevented companies and workers from being able to launch into internationalisation because it believed in other types of economic model than that of public works or PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u53	And what's the question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u54	Speaking of this, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say that, on our part, the way is clear: stability, responsibility and consistency. We can't go back. I'm sure we're not going back! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u55	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u56	Mrs. President. Mr Nuno Magalhães, there is no doubt that when we read the newspapers we always find things to each other's liking. But when we govern we are particularly focused, concerned about what are the great trends in the great end objectives we have. That's what matters. Every day the foam of politics brings various episodes. But when a country, for 10 years, owes itself to 10 % a year, this is not a conjuncural episode, it threatens the economic sustainability of a nation. When the unemployment in Portugal in 2005 was around 7 %, 6 % and in July 2011 it was already at home 12 %, when it is so, Mr. Deputies, this trend, which has been gradual, is concerned. When we looked at the public debt ratio in the country in 2005 and saw that until 2011 it gradually rose, with the exception of one year, more than 20 percentage points, taking into account that the economic conditions involved were favorable—that is, we did not go to borrow external loans, nor rescues, we were going to benefit from the single currency, from the structural funds, from the economic and monetary union and from abundant money at low prices—and, despite these conditions, investment fell, at the same time as we knew that the economy in percapitated terms had grown as much as in the Great American Depression or in the lost decade of Japan, that is worrying, Mr Depute. Why is it worrying? Because this does not allow a nation to continue to bet on the social state as it should and to offer security and trust to its citizens, as their duty is. That is why, Mr President, when we look at the newspapers, we really need to look for a very broad time frame to find out what the big trends are. And today, Mr, the major trends are symmetrical to those which led us in 2011 to the rescue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u57	at the end of four years, I can say today in this debate that although we still have an unacceptablely high level of unemployment, worrying poverty exchanges,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u58	Two thousand and seven hundred Portuguese are pockets of poverty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u59	... an unfair distribution of income between the Portuguese, cultural and social inequalities that we have to fight, there is no doubt that we can look to the future with other trust and hope, because we know that we are not walking towards sustainability and rescue, but we are walking to solve these problems that were on the table in the lives of the Portuguese before the 2011 ransom. And it is not tolerable that, after having managed to put our house in order, these problems will remain for the future, because this would not fit well with the model of economy developed, modern, cosmopolitan and open to the world as is what we want for our country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u60	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u61	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before discussing the state of the Nation in depth, I would like to ask you, in relation to the terrible list of pests which you listed in your reply to the PS, what is the position of your party in relation to these same plagues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u63	It was not insecticide, it was an integral part of these plagues that took place on the Portuguese people! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in a rigorous synthesis that does not sympathize with your propaganda of recovery and good path, the state of the nation is one of a more indebted, dependent country with more unemployment, more emigration, more poverty and more injustice. You and your government ruled against the Portuguese and against the country, but also against the promises they had made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u65	They made solemn proclamations ensuring that unemployment could no longer increase, but they will leave the country with high levels of unemployment, which reaches 1, 2 million Portuguese, and more 500 000 Portuguese, almost 10 % of the active population, to emigration. They swore that they would not increase taxes if they were government and that they would not massacre anyone who had already been penalized. Not only have they increased all the taxes on whom they work, as they have made the greatest tax increase ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u67	They said it was silly to talk about cuts in subsidies and the first measure they took was to cut the Christmas allowance and then pay and reforms. They guaranteed that they could not be families paying for the crisis and more cuts in public service. With this government, labour income has been devalued by 16 % in real terms and almost twice as much in the Public Administration, with a huge impact on the purchasing power of families. They said they were going to put an end to the partisanization of the Public Administration, but after all they flooded the heads and leadership positions of the state of commissioners of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u69	All but that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u70	They stated: “No one will see us imposing more sacrifices on those who need them the most and those who have the most will have to help those who have the least.” He's alive! The state of the Nation they leave is a state of a impoverished country, with more than 800,000 Portuguese living below the poverty line, and an increasingly unjust and unequal country. This way of treating those who are in poverty today, considering a mere scholarship, demonstrates their sensitivity to a brutal reality in our country. [[PCP applause.]] So I ask: where are the promises of a better life? But no less is the lie about debt. They announced that all the sacrifices requested by the Portuguese would serve to pay the debts, to solve the problems of the country's indebtedness. They cut the income, cut the drugs, cut the surgeries, cut the unemployment allowances, cut the patient transportation, cut the supplement for the elderly. They left thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in bankruptcy and ruined families, who then went to trouble the house where they lived. They offered public enterprises and sectors that were interested — and that are so lacking in the country — to large economic groups. They did all of this in the name of debt and their payment. And what was the result? The debt has grown EUR 50 billion! Today we have one of the largest debts in the world as a percentage of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u72	He affirmed the current Deputy Prime Minister, Paulo Portas, in a debate between candidates for the 2011 legislation, which, and I quote, « it is not possible to acquit a Prime Minister who led public debt to EUR 170 billion ». So, what now? What about a Prime Minister and a government that brought the debt to EUR 220 billion? [[PCP applause.]] I know that for Mr. Vice-First Minister there are no irrevocable things, but this was a clarification that should be made. They told the Portuguese that sacrifices would be worth it, but after all, the country is more indebted than ever. No, it wasn't a calculation error. Debt was only the pretext for imposing the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that they always wanted to do. In fact, an unsuspecting figure, Mr. Philippe Legrain, economic adviser to Dr. Durão Barroso, said: « Portugal is more indebted than before the Programme and private debt did not fall. Portugal is even worse than it was at the beginning of the Programme". Mr. Prime Minister, don't say the figure is suspicious. Instead of taking the necessary steps to renegotiate debt and make an effort and align with other countries that have the same problem, such as Greece, Spain, Ireland, it is unsustainable... Don't laugh, Prime Minister. I've seen your predecessors laugh a lot and then they've been fired. They've lost! [[PCP applause.]] Everyone has already noticed that the Portuguese Government prefers to align with the European Union in blackmailing against the Greek people, because the measures they are trying to impose on Greece today are the same as PSD and CDS would like to continue to impose here. And also everyone has already realized that this alignment is the only form of the PSD and the CDS save their discourse from the « eternal sacrifices».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u73	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u74	Mr. Prime Minister, more debt, more dependence, more unemployment, more emigration, more poverty. We do not limit ourselves to a balance sheet or statistics exercise, we talk about the lives of the Portuguese and the country. In each statistical number there are ruined, impoverished lives of millions of Portuguese to whom they want until they steal hope in a better and more dignified life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u75	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u76	We will fight for the Portuguese to have a better and more dignified life. The Portuguese people will be able to make due judgment, taking into account the state of their lives, taking into account the state of the nation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u77	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u78	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you like to put everything in the same bag, but in fact we are not all « flour from the same bag ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u79	I'm just telling the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u80	Mr President, the Portuguese Communist Party — I will say, fortunately to Portugal — that it has not had governmental responsibilities since 1975 until today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u81	Thank God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u82	That's why the country is like it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u83	... he likes to consider that everything that happened in Portugal over these years was bad because there was no government contribution from the Communist Party Portuguese. Mr President, this contradiction has to be resolved with Portuguese citizens and voters. It is not with me. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member speaks in propaganda and I do not leave the results we have achieved out of my hands. I mean, the objective results that we can observe have to serve, not only to see the way we go, but also to look forward to the future. We know that these results say that today there is an investment recovery, that there is a growth in the economy, that there is a growth in employment, that there is a decrease in unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u84	And 50 billion more debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u85	Let me say, Mr President, that, contrary to what you have suggested, we were able to obtain a higher social expenditure, despite the restrictions. In part, it will be possible to say: "Well, but it was because there were negative social results that were covered by social insurance". That's right, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u86	Social insurance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u87	There are more poor and unemployed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u88	Social insurance has worked in Portugal, what we call 'automatic stabilizers' have worked in Portugal, and that is important, Mr President. You know why? When we only have a financial envelope to spend and we cannot exceed the money that gives us that allowance, whether quarterly or not, when there is no other money but the money that gives us to spend and if we still succeed in fulfilling all our obligations by spending more on unemployment subsidies, because there were more unemployed, and by transferring more social support to institutions that provide a relevant role of social support to whom most needed — this was done beyond the financial envelope that was intended for us — this was due to the growing market of confidence that we were raising from the investors' side and also due to the fact that we have managed to implement a privatisation programme with a much higher financial framework. I mean, we managed to finance the public expenditure that was necessary, particularly social expenditure, by the way we governed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u89	They sold the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u90	Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa said the debt has grown. Mr President, I do not know any country that borrows EUR 78 billion and whose debt is low. I don't know! [[PCP protests.]] It is not possible to borrow almost EUR 80 billion and say that the debt will be reduced. But the trend is that it is going to fall — indeed, it is already coming down, Mr President! [[PCP protests.]] It is true that we could lower the debt ratio in a more pronounced way if we were more reckless, but we have not been reckless and have kept important financial cash in order to cope with any volatility in the markets, and that, Mr President, has a price. At this time, the honourable Member should be satisfied with Portugal not being caught off guard, that is, in order not to let the pensioners, the civil servants, finally, all the Portuguese who need a government to be responsible for ensuring its stability and security. The honourable Member should be pleased that we are not speeding up the decline in this ratio just to show it to the elections, leaving the Portuguese unsuspecting...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u91	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u92	...in front of international reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would prefer that the honourable Member come here to discuss whether or not the ratio is falling, keeping the country properly trained to respond to any imponderable that may arise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u93	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u94	Finally, the honourable Member said — and I will conclude — that we do not understand whether it was the Portuguese Government! ? ) blackmailing Greece. Mr. Deputies, no one is blackmailing Greece. [[PCP laughter.]] Let me tell you that what Europe has done with regard to Greece is what has never been done in Europe with regard to any country. No country! What Europe has lent to Greece in these years has not lent to anyone else! [[PCP protests.]] Let me add, in order to respond to the exhilarated Members of your bench, that the debts accumulated in the Greek banks were debts of the Greeks...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u95	They weren't, no! They were doubts about the German and French banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u96	...they were not debts of other Europeans, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The money that has been lent to Greece has not been lent to any other European country! Mrs. Members, two programmes were presented, a cut was made to Greece's public debt of more than 60 % and, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the Greek Government has already asked for a third programme — which said it would never ask — for the next three years. Mr President, Greece needs help. I will tell you, Mr, that at the last Eurozone summit held yesterday, everyone but everyone said they were available to give Greece more help. But, Mr President, in all European nations there are democracies, in all European nations they are made sacrifices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u97	That is the speech of revenge against the Greeks!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u98	...in no nation there is an example in which one can borrow unconditionally. This does not exist in Greece and does not exist anywhere in the world. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u99	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u100	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am sorry, but I am not going to join the Bible debate, and I am not even going to speak of 2008, 2009, because that government has already voted and has already been judged. I think it was good to talk about the state of the nation, but I do not resist starting with the state of government, until today it seems worth everything: the job goes down and Mr. Prime Minister congratulates himself, because the job goes up; the debt rises up — this government has increased debt like no other — and the majority rejuvenate, because debt is a matter of the past; INE yesterday said that the commercial balance has worsened and Pires de Lima has become proud of its success and now I hear Mr. Prime Minister say: "They want to borrow Greece as no one has lent to Portugal! » Mr. Prime Minister, they didn't lend, they gave! And a Prime Minister who, in his active life, became known to train aerodrome technicians who did not exist with European money and by friend Relvas to sign orders in the government should be more careful before making accusations about the other peoples. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u101	That is desperate for you, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u102	Mr Prime Minister, this is the debate of the Nation and I want to start with Portugal, and we will now go to Europe. Portugal has lost 300 000 jobs since its government took over and is now the country with the highest rate of European Union emigration; gross domestic product has fallen EUR 11 billion; the standard of living of citizens has receded 25 years; public debt has risen more than EUR 50 billion;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u103	In Greece you're okay, aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u104	... the country has more than 700 000 unemployed without any support; more than 2 million people live in poverty, and this number does not stop growing; this is the country of the emergencies in ruins, of the chaotic beginning of the school year and of the paralyzed courts. We have to talk about this country! Well the government may be in a state of denial and want to make only the propaganda speech, but today we will talk about the state of the Nation. I heard, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister announced that he was going to wage a war without a quartet on inequalities, but, Prime Minister, I don't know why he did but I notice that his Minister for Finance is preparing a cut in pensions of EUR 600 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u105	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u106	...and that your Minister of Social Security has been cutting into the CSR to pay twice to the social canteens. If this is to wage war on inequalities, we're talking! [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister himself recently regretted that the reform he did not have further lowered labour costs in a country where labour costs are already half of neighbouring Spain. But, Prime Minister, the day we make this debate maybe nothing marks the state of the Nation so much that it has become Portugal in the country of low cost purchases...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u107	Buy low cost? Oh, my God! That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u108	...and the millionaire business for international finance. The privatisations which the Court of Auditors has already denounced as damaging to the public interest, with the example of the only audit so far, are the image of the huge sale of garage in which this government has transformed the country. EDP and REN were sold far below their value. And it's not the Left Block that says so, it's the Court of Auditors! The BESI, by José Maria Ricciardi, served as an evaluator for the State, advised the privates in the contract and then they all went there to launch the book of Miguel Relvas. Nice picture we saw! Parvalorem irregularly hired a company. No transparency rule has been complied with in this process. The State was left without any way to enforce the bill of charges or the public interest, because there are not even effective penalties in the event of non-compliance. We've lost control of a strategic sector and in 10 years we'll have lost more dividends than the sales link. And this money will have come out of the country, while families pay more and more for the light and the state is left without instruments to defend citizens and businesses. And so many other examples of this robbery of privatization: tranquility — sold to the Chinese of Fosun, because it would be too exposed to the General Deposit Box ; Fosun bought tranquility for 1000 million euros and then it was there to take 1300 million euros to put in Fosun itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u109	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u110	... the same Fosun dependent on the Chinese stock market that is implosioning and which is now profiled as a very likely new bank owner. Mr. Prime Minister, an entire debate would not give each of these poorly explained businesses, starting with the TAP where the Portuguese investor appears as the iron head of a foreign investor to deliberately circumvent European rules. But we're going to the New Bank. The Prime Minister here, in a fortnight debate, assures me that taxpayers would not lose a tot. From the first hour, the Block said that putting 4900 million public debt into the Resolution Fund was to question the public record, but the Minister of Finance, on 4 September 2014 guarantee, taxive, that it was important to stress that the law does not allow taxpayers to bear that cost. Now the law did not allow but it did allow, because the government has changed the payment conditions of the bank to the state for a few generous and long 20 years and now we see that the public deficit can reach 6 % with more than 2000 million losses with the sale of the New Bank. When it became clear that the GES was dragging the BES, the government was saying that the problem was the private ones, that the privates were going to solve, that there was no money at all, that the privates who understood themselves and that the government was washing their hands. Now, the taxpayers' account has arrived and this account is nothing nice, Mr Prime Minister : EUR 2000 million to guarantee unemployment support, which is denied to hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. It is also this account of the « let go» of the government, throwing all things at a Governor of the Banco de Portugal — who has done nothing — that Mr. Prime Minister has to explain today. Mr. Prime Minister, can you still assure us, after we know that the deficit will rise, and much, that the New Bank does not cost 1 cent to the Portuguese? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u112	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, some of the issues that arose during her speech were raised in fifteen-year debates in this Parliament over the past four years and were answered and therefore saved time by trying to answer directly to what seems to me to be more significant. First of all, on the report of the Court of Auditors, to which the honourable Member called for a complaint, on the privatisation process either of EDP or of REN, Mrs Deputy, the Government made a financial result in all privatisation operations for the State which was about twice as estimated by the previous Government in the Memorandum of Understanding. The honourable Member calls this a « garage sale ». Mrs Deputies, I would therefore like to have a lot of'sales of garage' to be able to have a significant financial cash, that is, of the best that have been recorded, even in these industries where they happened, like those we had. She said: « But EDP and REN were sold below value ». I have already dismissed this observation by the Court of Auditors. It's not valid, Your Honor! It's not valid, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u113	The Court of Auditors was only good when the PS was in government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u114	That's the way it is, Mrs. Deputy. We live in a democratic country. Don't hurt that we can confront the opinions. That is not a valid argument! And why is that not a valid argument?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u115	Now, the Court of Auditors is no longer good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u116	Maybe the honourable Member would like to know why. It is not a valid argument, because we cannot treat the future dividends that these companies could bring as if they were a perpetual income. If there's something that can't be treated as a perpetual income, it's the dividends of public companies, Mrs. Deputy! This is the first thing any economist should know. But even if we had treated future dividends as a perpetual income based on the principle that companies would always have those good results every year and for many years, in fact, when this value is discounted at today's prices, we must also consider the price that would have to be paid for finding the alternative financing to that which would cover the result of the sale of these shares, because they also had a cost of opportunity and the State needed that money. The honourable Member must agree that one thing is to give us the value that has been given by those discounted shares today, and another is to go to the market to collect this funding at the costs that the market imposes for this financing. So if you put the two things together, you'll realize that the account is done differently -- and it makes sense that it's done differently. We also needed that money and if we had to pay on the market for it, then, Mrs Deputies, we would conclude that the result of the sale was extremely positive and not below the value, as you say. Secondly, Parvalorem did not hire any company, Mrs. It was the CaixaBI that hired the company that Mrs. Deputies refers to, that was not Parvalorem. But I would like to say to the honourable Member that it was the President of the Court of Auditors himself who, with regard to TAP, when the main opposition party came to raise doubts about the transparency of the proceedings, he said that the case had all the information that was required, as did the proceedings he referred to. It had a follow-up commission, all relevant data were published and audited and all competitors were able to consult them, so there can be no more transparent and open process. Therefore, Mrs. Member, the idea that we went to do millionaire business on account of more or less obscure interests does not exist. Finally, it is true, Mrs Deputies, that I said yesterday that we will wage a war without quartel to inequalities, because, as I have already said here, these inequalities were inherited; it was not the action of this government, even considering the extraordinary moment that we went through, that promoted them, that created them. Portugal was already one of the most unequal countries in Europe before 2011. [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen. Members do not, of course, agree. They think Portugal was one of the most advanced countries—we know! — and that comes in all the books, in all the reports that there were no social inequalities in Portugal! We know that! [[PS protests.]] The truth is, Mrs Deputy, there were, and many, and we have to promote the fight against these inequalities. But it is not true, Mrs. Member, that it is cutting pensions. This has already been well clarified after the 15th year debate. The honourable Member said that we had accumulated EUR 2000 million of damage from the sale of the New Bank. It must be well informed because I still have no results that can be attributed to the sale of the New Bank. I don't know if the honourable Member has, but I don't have that result. However, I know that what the Resolution Fund used for the capitalisation of this Bank — which is being sold — does not correspond to a charge of Portuguese taxpayers, corresponds to a charge of the Portuguese financial system. It was so by definition that it was constituted. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] Don't you think it's that way? Would you prefer the taxpayers' money to make this funding? It wasn't, Mrs. Member. The Resolution Fund is a responsibility of the Portuguese financial system. [[BE's protests.]] Therefore, Madam Member, the State is a creditor of the financing it has made to this Resolution Fund and my expectation is that the Portuguese are not affected by this operation. Now, I cannot swear — I have already said here — that the financial system will not have any costs, but we will only know when the sale has been completed. But it is very different the nationalized state or the state, as the honourable Member here has defended, to take account of the bank in Portugal to manage it with the good results known from the past or to say that we do not involve the taxpayers' money in this exploitation. Mrs Deputy, the resolution of BES was just to prevent it from being the money of the Portuguese taxpayers paying for the mismanagement of that bank. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u117	But the one who paid was the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u118	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u119	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact I do not know how I can reach the end of the legislature which is still stupefied with the speeches of Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u121	Please note: in this debate, there was a very funny part where Mr Prime Minister decided to talk about the 10 PS plagues. I wonder why Mr. Prime Minister has decided to hide in the analysis of these plagues that the PSD has made possible three PECs ( Stability and Growth Programme) of the PS Government, has made possible the State Budget of the PS Government, has voted on the nationalisation of BPN, has signed the agreement with the troika- in fact signed the three PS, PS, PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u123	Mr. Prime Minister, didn't you say so? Not to conclude that PSD is also a plague? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, this only shows that this alternation only gives to do much the same in absolutely essential things. You had a lot of responsibility for what you're accusing, and you must take it. Mr Prime Minister begins and ends his mandate—and the Government as a whole— with a serious problem of credibility in his speech. We have said many times here, and perhaps in the debate on the state of the nation it is important to remind you that Mr. Prime Minister said a lot of things in election campaign and then did exactly the opposite. He said that he would not increase taxes, that he would not cut wages and, at the time, he already knew the troika programme. So he was not surprised by measures that he thought he didn't have to do, but he had to. So, in fact, what you did was lie, there is no other word that can characterize this. He also said the cuts were temporary, but they moved on. The troika has left, but they have continued the cuts and will continue in a next legislature. Mr Prime Minister even said that emigration has not increased in Portugal and has even failed to say here, in a 15-year debate, that VAT, with this government, has not increased. But how is it possible to arrive at this disembarkation, Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u124	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u125	And today it came with a new one: as one of the government's commitments was to reduce debt and as notoriously the debt did not fall, it increased, Mr. Prime Minister says that debt increased because it had to increase, it could not go down. So why didn't I tell the Portuguese and say exactly the opposite? Oh, my God! Mr Prime Minister, there are things that are in fact not at least acceptable. But it came with another new one: it defends — it has already been spoken here — the war without quartile to inequalities. How can we believe this in a government that has led the entire mandate, in full, to impoverish people to save a minority of rich people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u127	Mr. Prime Minister, how are you going to fight social inequalities? Oh, my God! We will try to test by taking two measures to see if this is the way: Mr Prime Minister wants to ensure that all the unemployed in Portugal will have access to social support, unemployment allowance, since today, with his Government, what happens is that two thirds do not receive any social support? Oh, my God! Is this the way to fighting inequality, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Will the Prime Minister return the VAT of the restoration by 13 %? Oh, my God! It is because we know that the increase to 25 % has caused a lot of unemployment. On the contrary, it will be an engine for job creation. Will you do that? Mr Prime Minister, will VAT be reduced to 13 %? It is perhaps important to have some concrete answers here. In fact, what Mr Prime Minister has hidden, in his initial speech and throughout the course of the debate, were things that cannot be ignored, because they are so serious that they need to be attended so that we can then give the appropriate and necessary answers for his resolution. Mr Prime Minister does not say that he has 2, 5 million Portuguese in those he called "poverty bags" as if they were pockets of poverty. Don't! It's a gross bag of poverty. And it increased with this government. Prime Minister, emigration is at very high levels — we have the highest rate of emigration in the European Union — unemployment is very high and we have absolutely worrying and growing long-term unemployment. I am so sorry that Mr Luís Montenegro has never raised his voice in the Assembly of the Republic, during all the debates that have taken place here, to show his stupefaction by waiting lines at employment centres or health centres to mark a simple consultation, to have access to the right to health and, you know, there are many people who are not going to the bank looking for money because they do not have it! Think about it, Mr Luís Montenegro. Think about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u128	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u129	Mr Prime Minister, as you see, there is a lot that has been forgotten in his initial speech and in the course of this debate. On Greece, I would also like to say something as simple as this: if Mr. Prime Minister and this government do not respect the Portuguese people, what expectation could we have to respect the people of Greece? Oh, my God! I did not have this expectation, although it must be pointed out that it is fair and necessary that, once and for all, one should begin to look at the interests and wishes of peoples and people and not for European elites. And this government, throughout its term of office, has proved to be completely subservient to the European elites. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u130	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u131	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I am glad that I can somehow surprise you with my speeches. The honourable Member says she can be amazed at all my speeches...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u132	Not all of them, some of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u133	...and I take that as a compliment. He also said that the PSD enabled some of the socialist plagues and that this, of course, should also be, in the Bible language of the Socialist Party, a capital sin. Madam Member, I would like to tell you that, when I was the leader of the major opposition party, because I was in opposition, as strange as this seems, I never stopped supporting constitutional governments that could present measures that they considered essential so that the country could avoid major problems. It is true, therefore, that we supported some of those decisions so that, according to the Prime Minister of then, he would not have to ask for an external rescue. It's true, see Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u134	But then he went there to sign the little paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u135	But it became clear that this was not the case, i.e., that the path that was being followed could only lead, as the then Minister of Finance acknowledged, to the external rescue. Mrs Deputy, that is why we democratically exercise our role as an alternative and why the Portuguese have chosen us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u136	What alternative? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u137	The honourable Member also said that many of the realities of these years are contradictory to that which was the electoral promise. Madam Member, my most important promise has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u138	It was to raise taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u139	It was to fulfill the Memorandum of Understanding and deliver Portugal from the external rescue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That, Mrs Deputy, was surely the greatest responsibility entrusted to me. Mrs. Deputy said it's a shame, because the cuts were temporary after all, but they stayed. Mr. Member, the cuts are temporary...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u140	Until 2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u141	...and it was in this sense that the Constitutional Court considered them. Now, it is exactly in these terms that they are being treated, all the more so that they are being progressively removed. It's because they're temporary they're being removed. The honourable Member must not have liked me to have said that it was necessary to give an unhindered war to inequalities, but it is true. The honourable Member then says: "Well, but then that certainly means that all the unemployed will have access to benefits."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u142	Isn't that fair? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u143	Member of Parliament, on the day when Portugal, as no other country in the world, has the right to have social insurance which covers the entire period of unemployment, on that day, I would not mind anything that such a law could be passed because that would mean that we had such prosperity that, regardless of the horizon of this accident, we would have the conditions to pay social insurance. in fact, Mrs Deputy, this does not exist in any country in the world. What exists in many European countries, especially in Eastern Europe, is unemployment insurance which ranges from three months to one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u144	Tax forgiveness to the New Bank is EUR 440 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u145	We, Mrs Deputy, contrary to these countries, fortunately, have advanced systems in which we have maintained, for the future, an unemployment allowance for at least 18 months and have achieved, despite what was in the Memorandum of Understanding, to extend it to all those who were already under the guarantee of this insurance mechanism before the legislation is passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u146	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u147	Therefore, we were able to extend the unemployment allowance to almost 24 months for all those who are older and longer in service. That's the truth, Mrs. Member. It is important that you know that we have social insurance mechanisms that enable us, like any developed country, to deal with what are economic contradictions. But, Mrs. Member, the economy is now growing. [[PCP protests.]] However, although the economy is growing and also employment, imagine, Mrs. Member, despite this, we have a level of coverage of social benefits and unemployment higher than that existing in 2011, which means that there has been social concern. I know that for Mrs. Member this is a paradox...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u148	It's not a paradox, it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u149	... and therefore I wonder how a Government of the PSD and CDS can spend money on social benefits, may have had the largest social benefits budget that there is memory in Portugal in recent years. It can't be, that's not possible! — says the honourable Member. But it was, Mrs. Member. Say that inside your party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, because time is scarce, I would just like to say that not only do I not consider that we had been subservient at any time, as deeply respect for the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u150	He's in sight! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u151	I deeply respect the Portuguese people. And I respect the other European peoples because, to me, the value of the person is above all and because in democratic societies all democratic results must be respected, even when we do not agree with them. That is the nature of a true democracy and true Democrats. And I do not accept, Mrs Deputies, any process of intention be that of Mrs Deputies, whoever she is. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u152	This is the first round of this debate on the state of the nation. We shall now move on to a second round of questions to be addressed to the Prime Minister, for whose wording the honourable Members are inscribed. Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves, of PS, Miguel Santos, of PSD, Jorge Machado, of PCP, Mariana Mortágua, of the Block of Left, José Junqueiro, of PS, Hugo Lopes Soares, of PSD, Rita Rato, of PCP, Odete João, of PS, and Carla Cruz, of PCP. These are the ladies. Members who are, for the time being, registered, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u153	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, worse than trying to rewrite history, it is to try to rewrite the present while it happens, because that is insulting the Portuguese who suffer, day by day, the consequences of this government's policy and to tell them, in their eyes, that they lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, truly, let us be clear and use the words: Mr. Prime Minister leads this House. Mind this House, when you want to say there was no increase in emigration! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mind, when you say there was no increase in debt! Mind, when he says there was no increase in inequalities, and Portugal is the country of the European Union that has had the greatest increase in inequalities! It is true that we had them, but we were decreasing them, and today we are increasing them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And that's what the Portuguese say on the street, Prime Minister. That's what the Portuguese ask you to tell this House! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister is missing the truth. And let us say the right word: Mr. Prime Minister! Mind surgically, mind with skill,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...but you can't keep lying. I wanted to highlight a fundamental aspect for inequalities, which is the area of education. Here too, four very clear examples are evidence of this legacy: we had 100 % full-time school today, we have 100 % abandonment, in a terrible retreat from public school, which was a mark of the quality of education in Portugal ; the offer of adult education recorded a loss of 160 000 adults, in four years of government of the current government ; in public higher education, of 102 000 students we had enrolled in higher education today, we have only 87 000, receding again in the capacity to strengthen higher education ; finally, Mr. Prime Minister, in scientific research, there is 65 % break in scholarships and the devastation of research centres. All this, Prime Minister, at the end of four years! It is not worth pretending that these four years did not exist. The Portuguese, parents, teachers, students and researchers remember, they won't forget, they know what they were told and they know what they want. The page will turn, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u154	To put your questions, you now have the floor of Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, speaking of the state of the nation is also discussing the state of health in Portugal, as a fundamental pillar of the democratic regime and as a primary value for the well-being of Portuguese. The question here is this: what has happened to health in Portugal in the last four years? And the answer can be found by the Members of the PSD, the CDS, the Socialist Party and the other opposition parties. But we can also find it in the technical reports and independent reports, as is the case with the report released yesterday by the Directorate-General for Health, The Health of the Portuguese. Perspective 2015, an official and formal technical report in which it is very clearly recognized that, in the last decade, the positive trend of the main health indicators in all phases of life is maintained and that the level of health of citizens has shown gains year after year. But we can also see the OECD report of May 2015, which concludes that the Portuguese health system has responded well to the financial pressures of recent years, successfully balancing the priorities of financial consolidation and continuous improvement of quality. More: Even in the years following the financial crisis, ambitious efforts were made to improve quality. We can also see the report of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, A Future for Health — We all have a role to play, in which we acknowledge that, despite great pressures, the health system has shown to be extraordinarily resilient, maintaining its services and standards; or, furthermore, the Global AgeWatch Index, which places Portugal in 23. the place, in 96 countries, in access to health, concluding that SNS is a strong pillar, which guarantees quality health care for Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u156	I'd like to hear you say that in a row of emergencies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u157	We can see the care activity, the family health units ( USF ) that were opened, the continued care, the seven new hospitals, the drug policy, with which the Portuguese pay the lowest price always by the drugs, the generic share increased to 50%, when it was 36 % in 2011 we reached 6 million free of moderate rates or the net increase of 2500 doctors in the National Health Service. But what is extraordinary is to check the starting point for these four years. And the starting point in 2011 was a National Health Service under a debt of EUR 3200 million, which generated, each year, EUR 400 million deficit and which was effectively released, paying debts, balances debts of EUR 1923 million. at the time, there were companies that had cut the supply to hospitals! Open... [[PS protests.]] And we did all this on our own! All this was done by the government and by the parties of the majority, well accompanied by the Portuguese, their resilience and their firmness,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... because, in these four years, what the opposition parties have done, in particular the Socialist Party, these Mr. Ladies and gentlemen sitting here and sitting in the government, it was 'to shake the water from the hood'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u158	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u159	The Portuguese only counted on them to bury the country, which was the legacy they left! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u160	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u161	Mr. Prime Minister, in the debate of the State of the Nation, it is necessary to refer to the state of health in Portugal and that is the reference I ask you for. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u162	To put your questions, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u163	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, no one believes what Mr Prime Minister has just said, because for four years he has done nothing but deceive the Portuguese. Four years ago, at the legislative elections, the then candidate for a Member, Passos Coelho, said : « They will not count on the PSD for a new attack on the middle class on behalf of external problems ». The Prime Minister now says that he wants to protect the Portuguese, knowing very well that, because of his Government's fault and choice, workers, whether from the Public Administration or from the private sector, are exploited, work more and earn less, through cuts in rights and wages, due to the increase and deregulation of the working time, by the elimination of holidays, by reducing the value paid for extraordinary work. And the workers are increasingly precarious, because the government has facilitated and made layoffs cheaper. He said the candidate Steps Coelho, at the time of the election campaign: « What the country needs to overcome this situation of difficulty is no more austerity ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u165	Mr. Prime Minister said today, and in an unacceptable way, that there are in the country « poverty exchanges», that he wanted a war without a quarter against injustices, when the government was responsible for the worst increase in poverty since fascism, reaching 2, 7 million Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u167	...and by worsening the theft of reforms and pensions of pensioners, after a lifetime of work and discounts. His coalition partner, the irrevocably resignative Dr. Paulo Portas, said: « Sometimes there are houses in Portugal where there is no job and attention must be paid to improving social support». Mr Prime Minister has now said that unemployment has fallen, knowing very well that real unemployment, which counts with the inactive and the disabled, has reached 1, 2 million workers and, of these, 900 000 have no unemployment allowance, because the PSD/CDS government has cut in the protection of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u168	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u169	It's seen that the word, coming from whoever comes, is worth very little. As Prime Minister, he did exactly the opposite of what he promised to do and, not satisfied, now, tries to fool the Portuguese again, speaking of a country that is not real. Mr. Prime Minister can say whatever he wants, the Portuguese live in the real country, and they know - and not in the propaganda country of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u171	It is in this real country that there is a people who do not forget that you have fought, and will continue to fight, to defeat this government and right-wing policy and will punish those who have sunk the country in the last 38 years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u172	Also to put your questions, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u173	Madam President, Prime Minister, do you remember when you promised that child that you were not going to cut the holiday allowance to your parents? Oh, my God! What a fraud, Prime Minister! What a fraud! Do you still remember how you swore the end of negotiations and interests? Oh, my God! Now look at the report of the Court of Auditors on the privatisation of EDP and REN — conflicts of interests with consultants close to the State, total no caution with the public interest, a sale below the price, and Mr Prime Minister comes to tell us that whoever bought EDP until it did us a favor, for staying with a company that gives dividends 1200 million a year. What a fraud, Prime Minister! What a huge fraud he presented to us here today! You still remember, when you promised that BES wouldn't have any cost to taxpayers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u174	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u175	What a fraud, Prime Minister! We know that Dr. Marques Mendes has not yet come to announce the sale of the New Bank, but we also know more. We know that the value is below the money injected and we know — imagine! — that the Government has accepted to restructure the bank's debt for 20 years. The government, the creditor, agreed to restructure the bank's debt for 20 years! Have you seen the brutality of this evidence? Oh, my God! A government that requires the Greek people to pay the debt now, at any cost, the lives it costs, the blood it costs, gives a 20-year bill to the banks, for the loan it has made them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u177	What a fraud, Prime Minister! How will it now explain to the citizens who have been without unemployment benefit, without pay, because there was no financial envelope, which was, after all, money to save another bank and even does not hurt to blow up the targets of the deficit because of this? Oh, my God! What a fraud, Prime Minister! The promise of stability that brought us here today is not worth anything, because it is based on fraud! Mr. Prime Minister, you can't fool everyone all the time and your time is over. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u178	To put your questions, you have the floor of Mr José Junqueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u179	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Prime Minister, also in unemployment, is ill with the truth of the facts. Mr. Prime Minister is able to explain why he has withdrawn 160 000 temporary, 260 000 operational inactive and some 400 000 emigrants from statistics? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister thinks that in the districts we do not realize what is happening, but in my own, for example, unemployment has increased by 30 % — 62 % among young people — and 58 % have no support at all. And your government boasts of paying less unemployment benefits! Do you know why you're proud to pay less unemployment benefits? It is not because there is more employment, Prime Minister, that is why you and your government have abandoned people to their own fate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u180	Mrs. Members, before giving the floor to Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I would like to inform the Prime Minister that Mrs. Carla Cruz, who was registered, will ask her question in the next round. You have the floor to ask your questions, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u181	Mr President, Prime Minister, it seems to me that, after this first part of the debate on the state of the nation, the Socialist Party continues to assume that it is wrong. The Socialist Party considers that it was the troika that brought the crisis, but, indeed, Mr. Prime Minister, it was the crisis that brought the troika. The Socialist Party, Prime Minister, considers that it was the austerity that brought the crisis, but it was the crisis that brought austerity. And there is a question, Mr. Prime Minister, which stands in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would say, as an elephant in the middle of the room. Mr. Prime Minister, who brought the crisis to Portugal? And who gave the country back the credibility and who brought the confidence to the country and to the Portuguese? Now, the answer to the first question, Prime Minister, is the following: it was the Socialist Party, the Government of Eng. José Socrates and many of these and of these Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen sitting on the PS bench. The answer to the second question is the following: this government has freed the country from the troika, this government has returned the confidence and credibility of Portuguese and Portuguese, But, Prime Minister, the question I wanted to ask you is: which country is better prepared to combat poverty and social inequalities? A country that has a deficit of about 11 % or a country that estimates a deficit of less than 3 %? A country with a stagnant economy or a recession or a growing country, economically and sustainably? A country that has no money to pay wages and pensions or a country that is prepared to face and respond to the difficulties that arise? [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u182	Mr. Prime Minister, what country promotes inequality and poverty? First or second? What country gives hope to young Portuguese, Portuguese and Portuguese who find no solutions? [[PS and PCP protests.]] In conclusion, Madam President, I would say that I am shocked, even by the following: was the Socialist Party that, leaving the country in the pre-banking, without money to pay wages and pensions, with a deficit of 11 %, with a recession economy and the hands of institutional creditors, it was possible that poverty and inequality would not increase? Oh, my God! No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty and inequality are decreasing now, because we have put the country in order, and that is your great difficulty. [[PS protests.]] And you just assume...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u183	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u184	Madam President, I conclude by saying that Mr. Members of the Socialist Party only assume that the country is better when it suits them,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u185	... when the audience you have in front is quite different from the one we have here today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u186	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u187	Mr President, Prime Minister, your statement of successful strategy and prosperity is totally denied by the people's concrete life when, at the end of the month, the accounts fall to pay and the salary is not static to cope with expenses. And Mr. Prime Minister should be red in shame when he is Prime Minister in a country where one in 10 children is at a rate of severe material deprivation and where the only hot meal that makes more than 13,000 children is in school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u189	Mr. Prime Minister, you wagered on immigration to hide the effects of your policy. In addition, several government members have been tireless in inviting emigration. The Prime Minister himself told the thousands of hired teachers who said that, « wanting to continue as teachers, they can look at the entire Portuguese market and then find an alternative». First, the government fired; then it invited to emigrate! Even Mr. Secretary of State of Minister Relvas did not hesitate to say that young people should leave their comfort zone and go beyond our borders. Mr. Prime Minister, more than half a million Portuguese have left the country, among these thousands of young nurses, doctors, teachers, scientists, engineers, researchers; thousands of young people whose lack the country will feel dramatically in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u191	They left the country to escape unemployment, precariousness and poverty, they went out not by choice but by necessity, Prime Minister! They left because the government turned their backs and denied them the future in their own country. And to those left, the government also denied the future, pushed them into temporary employment contracts, for false green receipts, for internships, for unpaid internships, for training and employment-inclusion contracts, promoting free and unpaid work, without any prospect of stability. Mr. Prime Minister, young people do not forget that this government wanted to destroy their dreams. Young people do not forget that they have been subject to precariousness and emigration, and they will take responsibility for it. Young people know, want and have the right to be happy in their country. Young people will continue to struggle for their rights, for the defeat of this government and this policy, they will continue to fight against false illusions, against this policy they want to perpetuate, because they have the right to be happy in their country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u192	Mrs. Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u193	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you are still lying and the reality is lying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the first four years, entire families emigrated. There are communities in the Leiria district, whose schools lost 25% of their students. the immigrant family aggregates join qualified young people, for whom the government did not or was not able to promote public policies of integration into the economic fabric, and even asked them to leave their comfort zone and emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] by the hand of this government, unemployment, precariousness, the impossibility of careers and stable families led to almost double the permanent emigration of young people. Mr. Prime Minister impoverished the country! This is a government that abdicates knowledge, science and technology. This is a country that loses, daily, its best resources, people. This is, Mr. Prime Minister, the sad state in which he leaves the Nation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced, with the amendments to the registration to request clarification, this first block of request for clarification is concluded here. I now give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u195	Madam President, I shall try to be as brief as possible in the answers, saying, from now on, because this has been a constant of many questions, that I have no problem with interpretation of reality. And that is why, after debate, I have insisted here on the extent of the problems we still have to solve. No one has ever heard me say that there was no problem with the distribution of wealth, with unemployment, with the need to offer the youngest more concrete opportunities for progress, or even hide the effort we still have to make in order to maintain our risk assessment, when we look at citizens and investors, within values that they can competitively compare with other developed nations. On the contrary! But I have also said that the observation of reality must be made in the context of reality and it is the Members. Members who often say that we should not mention statistics as mere numbers, which is true, because we have to contextualize. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Would it have been possible for a country that arrived at the pre-bank, which had no financing on the market, which had no way to finance its economy, to go through this circumstance increasing employment, growing in its economy, offering better and more extensive social conditions to its people? If that were the case, something would be reversed. And that's the problem of opposition. [[PCP protests.]] Oppositions are pleased to make the description of the crisis, but they do not normally offer a proper reading to solve the problems that have led and expounded this crisis situation and usually oppose changes that would have to overcome the causes of the crisis and overcome the problems. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u196	And that is how most of the questions have been asked here. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said that we have retreated far into public school and adult education. I don't know where you're going, Mr. Member, because, in public school, we didn't just retreat... [[PS protests.]] Mr President, not only did we not retreat, as we have come to achieve better results. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u197	It is true that with more requirement than before, but the public school is strong and it is recommended, Mr President! And the same with the National Health Service! [[PS protests.]] Despite four years of attacks directed to the government, as if the National Health Service were on the verge of implosion, the truth is that it was recapitalized, the debts were paid; it was provided more and better service. And that, Mr President, was absent from your request for clarification, I don't know why. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Why did the analysis of the nation’s state fail to verify what was good? Also in scientific research, what was the budget executed by the Foundation for Science and Technology improved over the years from 2012 onwards. [[Protests and laughter from PS Members.]] It's improved! More money was spent on scientific research, and we were able not only to channel more support but also — imagine, Mr Deputy! — more research, more published articles, more Portuguese researchers to bring research scholarships to Portugal,... [[PS and PCP protests.]] ...as in last year and in previous years it had not been achieved. And that's what the ladies are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen didn't say! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] Therefore, Mr. Miguel Santos, which helped to remember about health may be important to illuminate other social areas, but Mr. Jorge Machado denounced the strong attack on the middle class, as opposed to my electoral promise. Mr. Jorge Machado, a middle class, in a country, is a shock absorber of the crises and the booster of the recovery. That's what's happened in these years...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u198	Where? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u199	...and that's what's happening now and for the future. The recovery of the middle class will be a reality, because that's what matches the data we're observing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u200	That's delusional!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u201	Yes, isn't it, sir? It's like export data! They're delirious! [[Yeah, it's...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u202	The gentlemen. Members have also come to say so many times, in the Chinese debates we have had here, that net exports have ended, that what we say is a mirage, is false, that there is no structural transformation of the Portuguese economy and that there is less capacity to import. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] But see, Mr President, year after year, we have exported more and more and we have managed to reconcile this with the recovery of domestic consumption, without any external deficit. [[PS protests.]] It's true! I would like to say to Mrs Catarina Martins that, when she looks at INE statistics, it is appropriate to see not only exports of goods but also services to be able to conclude, Mrs Catarina Martins, that our external balance has maintained the same profile in these years. Despite the trade deficit, which has worsened, it is true,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u203	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u204	... our liquid external position is superior. So, Mrs. Deputy, it's favorable, it's positive. See the honourable Member: is it not good to have an economy that is not being indebted? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. João Galamba, please sign up to intervene, do not miss the opportunity. Don't miss the chance! We are in the debate of the State of the Nation! Mr. Member, please sign up. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Mariana Mortágua would certainly be happier if the huge fraud she talks about could be true. But, honourable Member, it does not correspond to reality, there is no fraud! Was Banco Espírito Santo solved? Yes, Mrs. Member, no cost to taxpayers. [[Protests from PS Vieira da Silva.]] [[PS laughter.]] And yes, Mrs. Member, the New Bank will be sold. It is not the government that is conducting this operation, I have no particular indication as to the outcome of this operation, but I have no reason to assume that it may at this time question the interests of the stability of the financial system or even the loans that were made by the Treasury for the establishment of this Resolution Fund. I can tell the honourable Member that these are, first of all, loans; secondly, those that win interest and, thirdly, that there is no reason to go to public debt, insofar as they do not correspond to the State's responsibilities. No, Mrs. Member, they do not correspond to the responsibility of the State! Mr. José Junqueiro said that we took the discouraged ones and several other elements out of the statistics. I have not withdrawn anything from the statistics, Mr President, strictly nothing! The INE statistics are carried out with exactly the same criteria, with the same rules that are used in any other country of the European Union. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, we do not interfere with the statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u205	There's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u206	I do not know whether there are other practices from your experience that you think this government can have, but this government does not have them and respects the independence of statistical entities such as the National Institute of Statistics. No, I am not proud of paying less unemployment allowances, Mr. What I can say is that employment is increasing and, if employment is increasing, that must be positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u207	The latest INE data don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u208	Mr. João Galamba, do not forget my comment. There is no doubt that today we have the opportunity to see that there are many Portuguese people who have been unemployed and are receiving unemployment benefits and that they no longer have access to this benefit. at the time when the Socialist Party was a government, Mr. Member, did the Socialist Party keep social insurance benefits indefinitely? I ask the honourable Member why I do not have that memory, nor do I know that this exists in any country in the world. Therefore, Mr President, we cannot indefinitely maintain the payment of such benefits, but that does not mean that there are no other ways of worth to people and that they are well expressed in the social expenditure we have. And we have! Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares said it was the crisis that brought austerity and suffering. Fortunately, Mr President, today we can talk about other things. I know that the opposition — the oppositions, better saying, because they are very different from each other, although they have many points in common — the oppositions are always talking about the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u209	It's people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u210	We prefer to talk about the recovery of the economy and the reasons that the Portuguese have today to believe that they will live better in the future, contrary to what happened in the previous years. Mrs Rita Rato has decided to insist on my invitation to immigration. Madam Member, I have already responded to this question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u211	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u212	It's documented!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u213	It's not worth insisting. You will find no statement of mine to invite anyone to emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u214	What a waste! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u215	It's not worth it. It's not worth it, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Odete João, on the side of the Socialist Party, as, moreover, several other Members, understood in the debate of the State of the Nation to call the Prime Minister a liar.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u216	Well remembered! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u217	I know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they are very pleased to make a statement on this point. I have shown, throughout my life and also in these four years that I have been Prime Minister, an obvious concern that I never need to offend anyone to respond politically to whom I need to answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't do the same. No, Mrs Odete John, it is not true that we have abdicated from knowledge or technology. on the contrary, this is one of the most important springs of the recovery of our economy for the future. If we want to compete better in the global value chain, if we want to be more competitive, it will certainly not be with low value goods and services, it is certainly not making Portuguese less paid. It is contributing to the strengthening of knowledge, innovation and its development at the service of the real economy, because it will only allow us to grow more, that our companies can produce better and more quality and thus create more and better jobs, with more income for the country. But there is one thing, Mrs. Member, that we do not do and that is to realize that we are more productive, to realize that we are more competitive, to realize that we do not need to carry out important structural reforms, distributing money that we do not generate in our income so that the economy can grow artificially for the elections. We're not doing that, Mrs. Deputies! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u218	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a set of 12 questions is now followed. Deputies Renato Sampaio, from PS, Carla Cruz, from PCP, Eurídice Pereira, Vitalino Canas, Rui Paulo Figueiredo, Filipe Neto Brandão, Augustinho Santa, Idália Salvador Serra, Mota Andrade, Paulo Pisco, Jorge Fão and Nuno Sá, from PS. Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for a question. [[What about Mr. João Galamba?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u219	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, your Government has transformed the Port, and the North, labour capital, into capital of unemployment. It is the region most wooded with unemployment and not the government's handcuffs and tricks to spread statistics change reality. It is the example of social insensitivity. The National Veterinary Research Laboratory of Vairão, with sophisticated research equipment, is today a deposit of people who do not fulfill their mission: to investigate. This is an example of the abandonment of institutions. Urban rehabilitation, a fundamental instrument for job creation, due to the government's inability to draw up national regulations, is impossible for the European Union to use EUR 1.8 billion of Community funds that could leverage the economy with about 7 billion. This is an example of the inability of this government. There are three examples and one word: incompetence, incompetence of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u220	You have the floor for a question, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the rhetoric of your speech does not hide your government's evils from patients and the National Health Service during these four painful years. The Portuguese do not forget that the government has needed to be confronted with the death of a patient with hepatitis C to take some measures to remedy the situation. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u222	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u223	The Portuguese do not forget that the government wanted to save money in the medical emergency and therefore the VMER ambulances were inoperative and did not run into accidents in which people died. The Portuguese do not forget the chaos in emergency services and patients hospitalized for several days in corridors, some of them cancer patients, because the government has reduced the number of beds in hospitals. This Government is responsible for the brutal increase in health costs and moderate rates and for further difficulties in access to non-emergency transport of patients. This government pushed out of the National Health Service, and even to emigration, thousands of doctors and nurses, with its policy of social and professional devaluation. This PSD/CDS-PP government has deceived Portuguese with an electoral promise, which it failed to fulfill, to assign family physician to all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u224	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u225	The government is responsible for the postponement of cancer surgeries and for the failure to carry out tests that could save lives. It is responsible for the rationalization of drug dispensation to chronic patients. He is responsible for the lack of clinical material that led to the replacement of diapers in a hospital with towels surrounded by garbage bags. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The Portuguese do not forget that, like previous governments, this PSD/CDS-PP government wanted to save, at the cost of Portuguese health, with the policy of cutting and disinvestment in the National Health Service. Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese will not forgive you the responsibilities they have on the problems they feel today in access to health care. As much as you want to hide the consequences of your policy, as much as you want to hide the situation in the country and the plans you have to pursue the same policy, you and your government must be responsible for what they have done to the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u226	For a question, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u227	Madam President, Prime Minister, the biggest tax burden in our country was in your government : 37% of GDP. in its governance, the income available per adult fell on average more than 5 %. by the hand of its government, from the school year 2011 / 2012 for the following school year, 12 % of higher education students ceased to exist. These are well known numbers of a young man named Catarina, who lives in the municipality of Moita. from her and her family, which her government has strangled financially, leading Catarina to have to abandon her degree in civil engineering. Next, Catarina sought work to help her. He sought a decent job and didn't find it. Today, you are doing an intensive course, for free, German here in Portugal, because Germany has waved it with a €800 bag that adds ceiling and food. I have to ask you, Prime Minister, what you have told Mrs Merkel to ask her to lower the minimum wage in Portugal and then her country, Germany, to seduce our young people and offer them more than that value. What « Portugal ahead » is this, Mr Prime Minister, which leaves the country on the edge of a bankruptcy? [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] Social bankruptcy! They swapped a few peacocks, a financial deficit, for a social deficit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're on the verge of social bankruptcy. This is the truth! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And the Catarina do Vale da Amoreira can even succeed in Germany, but Portugal will no longer be able to recover the « Catarinas» that leave here, as long as you remain in the government. Our mission, the mission of the Democrats, is to get them out of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u228	I now give the floor to Mr Vitalino Canas for a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u229	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is in the national interest that Europe reaches agreement with Greece. We all realize that this illusory preparation of the country to withstand new crises, which you are talking about, does not exist. If Greece falls, Portugal will suffer a lot. Its obligation and that of its Government, to safeguard the national interest, was to be in the front line to obtain an agreement with Greece that stabilizes the euro area and the euro. But contrary to what you have just said, what you know about this outside Europe is that you and your government have been one of the main obstacles to an agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u230	It's not António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u231	So, of two, or you have a speech here and you have another speech in Europe — and that is serious — or Europe has not understood you and your government — and that is twice as serious. Portugal needs a government to say the same here and in Europe. Portugal needs a government that is understood and respected in Europe, but for this we need to change government, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u232	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo now has the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u233	Mr President, Prime Minister, the degradation of the income of the Portuguese and the services provided to them is your brand. Transport is an example. I could give many indicators, but I mean only two. at the level of road transport, the number of passengers fell 22 % and was reduced by 25 % in the Lisbon metropolitan area. But in particular, the Portuguese life is of little interest to him. His Government followed a pattern of violation of procedures and conflict with the authorities. In addition to dubious situations in the courts, the promiscuities are added, the illegitimate benefits, the legal engineering, the privatizations and concessions marked by opacity are added.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u234	There's no decoration!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u235	I want to talk to you about the illegality of the self-denominated Transportation of Lisbon. It appeared as a brand, it has set up an illegal operational merger, without legislative framework, with illegal practices in the provision of revenue and in all matters concerning workers. All this done by Rui Loureiro, who says to those who want to hear it, including for the workers, who have the protection of Mr. Prime Minister and Dr. Rogério Gomes, leader of the famous Institute of the Territory. This is your legacy, Prime Minister: a huge lack of promiscuity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS applause.]] [[You're right! Tell me who you know! It's many years of experience! All right!]] [[You're right! Tell me who you know! It's many years of experience! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u236	I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, also to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u237	Mr President, Prime Minister, when on the night of 1 September 2014 the Government went to the televisions to say that, except for two districts, Citius was working, all the judicial operators already knew that the computer system of the courts had collapsed and that the government version was not passing away from a falsity, which would, in fact, be converted into a pattern of behavior. But if Citius, with serious consequences, purely and simply collapsed for several months, the truth is that, as the Supreme Council of the Magistracy now denounces, statistical data essential to the monitoring of the system are still not available today. The responsibility lies with the government, which has failed and continues to fail. However, the government was quick to close courts inside. Even in Aveiro he closed the inner court of the district, the one of Sever do Vouga. Mr. Prime Minister, his legacy in the field of justice is that of permanent conflict, that of institutional discredit, starting with the Ministry of Justice itself, and that of a more unequal and asymmetric country in access to justice. Can the Prime Minister deny the evidence and take pride in his legacy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u238	I now give the floor to Mr Agostinho Santa of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u239	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you continue to deny reality. See: in Cabril, Montalegre, four people leave taxi to Vila Real, well over 100 kilometers and two hours away. They're going to court, which works in a container, for a trial hearing. In Mesão Frio, an agricultural entrepreneur rises to go to the Court of Keys, 100 kilometers away for an execution procedure. when passing through Régua, it will give a ride to a couple who go to the Family Court and Minors of Vila Real. Mr Prime Minister, these are cases of the Vila Real district, where his Government has closed 41, 6 % of the courts and where he has removed the remaining large part of the competences. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u240	This could happen in any place in the country where the judicial map of your government closed and disqualified courts, making, of course, nearly 400 000 people lost court in their councils and saw justice run away from them. Mr. Prime Minister, do you not recognize that this is a sad example of the state in which the Nation leaves? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u241	I now give the floor to Mrs Idália Salvador Serran from the PS. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u242	Madam President, Prime Minister, the country you are talking about is not the country that the Portuguese feel every day on the skin. For four years you have cut health, removed the Portuguese from the National Health Service. But today I want to talk to you about the district of Santarém and do it because the questions we asked during the legislature were either not answered or then the answer did not correspond to the truth. There are no decent conditions in the operating block of Santarém hospital, neither for professionals nor for patients. Two years ago, the Ministry of Health said the works would be started. For not even the projects have been made! Why are they keeping this situation? A patient who enters an emergency in one of the hospitals of the Middle Tejo Hospital Center and who is transferred to another hospital when he is discharged has no transportation to return home. The hospital doesn't take care of transportation for hours and there's no public transport. The alternative is to call a square car. Having to pay around 80 € for transport, how does a retired, with the minimum pension, manage to return home? And all this in the name of saving and raising public debt. Even this you have failed! Mr. Prime Minister, who acts deliberately and with so much inhumanity does not deserve confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u243	I now give the floor to Mr Mota Andrade of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u244	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government wanted to remove the INEM helicopter from Macedo de Cavalieros, which serves all the Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro and which is the most required helium for medical emergencies. He failed to do so because all the autarchs of the region presented a precautionary provision that was accepted by the courts. The Minister of Health then stated, after that decision, that the helium was in Macedo de Cavaliers. The INEM appealed to the court's decision. What are we staying on? Or there is hypocrisy on the part of the government, which in the courts wants something and affirms its opposite in public, or then the government no longer exists, each institution does what it wants and the INEM, which has been the subject of several scandals in recent times, no longer responds to anyone. What do you say, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u245	I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Pisco, also from the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u246	Mr President, Prime Minister, you and your government are responsible for reducing the policy for the Portuguese communities. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u247	And one of the most brutally achieved domains is the teaching of Portuguese abroad, fundamental to the valorization and expansion of the Portuguese language. Here, too, your government has struck records of destruction: today there are fewer than 11 000 students, fewer than 700 hours and less than 170 teachers. Parents started paying for the courses and today have a worse education and many teachers are at the threshold of poverty. Is this the success of your policies? A real disaster, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u248	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Fão from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u249	Mr. President, Prime Minister, is worrying about the situation in various areas of the National Health Service : lack of doctors in the country, less consultations in primary health care, insufficient number of nurses, lack of beds in hospitals and place in the national care network. of more than 110 000 people dependent on care, about 50 000 are confined. in the national network there are only 14 000 places, less than 30 % of the care needs. There are ready and equipped units at various points of the country, hundreds of medium and long convalescence beds and palliative care that can be used. Among many, I give the example of Melgaço, in Viana do Castelo, whose unit has been ready since December 2012, with EUR 1500 million of investments, and still today remains closed, without any prospect of start-up operation. Also in this area your Government has failed, Prime Minister. What do you have to say to the Portuguese on this matter? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u250	I now give the floor to Mr Nuno Sá, also to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u251	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, due to the policies of blind, wrong and even inhumane cuts, nurses from the health centre of the Town Hall of Vila Verde must walk 15 km — 15 km! — in order to be able to provide basic primary health care to their patients, because the Government has taken away the minimum necessary means to be able to provide health care to patients who can only be treated at home. That's right, Prime Minister! This is happening! The responsibility of this total degradation of primary health care is Mr. Prime Minister and the PSD/CDS-PP coalition policies. Is Mr. Prime Minister laughing? The nurses in Vila Verde, who have to walk 3 hours on foot to provide health care to the patients, what do you find Mr. Prime Minister is your smile? Oh, my God! It's an insult to what I'm telling you, Prime Minister. At home you are seeing us and this is true, Mr. Prime Minister. Health care that could reach the patients in 10 minutes, today, with this government, takes 3 hours! Do you think it is acceptable for nurses to be forced to walk 15 km on foot, 3 hours walking, to treat patients, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u252	I now give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the generosity of the questions you asked me. In view of the lack of time available to me — I would like you to see me. Members would not be offended by this, I will answer only three or four questions, since many of them were transversal and others were subjects which, during these four years, certainly had the opportunity and opportunity to discuss with all the members of the government, in the committees and in the plenary. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u254	however, there are a few things I want to say. First of all, this has been the most competent government with regard to Community funds. It's true. contrary to what has often been suggested, we were the first to close the partnership agreement with the European Union, we were the first to see their approved operational programmes and, yes, we are the first to implement funds, unlike what happened in the Community Support Framework we inherited. [[PS protests.]] Secondly, unlike the ladies and gentlemen. Members say, health care has improved in Portugal, health indicators have improved in Portugal,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... the service that has been carried out today offers more quality assurances than in previous years. in justice, we have done the greatest reforms of justice since 25 April and, yes, I am proud of the reform of justice that we have done. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u255	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of urban transport, it is true that we have ended with the operational losses of these companies, we have almost ended with transfers from the state, the taxpayers' purse, to maintain the losses of these companies and I sincerely hope so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, that the false strikes, political strikes,... [[PCP protests.]] ... that have infernated the life of many Portuguese, in Lisbon and Porto, can end when the sub-concession processes are completed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, allow me just to conclude by saying that I have had a great deal of honor in being Prime Minister of Portugal in this legislature and that it has always been with the notion of responsibility, without ever shaking it for anyone, who has responded to the ladies and gentlemen. Members in these four years. in my last speech in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u256	I said good, last one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u257	... despite everything that has happened and which has often surpassed much of what we would like to see in an urban, democratic and mature debate, I welcome all of you. Members for the possibility that we had here to confront our ideas, our projects and subject the Government to Parliament's supervision. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]] [[Answer me! Answer the questions!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u258	We will continue the debate with the speeches, for which we already have some Members. Member States. The first is Mr Marcos Perestrello, from the PS, to whom I give the floor. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, this last statement clearly demonstrates that you are in the debate of the State of the Nation but not in the state of the Nation, is in a state of denial regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, Portugal has seen the birth rate fall violently in the last four years, our country of the European Union with more single children and the highest rate of emigration. If this is not a breach of trust in the government, I don't know what it would be if the Portuguese were to distrust the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This afternoon's debate confirms the take-off between government and reality, because a nation is its people and if the Portuguese people are not well, the nation's state cannot be good. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The standard of living of Portuguese has fallen to the values of the 1990s, with 25 % below the European average. Unemployment has increased sharply, especially long-term unemployment and the unemployment of young people. One in five Portuguese is in a precarious situation; 25 % of Portuguese families have difficulty in coping with their current expenses and 40 % of families have no resources to cope with unforeseen expenditure. The tax burden on families is the greatest ever, increasing 25 % over the past four years. And it is here, Mr Prime Minister, that you speak of budgetary consolidation! The budgetary consolidation of which you speak has been made at the expense of the extortion of Portuguese resources, the greatest ever increase in the tax burden, which has led your Minister of Finance to recognize the inability to solve the country's problems and to be the first to escape the ship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] National companies are the European farms paying more taxes and contributions and both public investment, whether or not private, have also fallen violently. The quality of public services has decreased and the difficulty of accessing these services has increased. Despite all this, public debt is the biggest ever, and in recent days we have even learned that, after all, the 2014 deficit could reach 6 % due to the New Bank situation, which the Government has sworn would not bring costs to the public record. Madam President, with this government everything that is good has come down and everything that is bad has gone up. The Government and the majority can look for the justification they want for their failure, but it will always be that way, the justification for a failure. To say that Portugal is on the right path is to confuse reality and fiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To say that Portugal is on the right path is to confuse reality with lies. Lies, the original sin that led them to promise not to increase taxes, not to cut wages or pensions, to cut holiday and Christmas allowances. « That is nonsense» – Prime Minister said on 1 April 2011. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u260	Mr. Prime Minister, this is the last debate of the state of this government and the balance sheet is negative for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u261	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u262	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to debate the state of the nation in July 2015, at the end of the fourth and last legislative session of this legislature, is to answer a simple question: how is Portugal today and how would it be if the opposition and the Socialist Party had ruled the country since 2011?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u263	Better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u264	We see six levels of intervention and so many other conclusions. First of all, at the level of political and governmental stability, the PSD and the CDS signed a political agreement following the 2011 election results. They had their differences; they had to execute the Memorandum negotiated by the Socialist Party; they had to live with times of uncertainty at European level; they had to overcome the legitimate but questionable decisions of the Constitutional Court; they had to renew and transform Portugal with the implementation of structural reforms long overdue; they had to deal with various and natural resistance to change; and they had to respect and understand the reaction of citizens to difficult, unwanted and unpopular measures. The parties that support the government had to face and overcome all of this and they knew how to converge, reconcile and decide, always putting the interests of the State ahead of the interest of the Portuguese. in this Parliament, moreover, it has always based on the free will of 132 Members to the solidity, cohesion and sense of commitment of the coalition. The political stability that we offer to the country was crucial for us to get out of the rescue, to overcome the economic recession and to regain the confidence and reliability of Portugal. Today, therefore, we must ask ourselves: what if the country had plunged into political instability in these years? What if we had an early elections in Portugal, as the opposition has claimed since the first day and the Socialist Party has always wanted until the last day? What if it had been the PS winning the 2011 legislative elections, would it have ensured this stability? With the parliamentary support of whom? Do PCP? Left Block? Any other coalition in Portugal could — or might in the future, be said to pass — guarantee the stability that the country needed to get out of the rescue? So we made the first conclusion: with the PSD and the CDS the Nation had stability; with the opposition and the PS the Nation would have had instability. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] at the level of the financial situation, the PSD/CDS coalition has met the budgetary targets agreed with our partners; it has obtained 12 positive evaluations of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme; it has left the programme without resorting to more bailouts or cautious conditions; it has returned to markets, where it is currently funded at the lowest interest rates ever; the country amortizes in advance the most expensive loans, precisely to save several hundred million euros in interest; we have accumulated reserves to deal with any turbulence situations; the deficit will be the lowest in 2015 since 25 April; the state returns returns returns to its employees and pensioners. Again, it is worth asking: what if it had been the opposition and the Socialist Party to rule over these years? What would be the cost of asking for more time and more money? How many austerity measures would be necessary to finance the deficit and public investment? And who paid, and when, the cost of financing and indebtedness of this strategy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u265	He's turning into a Zandinga!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u266	Second conclusion: with the PSD / CDS coalition, the Nation has less deficit, has more financial health, is removing austerity and has dispensed from the troika. With a socialist government, the troika would still be here, austerity packages would come every quarter or six months and invoices would continue to accumulate to be paid for by whom they would come next. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] at the level of the economy, with the Government of this majority Portugal resumed economic growth; it reached levels of confidence, consumers and very positive investors; it achieved a steady and consistent increase in exports; it undertook a rigorous and transparent privatisation programme; it restructured the business sector of the central and local state; it started a policy of tax breakdown to attract investment; it reduced the payment of late debts of the public sector and adopted a law of commitments, injecting, on the two ways, more liquidity in the economy; it undertook a reform in the justice friend of the economy. And again the country must question: what if it had been the opposition and the PS ruling? It would have been inflated the economy with artificial incomes, would have - have accumulated late payments, would have stopped - if the reform of the IRC, bet-on-CL - would - if it were in megalomanic public investment, would get - more liquidity in the credit economy - and with unbalanced public accounts it would inevitably be more expensive - and, of course, deny-in-cl - if the privatisation plan negotiated and previously supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u267	It's a Zandinga!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u268	Third conclusion: with the PSD/CDS coalition, the recessive spiral is avoided and wealth is created on the basis of the competitiveness of the economy and its intrinsic results. With a socialist government, the economy dynamizes itself with illusory income, with public spending and indebtedness and with more state in business, a way to achieve, yes, a long and painful spiral of future recession and austerity. at the level of structural reforms, with the PSD Government / CDS, important reforms were initiated in the state and public systems; in justice or national defence; in health or education; in decentralization and administrative modernization; in labour laws; in combating fraud and tax evasion; in the procedures for appointment and in the number of public administration leaders;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u269	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u270	... in the energy sector; in industrial and environmental licensing; in the lease market; in the central and local business sector; in the transport and port sector; in the financial sector; in the economic diplomacy; in the proximity services; in the supervision of the allocation of social benefits and in the control of public expenditure. There are two features common to all these reforms. One is that they were all postponed for years — many were, moreover, often announced, some of which in this pulpit by the former Prime Minister. Another common trait is that all of them — all of them! — they have always rejected the opposition and the Socialist Party. Fourth conclusion: with the PSD / CDS coalition the Country changes, the Country changes, the Country becomes, the Country renews. With the opposition and the Socialist Party, everything is adjourned, hesitates and gives up the first difficulty. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] at employment level, with the PSD government / CDS, with political stability, with balanced public finances, with a competitive and innovative economy and with consistent and dynamic structural reforms all results in increased employment opportunities and a consistent fall in unemployment rate. With socialist policies there is instability, disorder in public accounts, structural delays and indebtedness, i.e. the assumptions for work precariousness and structural unemployment. Fifth conclusion: with the PSD/CDS coalition we have been down for more than two years, gradually but consistently, the unemployment rate and creating stable jobs. With socialist policies we have been worsening unemployment for six years, even in times of less economic and financial difficulties. at the level of social status and solidarity, with the PSD/CDS government we saved public systems, ensuring the universality of their access, extending, for example, the exemptions of moderate health rates, lowering the price of medicines, reducing the rate of early school dropout, implementing social rates in public transport, electricity or gas. We have implemented a social emergency programme for which more than EUR 1000 million has been allocated in four years, and we have followed the criteria of equity and solidarity in all the sacrifices we ask for from the Portuguese people. Sixth conclusion: the PSD/CDS coalition ensures the sustainability of public services and social justice in concrete actions and not, as the Socialist Party does and the opposition, which proclaim, in political rhetoric, social sensitivity, but create the imbalances that generate injustice and impoverishment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u271	This isn't an antenna time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u272	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have no doubt that many will be tempted to say that I am talking only about the past. They're wrong. It is true that the country has already experimented with these two models and the dichotomy of these six conclusions. But what I have told you not only translates what brought the nation here, as it clearly identifies the two paths that the nation can go through in the future. To answer the question of how we are today, with four years of governance of this majority, and how we would be with a socialist government, is, in fact, also to answer the question of how we want to be from here to another quadriennial. We, in the PSD, face the future with great confidence: confidence in Portuguese capacity; confidence in Portuguese choices; confidence in the credibility we have gained in Europe and in the world; confidence in the continuation of State reform, the sustainability of public systems; confidence in the deepening of decentralization processes, whether for the autonomous regions or for local authorities and multi-municipal entities; confidence in the social sector and the strength of their institutions; confidence in the competitiveness of our economy, in the capacity of our entrepreneurs and our workers; confidence in the return of investment in innovation, research and science; confidence in key sectors such as new technologies or tourism, the sea or creative industries; confidence in the use of our diplomatic network spread across the world, and of which the 5 million Portuguese people live abroad; confidence in the potentials of the Lusophony network, which puts us and integrates us into all the relevant areas of the world; confidence in the use of our diplomatic network spread across the world, and finally, in the European monet project, and solidarity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u273	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese nation has been renewed in recent years and has been preparing for a path of progress, based on sound economic growth, employment generator and ensuring the financial health of the State and the safeguarding of social policies. However, we have many challenges to overcome, such as the pursuit of policies that have removed barriers to birth and that have reversed the demographic trend of recent decades; for example, to offer young Portuguese people opportunities to put into practice the qualifications they have obtained; for example, to guarantee all pensioners security in income they hope to have when they leave active life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is focused on the future that we present ourselves to the lifted-face Portuguese, with the serenity of those who did what had to be done, with confidence in the ability of the Portuguese people, with the conviction that we are an honest nation and a working and enterprising people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u274	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u275	... with the ambition that, in Portugal, each baby born, regardless of the social environment and the place where he was born, will have an opportunity to build a happy personal and professional life project.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u277	For PSD Members, for the 108 PSD Members, I give a final word. One day, a friend and supporter of Churchill will have told him: "There is no more difficult position than being on the bench supporting a government. It is very difficult to find a medium-term between independence and loyalty. The most important thing is to impress the House with our seriousness." It was with this seriousness, with independence and loyalty, with conviction that we were here these four years, and we can say that we were very proud of that. [[PSD (standing) and CDS-PP (with members standing).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u278	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u279	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Members: This is the last debate of the state of this legislature. That is why, more than a comparison, as we have always done year after year with the previous year's debate, it makes sense today to make an assessment, a balance sheet than this legislature and at what point we are on the basis of that which was our starting point—of the last 24 hours, now—of which it was one of the most demanding, most difficult and complex legislatures of Portuguese democracy, the most difficult even, from the circumstances in which we started it, that is, in the pre-banking state. And the first responsibility of a government, whatever it was, in the face of such an urgent and serious situation as the one we found, was to urgently seek to regain the country's credibility, so that Portugal would be respected again; to guarantee access to credit, so as to be able to refinance our economy; and to protect the Portuguese's income and prevent us from reaching dramatic situations, as they would be; and, Mrs President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been very close — the non-payment of pensions and salaries, the breakdown of funding and the consequent closure of banks, the lack of access to deposits and savings of each Portuguese. That is exactly what this government has managed to avoid. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Today, we can say that if we failed to avoid the sacrifices that the Portuguese had to pass, such was the gravity of the situation, it was still possible to avoid ruptures and protect Portugal and the Portuguese from the worst scenarios.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u280	Go to people's reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u281	We have achieved it together, as a people and as a nation, and that is why we can look to the future with more confidence today. Today, it is legitimate to ask, for four years now, whether, precisely as a people and as a nation, collectively, we are or not better than four years ago. It is the famous Reagan question — I say "Reagan" by Ronald Reagan, 40. the President of the United States of America and 33. the Governor of California. Are we better than four years ago or not? The gentlemen. Members of the opposition say no, but the answer is: yes! Four years ago, Portugal was unable to finance itself, the interest rates had gone off and were, in all time, more than 11 %. Today, we have interest rates of 2 % to 3 % and in some cases are even negative. So the answer is: yes, we are better than four years ago! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Four years ago, the deficit had fired and was more than 11 %. Today, we know that the 2015 deficit will be below 3%. Yeah, we're better than we were four years ago! Four years ago, credibility was zero, nobody lent a toast to Portugal. Today, Portugal is an example throughout Europe and around the world. Yeah, we're better than four years ago! Four years ago, the economy had entered the recession: - 2 %. Today, the economy has increased again and what we are discussing is whether this growth will be 1, 6 % or more than 2 %. Yeah, we're better than we were four years ago! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Four years ago, companies were running and closing. When the PS called the troika, we had failures growing. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Today, there are more companies to open than to close, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Tourism and exports beat records of all time. Yeah, we're better than four years ago! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Even unemployment, which has reached 18 %, is today at 13 %. There too, we're better. In short, in a legislature, we fulfilled the assistance plan, the troika left Portugal, controlled the deficit and invested a recession cycle to open a new cycle of growth. And we protect the most disadvantaged. It is indisputable, only those who do not want to see will not recognize that, yes, we are better today than four years ago. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] On the other hand, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also make a little history and reflect on the circumstances in which we have made this journey. The truth is that we went this way with the Portuguese, but we did it without the minimum of support or even understanding on the part of the main opposition party. in fact, the Socialist Party has not only never assumed its responsibilities as it did all the contravapor it could to create more problems. And even this debate has not been an exception. Mr. Prime Minister spoke in 10 plagues. I would add to these 10 plagues — the PS now is, in fact, biblical and speaks of seven capital sins — seven colossal errors of the Socialist Party. It was the PS who, because of excess spending, led the country to the pre-bankrote; It was the PS who called the troika to Portugal, negotiated and signed the Memorandum of Understanding, which then refused; [[PS protests.]] It was the PS, who, knowing their responsibilities in the created problems, never helped us overcome them; [[PS protests.]] It was the PS that spent all the time making wrong predictions, which seemed the most agonistic—it was the non-compliance, it was the recessive spiral, it was the need of the cautious program, etc. (and now they have discovered another one, that when Greece falls, we also fall) —, permanent agoures; It was the PS that always defended the need to negotiate more time and more money, that is, on the basis of the PS, the troika would still be in Portugal ; Not content with all this, the PS has flocked to the victory of Syriza, which was said to be the great change in Europe. Carlos César even said that the PS proposals were equal to those of the Greeks; [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Finally, now that Portugal has finished the programme and it is stable, they want to tie us to the situation of Greece, pulling us down for a strictly ideological reason. That's right, ladies. Members, that some of these sins will, however, be venial, but are fatal sins for the credibility of the Socialist Party, fatal for a party that has never been able to amend its own mistakes. The PS has now discovered the sins of the majority. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: 'I have no confidence in the false prophets'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u282	He's screwing up the rug!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u283	"I have put my trust in the false prophets!" — Matthew, chapter 7, verse 15. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is that if we follow these false prophets, supposed saviors or new gurus, what will happen is that we will go back, lose the efforts of the Portuguese and eventually get worse than we were at the beginning. If we had followed the PS, today we would be in a situation equal to that of Greece, or even worse. in fact, over these years, we have never heard the opposition—and this is for the whole opposition, since they are so interested—to present anything that is not the old revenue of more and more public expenditure. in this debate, the PS demonstrated that it has a blanket of localisms, which does not have a leadership. And here it became very clear that there is only one leadership to govern and continue to govern Portugal, which is the leadership of this majority and that it is Pedro Passos Coelho. It was very clear, with your localisms, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We know this, as we also know that, along this journey, the most radical sectors have done everything, through the challenge — the protest on the street, the strikes — so that we cannot achieve our objectives. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many references to democracy. Today, their mouths are full of democracy. They are wonderful with democracy in Greece. The truth is, curiously, they have never had the same respect for democracy, nor have they ever moved in Portugal. A few months after this majority won the elections by free and democratic choice of Portuguese, they were already demanding the overthrow of the government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Although the mandate had begun, they already wanted to override the legitimacy of the street to the democratic legitimacy of the Portuguese vote. What a strange notion of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not accept lessons in democracy. If there is something in which we are radicals—and it is the only thing in which we are radicals—it is that of being radically democrats. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We believe in Europe as it was thought by its founding fathers, a project of solidarity, but also of responsibility. Europe that was a construction of the great thinkers of Christian democracy and social democracy. Europe has never been a construction of communists, even libertarians, anarchists or exacerbated nationalists. Another word that is very fashionable — and I will now finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — it is the word « courage ». It's a lot of courage. They are also fascinated by courage and courage. They reach the point of classifying cowardly everything that is thinking in a way different from what they think. Nothing more wrong, nothing more unacceptable. If there's any courage we know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is any value we have tested, it was the value of courage. We know the government and we know the majority, we know what courage is. The courage to meet and face difficulties; the courage to persist, rather than give up; the courage to honour our commitments as a nation that others have compromised. Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our sacrifice today for our children to have a better future. It's from that courage that we were formed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not to be rebellious when the situation and the times that required us was our responsibility, our responsibility to protect ours. That's what we did in the government, that's what we did in this majority. It was that courage we needed and it was that courage that did not fail us over these four years. Mr Prime Minister, in one of the first debates I made here, I told you at the time that what we asked the government was determination and that what we had to offer was loyalty. Today, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that the Ex.A., and to the government that is leading, has not lacked that determination, nor has that courage. But I also want to stress that we all, Members of the PSD and the CDS, have never failed our loyalty and are all very proud of it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u284	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u285	We have reached the end of the Legislature better than we were four years ago and that is why we can ask for confidence to continue, trust to meet our objectives, ensure stability, keep the economy growing by achieving a stable growth of 2 or 3 % in the coming years, confidence to keep the deficit under control and Portugal within European rules, confidence to continue the sustained decision of unemployment, confidence to ensure stability rather than instability. The choice, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's between walking forward or going back. We know our way and that path is Portugal. Long live Portugal! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u286	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u287	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hold this debate on the state of the nation when the end of a legislature determined by the options of the attack pact formed by the right-wing policy of the PS, the PSD and the CDS and by the arrangements and agreements that promoted each other with the foreign troika. The state of the nation we are debating today is the state of decline, backwardness, dependence, impoverishment in which the country is and this government of the PSD and the CDS leaves it. The state of a country looted in its heritage and its peoples; the state of a country with 1, 2 million unemployed and almost a third of its workers in precariousness. The water brand and demonstration of the failure of this government is one country that has seen to start in the last five years some 500 000 Portuguese for emigration; a country that has not come out of an economic marasmo situation, which has seen in the last five years shrink GDP 6, 6 % in real terms; a country with an unsustainable debt and a suffocating debt service that is close to EUR 9000 million; a state in a country where there is a deep fiscal injustice aggravated by the increase in labour income taxes. The state of the nation is the deplorable state in which this government leaves the country with more than 2, 7 million people living below the poverty threshold. « Poverty stock market », Mr. Prime Minister. No, Mr. Prime Minister. It's a stain you should be ashamed of. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The State of the Nation is the state of the social and civilizational backwardness of negation of the social rights of Portuguese people, including health, education, social security and culture. The state of a country where the domain of economic power over political power remains and develops the lines of promiscuity between public and private offices, new cases of corruption, economic and financial fraud. No, the country is not better, nor the sacrifices were worth it, as the government claims. Only a government that has the perception of defeat on the horizon is that it may want to sell this illusion by speaking in full boxes, when it knows that they are safes full of debts; only because they feel that the Portuguese people will not forgive so much evil is that they repeat and repeat that we are not Greece trying to conceal the gravity of the problems left to the country and justify the policy of sacrifices which they imposed as subject, as before, to speculation on the markets when they so decide. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It will not be with the same policy that led us to the crisis that will solve the problems of the country. Portugal is not condemned, the country has its way out and its future, there is an alternative. There is another patriotic and left-wing policy capable of ensuring the development of the country and raising the living conditions of the workers and the people. A policy that is broken with the revenues and paths that have sunk the country, a policy not only indispensable and unattainable as possible and feasible. Realizable with the strength and struggle of Portuguese workers and people, with the inclusion as a decisive and strategic factor economic growth, with the determined and firm affirmation of the country's right to a sovereign development based on the rupture with the policies and guidelines of the European Union, economic and monetary union, the euro and its constraints, the budgetary treaty and economic governance. Realizable by mobilising resources that the renegotiation of debt allows to free up with the reduction of its amounts and interest. Realizable with the use of a fiscal policy that we propose due tax on dividends, financial speculation, real estate, big fortunes. Realizable with the recovery of large amounts buried today in PPP business and swap contracts. A policy that has in the development of national production the engine of economic dynamisation, job creation, full use of natural resources and the response to the dynamisation of the internal market and the increase in exports of greater value added. A policy of affirming the role of the State in the economy with the reversal of privatisations and the recovery to the public sector of the basic and strategic sectors within a mixed economy with strong support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. A policy which assumes the value of work and workers as an essential axis of an alternative policy and which assumes without wheels the objective of valuing wages and their rights. A policy aimed at the well-being and quality of life of all. Of course, by guaranteeing the right to health, an inseparable objective of strengthening the National Health Service, and by defending and valuing the social security system — public, solidarity and universal — raising the social protection of workers, ensuring the right to reform and a decent pension. A policy that assumes this greater objective in education of the comprehensive training of children and young people as affirmation of public school, free of charge, quality and inclusive, where everyone is guaranteed the right to knowledge and equal opportunities. A policy that guarantees the cultural functions of the State and assumes scientific and technical knowledge as a direct productive force, indispensable to sustained economic development. A policy that guarantees the rights of citizens, access to justice, which resolutely combats corruption, ensures the tranquillity and security of citizens, affirms a national defence policy focused on constitutional principles. A patriotic and left-wing policy that assumes the affirmation of a free and sovereign Portugal in a world and in a Europe of peace and cooperation between equal states in rights. An alternative policy that responds with concrete measures to urgent problems that, in particular, respond to effective protection for the unemployed with the extension of the criteria for access and extension of the period of allocation of unemployment benefit; promote the increase of the national minimum wage to 600 € at the beginning of 2016 and the end of the wage cuts and the full replacement of salaries, allowances and pensions withdrawn from the Public Administration; the replacement of justice and equity in the criteria for calculation and updating reforms, improvement of pensions and reforms and the safeguarding of the right to reform at the age of 65; the immediate repeal of the moderate rates in health services and providing a family doctor to all Portuguese in a period not exceeding two years. Immediate concrete measures to support the productive sectors with a specific status for family farming and the maintenance of milk quota systems; the guarantee of all fuels at a bonus cost for all segments of the fishing fleet; the establishment of a maximum price scheme in fuel and electricity and the reversal of the VAT rate to 6 % in electricity and natural gas; the elimination of the special payment on behalf of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; and the reduction of the VAT rate in restoration to 13 %. An alternative policy that requires a government to implement it. A government able to break with the vicious cycle that settled in the country of alternance without an alternative. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr as and Mrs Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Members: With a contradictory feeling of concern and hope, the CFP reaffirms its confidence in the Portuguese people as the main actor in history and worker of its own collective becoming! You may deceive him five, fifty or hundred times, but you will not be able to cheat forever. It is in this people that we trust and it is in their strength that we appeal to build their own future! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. President. — For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u288	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the last debate on the state of this country. It is therefore a moment of reflection about the country we have, but also about the country we want. It is no longer the time to speak of the legacy of the previous government, it is not even the means of the legislature in which promises are still worth what it will be. It's the end. It is time to settle accounts between what the government intends to do and what it has done, until the measure of the false promises of four years is the exact measure of the false assurances that we are being given today. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And it is not even necessary to go back to the 2011 election campaign. Just remember the Government Program that the majority PSD/CDS approved here and that never spoke in cuts of wages or pensions. He therefore prayed for the Government's Programme: "The Programme is based on five fundamental pillars" and describes that to which it is intended to be done. On the challenge of change, I stress 'value' and'support' public servants. We have learned in these four years that to value and support is to cut wages, disqualify services and send people to the unemployment waiting list, which is given by the name of mobility. The other bet, "administration efficiency", was famous, since the placement of teachers, delaying one month the beginning of the school year, to the chaos in the courts, which remains, with all the problems of Citius. On public finances, the Government Programme said : « Economic and financial policy » should « reduce national debt ». See that public debt rose from 90 % to 130 % of GDP when the Memorandum guarantees that would not exceed 114 %. The Portuguese public debt is today the third highest in the European Union and the fourth highest in the OECD and only the external indebtedness of the State has risen to almost EUR 70 billion. “Reducing the external deficit”, the Programme continued. Yesterday, INE told us that the trade balance worsened in 2014 and is already at 10 billion euros negative. But the "problem of the future" is certainly the most bitter: in four years of reducing income, emigration and labour instability, birth has fallen more than in the previous decade and today, one in three children lives in poverty. in the country where employment is increasingly a mirage, replaced by the internship, which has become the norm in job announcements, and where the average salary of the new contracts remains for the €581 gross, the government wants to cut even more. Fifty-eight and one euro is a lot, regrets the Prime Minister, the champion of precariousness, saying that the costs of work are the reform to be done. in the country where parents and grandparents sacrificed themselves so that children and grandchildren could study, and today they see them going to other countries or living in the calvary of an internship search, the right guarantees to all generations that the way to accept is always worse. in the country where at the age of 30 or if you leave the country or not the home of the parents can leave, PSD/CDS promises that the State will distribute a few stages but will never hire any workers. It repeats the Government that 7 in 10 trainees find work, although the Banco de Portugal has said it is exactly the opposite. And now we know that the state is the first to set the example: in every 10 trainees, 10 are still unemployed at the end of the internship. If employment is what the country needs most, what it needs is the government's juggling to circumvent the unemployment rate. In the degrading fifteen-year presentations, they joined employment-inclusion contracts. Three words for three deceptions: they are not contracts because there is no bond; they are not jobs because there is no salary; they are not insertion because they are never included in the tables. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a job, yes. And salary. Only by recovering family income can you rescue the country. It is urgent to restore wages and pensions and it is urgent to ensure the social unemployment allowance for all people without any other income that are unemployed. The recovery of purchasing power from those who have less is both a requirement for dignity and human rights and economic recovery. This income is immediately injected into the economy, because whoever has less does not invest in tax havens, buy what he needs here. This revival of the internal market is the first and decisive step towards the recovery of the economy, by reverse the insolvency cycle and allowing job creation. And we do not accept that there are no resources to do so. In Portugal, labour income in these years has fallen from 48 % of wealth to 43 %. It's not lack of money, it's lack of good distribution. An effective tax reform, which relieves the IRS and will charge taxes where they have never been charged, can allow families to return more than EUR 6 billion in income. The rhetoric on the right about the need to lower the taxation of capital to attract investment proved to be wrong. They did not attract any productive investment to the country. Does anyone remember a single big company that has come these years to Country? To end the exemptions from real estate funds, to recover the taxation of IRC, to tax according to effective headquarters, to tax the great fortunes, are options that a government can and must make to defend its people. Tax reform and return of income are essential, but Portugal does not run out at its borders. the need for a new European policy to address the problem of debt and the need for its restructuring instead of continuing the infernal cycle of the salvation of an insatiable financial system. To recover the social state that has made Europe our ambition and that is the pillar of democracy is the challenge! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Hide in the debate, as they hide PSD, CDS and PS, that the consequences of the budgetary treaty they have signed are at least 20 more years of austerity is to fail in the answer to what is essential. We live days that require courage and, in Portugal, if we hear from the socialists silence and ambiguity beyond, on the right we find a destructive national selfishness. Cavaco Silva, who when he was Prime Minister directed the Government that most European funds received, is now insurging itself against the possibility of any European solidarity. See if France has done the same to us as we are now doing to Greece! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u289	Fortunately, the Greek people show that dignity does not give in to blackmail. We had taken it for our government to know the meaning of this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Having short sights at one of the hardest times for Europe and being focused solely on the right-wing electoral interests in power is a nameless irresponsibility. If the euro proves impossible, and variable geometry, do not be deceived: 19 minus 1 is not 18. It's zero! And Portugal will be one of the countries to suffer more and more rapidly the recessive effects of such leviance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the right says today to those who live in Portugal is that they will live in a country of safes full of debts and people without money in their pockets. What the Socialist Party tells us is that we can have less austerity if today's workers agree to borrow money from their pensions for the future, an idea that has both confusion and danger from those who show themselves unable to change what counts. We must be much more demanding! To take everything you have to serve the financial system is not to have courage, is to be unworthy of any trust. Being subordinate to finance can give beautiful pictures in Brussels or Strasbourg but only sinks Europe and Portugal. This is the time for solidarity among peoples and for having the courage to defend the country and people, in the name of democracy and dignity! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u290	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u291	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are words that can characterize environmental policy in this Parliament are giving in to great interests — that is, negotiated in the environment sector — authoritarianism and de-investment. With regard to giving in to large-scale interests, what I called a negotiating party, it is important to remember that this government has in its hands the absolute possibility of stopping with the economic, social and environmental crime that represents the construction of the Tua dam, which has strong impacts on the coast and for which the government says it is investing. Isn't that true, Minister of the Environment? They are making mistakes of this nature, with relevant impacts on the coast, which will cost the Portuguese very much when they repudiate the ashtray that that dam represents. Why this dam? To favor EDP! Also about the transfer to installed interests: this government has the possibility to stop the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in Portugal. What are you doing? Strictly nothing, giving in to the interests of the multinationals of the agri-food sector, notably Monsanto. What has the government done in the area of waste? He privatized EGF, a profit-making company. Mr Environment Minister, I would like you to respond, if any, to the following question: in the first announcement of the privatisation of the EGF, they said that they had 25 % more workers. In other words, it is the logic that we have always denounced here: privatization is equal to dismissal. This is absolutely unbelievable, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u292	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u293	Another word I said that characterizing the environment policy of this government is authoritarianism, which was the result of the reform of the water sector, in a completely contrary logic to the authorities and the interests of the people and preparing a clear path to the privatization of water. If this were not intended by the Government and by the majority, they would have approved the proposal that the Greens made to integrate into the water framework law the principle of non- privatization of the water sector. They denied it because they have that prospect for the future. More: the Basics of the Environment Act was adopted in an absolutely authoritarian way in the Assembly of the Republic. And what a pity you didn't remember the process that took place here in 1986 / 87, in which there was a large majority of support for the then Environmental Base Law! ...Now, they did a completely inverse process: they voted alone. Another word that characterizes this policy of the environment is de-investment, mainly in the conservation of nature. When we talk about conservation of nature and biodiversity, we talk about very serious issues: we talk about support of life, we talk about services that are provided to us free of charge and which we must preserve, we talk about preservation of ecosystems, we talk about preservation of species, we talk about preservation of genes. So we're talking about a global dimension of life. This government has simply turned its back on the conservation of nature, brutally disinvesting the bodies that have this responsibility, and has also turned its back on the issue of nature surveillance, particularly at the level of human and technical means. This Ministry of the Environment did not have the strength for the necessary transversality that is imposed on environmental policy. in this Parliament, when confronted with the importance that the transport sector has for the environment and, in particular, on combating climate change, I heard Mr Environment Minister say : « I am not Minister for Transport! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is not, in fact, but it did not have the ability to influence fundamental things. If there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to look at the so-called 'environmental tax reform', which has not strictly touched on any issue which is fundamental in this area, as is the case with transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u294	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u295	I will finish, Madam President. Well, transversality has achieved Mrs. Finance Minister — justice has been done to her! — but with very bad consequences for the Portuguese people. It is that environmental taxation was done and worked solely because the government needed EUR 150 million. It is a shame and frustration, Minister for the Environment! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u296	For an intervention, since it still has time, Mr. João Galamba has the floor. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Insulting is not telling someone who is a liar when he lies. The biggest insult is lying, and that is what Mr. Prime Minister does repeatedly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He started doing it - in 2011, did it in 2012, did it in 2013, did it in 2014 and did it - probably - every time he sat in this assembly. More: he had the aim of trying to do it again for the 2015 elections. That, yes, Mr. Prime Minister, is that an insult! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]] This majority does not want to be evaluated by what you have done, but a government, in a debate about the state of the nation, has no way of escaping and will even be evaluated by everything you have done in the past four years. This Government in August 2011 presented to the country its legislative objectives, in a document called the Budget Strategy Document, I repeat, presented in August 2011 containing the numbers of this Government, the objectives of this Government. We then see how your targets have been achieved or not: GDP has less than EUR 13 billion than you expected in 2011, we are 7 % below the targets set by this majority, we have less than 300 000 jobs than this previous majority we would have in 2015, i.e. employment is 6 % below your own targets ; we have less EUR 6, 7 billion of investment than this majority expected to have in 2015, and we are 20 % below your own targets ; as for exports, that Dr. Paulo Portas always says they are beating records—in fact, it is enough to increase 1 cent per year to beat records—... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... are EUR 5,5 billion below the government's forecast, i.e. 7 % below the objectives set by this government. We are talking about debt, which, even with the standardized series, even with all the perimeter changes, with everything, this government said would increase by a maximum of 6 or 8 percentage points and have increased by more than 30 percentage points, so they have repeatedly failed in this objective too. So it's a little surreal to hear the majority come here saying they did. They didn't do it! They've all failed! And, as much as you want to stop the 2011 elections again, I will give you a news: we are in 2015 and have no alternative but to stop these elections, where they will be judged by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u298	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate of the state of the nation is also a debate about the state of the nation that we link to the next generation. However, this government has not made economic and financial constraints an excuse for delaying, hesitation or compromise, but, on the contrary, an additional reason for daring, reforming and leading in green growth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u300	In addition, this has been recognized internationally by the United Nations, the OECD, the World Bank, the European Commission and by a wide range of NGOs with advantages for Portuguese institutions and companies. We have been able to demonstrate that it is entirely possible and indisputable to put green growth policies at the service of environmental protection, but also of competitiveness and solidarity, facing interests and removing incomes, obstacles and prejudices that have prevented us for many years from growing sustained and sustainable. Let me give you an example of the reforms carried out in the area of energy and climate change. in the electric sector, we implemented two excessive income reduction packages totalling EUR 3400 million and thus avoided increases in tariffs from 12 % to 14 % and ensured the reduction of tariff debt by 2020 from EUR 6000 million to EUR 600 to EUR 1000 million. Thus, the tariff deficit in electricity will reach the lowest value this year of the last five years and the cuts already made ensure the existence of annual tariff surplus from the end of this year. In addition, since 2014 we have applied an extraordinary contribution on energy companies, amounting to EUR 150 million per year, without any possibility of impact on consumers. But, as we have always said, energy is not electricity, so already in a post-trogic context, we advanced, in May 2014 for a third package of reforms and cuts in the area of energy, extended to the whole sector. Firstly, with the extension of the social tariff to a whole of beneficiaries which could reach the 500 000 families. With this measure, once again financed by an additional cut of EUR 25 million per year and not by the State budget, socially more vulnerable consumers are already benefiting from reductions of 34 %, not 20 %, in electricity tariffs. Secondly, in the context of fuels, we have introduced, since November 2014, the publication of reference prices for stock gas and liquid fuels and advanced for the generalization of low cost fuels, increasing the competitiveness, transparency and freedom of choice of consumers. Finally, we have extended the application of the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector to long-term natural gas supply contracts concluded with Nigeria and Algeria under the take-or-pay scheme, providing, with the additional revenue of EUR 150 million entirely allocated to the national natural gas system, a reduction in tariffs to domestic and industrial consumers by 5 % over three years. This measure, together with the regulatory decisions taken by ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ), has already resulted in a reduction of tariffs from 7% to 12% in natural gas in the second half of this year. In other words, the cuts applied by the government to energy companies exceed EUR 4 billion. These cuts were not free of challenge, but were fundamental to consumer protection and the competitiveness of the economy. But our action in the area of energy has also consolidated the bet on renewable energy, energy efficiency and electricity mobility. The weight of renewable energy in electricity increased by 45 % in 2011 to 62 % in 2014 ; external energy dependence reached the lowest of the last 20 years in 2014 71 % when for example in 2005 it reached 90 %; carbon intensity was reduced by 17 % compared to 2005 levels. Thus, Portugal was considered in 2013 and 2014 as the fourth best country in the world in climate policy and the tenth best country in the world in energy policy, according to indices produced by international organizations. We have tried — and this has been the target of international recognition in comparison with other countries — that it is possible to cut energy costs and continue the bet on renewable energies, and we have gone further, approving a package for climate and energy that identified new targets for 2030 : 40 % of renewables in final energy consumption, i.e. 80 % of renewable electricity; 30 % of energy consumption reduction; and 40 % of greenhouse gas emissions reduction, this compared to 2005. But because we put the citizen at the centre of energy policies, we approved the energy self-consumption regime, which allowed us to have twice as much energy self-consumption facilities in the first few months of this year as compared to the cumulative effect of the previous 12 years. We have established a cost-efficient and structured, and not voluntary or symbolic, bet on electric mobility based on three pillars: first, greater competition in the public network and priority to loading into housing and workplaces; second, mitigating the disadvantages of electric mobility in the price, through green taxation, which allowed, with the incentives that were generated, to triple this year the number of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids that were sold to last year; third, to place the public administration in a leadership perspective by example, through the Eco.Mob Programme, which will allow savings estimated at EUR 50 million for the gradual introduction of electric mobility. But it is also important to highlight the decision that will revolutionise Portuguese and European energy policy over the next few years: strengthening energy interconnections. The Portuguese Government's initiative and perseverance enabled the 10 % power interconnection target to be redeemed by 2020 and 15 % by 2030, and in this way we will be able to reduce energy costs in annual terms in the European Union by EUR 40 billion, and Portuguese citizens will finally benefit from a European energy market. At the same time, Portugal may become a renewable electricity supplier for the European Union and the Sines terminal, such as the other liquefied natural gas terminals in the Iberian Peninsula, will serve as an alternative to imports of natural gas from Russia, strengthening energy security and reducing prices for Portuguese consumers. But, Madam President and Mrs. Members, reforms in the green area have largely transcended the area of energy and have included reforms as ambitious as: the reform of green taxation; the restructuring of the urban waste sector; the reform of the water sector; the Single Environmental Licensing; the reform of the spatial planning; the reform of urban lease, rental and income allowance; the exceptional urban rehabilitation regime; the strengthening of green investment, totaling EUR 5000 million in the new funds; the plan of protection and exploitation of the coastline with EUR 300 million; the programme of demolition of illegal constructions on the coast, without parallel in the last 30 years; nature conservation projects, including the reintroduction of the Iberian lynx; the new geological and mining licensing regime; and the regime of regularization of 3000 economic activities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have thus been able to make the bet on green growth an element of competitiveness, sustainability and solidarity, but this must be a lasting bet and we will have to ensure ambition, stability and predictability. For this reason, we have celebrated the commitment to green growth, establishing a true social pact with 82 civil society organizations, ensuring the reconciliation, in our development model, of competitiveness with the efficient use of resources and the environmental protection and positioning of Portugal as the world leader of green growth, taking advantage of our talents, our infrastructures, our resources and our geostrategic positioning, benefiting from the increasing demand for green goods and services at international level. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u301	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment, Planning the Territory and Energy, the government would make a good contribution to the sustainability of the sector if it stopped spending so much energy trying to convince the country that we are better, despite the evidence. It's that light, when it's artificial, is always much more expensive. The citizens know - we know - politically, we know - when we live, when they compare the government's speech, the vast list of measures, always accompanied by many millions, to make more figures, that the Minister here brings, with a fact as simple as the account of the light they receive every month...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u303	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some interference in sound. I apologize for interrupting, Your Honor. He wants to go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u304	Thank you, Madam President. It was clearly a short-circuit! I think we can go back to the light the Portuguese get at home. Portuguese know the price of this artificial light when they compare the bill of light, which they receive at home, with the astronomical profits that EDP receives every year: more than 1000 million per year! It is this urgency that the Government has to respond in the area of electricity, that is to these inequalities and that is the need for a bearable price of light for the families that the Government has to respond to. How is it justified, Mr Minister — and you did not talk about it — to keep electricity VAT to 23 % but to reduce the overtax to large electricity, such as EDP? How does it justify that workers continue to pay IRS overtax when electricity will no longer pay any overtax on their profits? How does it justify, in the face of these inequalities, that it is not able to impose on these electricity a social tariff policy which, in fact, is effective and reaches as many families as it needs? The Minister makes several promises, several promises, he announces various wishes, wonders, but we want results and the results do not appear, or rather, the results we have tell us that there are 300 000 families with cut electricity, the results that we have point to the increase in seasonal mortality, and I would like to translate this. Seasonal mortality is seen because people, many elderly people in the interior, do not have heating conditions at home due to the price of electricity. This is what causes the increase in seasonal mortality, and this is what we talk about when we say that the price of electricity has unacceptable values in Portugal, and nothing is being done to solve this problem. And I conclude, despite the Minister's lack of time to provide clarification, saying that it was good for him to clarify, once and for all, the privatisation of the EGF (General Development Company ) and its conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u305	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u306	I'm done now, Madam President. This problem of lack of transparency, in which the government never, but never, shows the conditions for the companies it is selling, its promises and its agreements with the private ones, leads to the fact that we do not have the basis for discussion and we are here discussing knowledge or information that we have by various means. It tells us who knows, tells us the authorities, that this contract provides for maintenance and safety cuts at work and that it provides for an excess of 25 % of workers. Mr Minister, it was time to say anything about the conditions of this contract, which are harmful to the EGF, to its workers and, now, to the environment and to the environment in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u307	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u308	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when we arrive at the end of this debate, it is clear, for all Portuguese and for this House, that the government again insists on the lie, the lie with which it was elected and ruled the country for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lie that daily insults the Portuguese who feel the difficulties of their government. And if the word of this Prime Minister has proved to be of no value over the years, that of his partner, Vice Prime Minister, the « irrevocable», he did not get behind him either. It is to say that if you remain in the government it was an act of concealment, then, Vice-President-Minister, you will have the opportunity to come here to close this hidden debate, because of course, because it remained in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government wanted to rule and ruled far beyond the troika. He cut wages, pensions, Christmas and holiday allowances, invited young people to emigrate. And don't apologize to the past, ladies. Members, the past has been judged and these last four years will be judged in the coming months. Do not apologize for the mistakes of the past, assume that they have robbed the Portuguese of hope and destroyed dreams for many and many who had to leave the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reality of the facts. The government caused recession, not by imposition of the Troika Memorandum, but by its own choice. Who doesn't remember Victor Gaspar's austerity anymore? The government has destabilized the Portuguese by its own choice and continues to threaten, insists on lying. Right now, Mr. Prime Minister has sold to the country a future of illusions, but he knows that he has negotiated a cut of more than 600 million euros in pensions in Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By choice of this government, the government caused unemployment. Do you remember the country where Pedro Passos Coelho asked young people to leave their comfort zone? And what a comfort zone, Prime Minister! When confronted with the difficulties of young people, ask them to leave the comfort zone and to emigrate because there is no need here. This government promised and promoted war between generations, encouraged envy among public sector workers and the private sector, invited teachers and young people to leave the country, cut science, research and ignored culture. That's the balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government can make dissimulations, sell illusions, continue to believe in a country that does not know, but this government has sold the country to waste, without taking proper care of the national interest. It's not the PS who says it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members are the Court of Auditors, in a newly known audit. You have failed this republican government of decency and ethics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the chaos in the health services, in the paralysis of the courts, by the crash of Citius, in the blizzard of the opening of the school year, he blamed officials and washed his hands as Pilate. This is the government of denial and, if any, this debate of the State of the Nation has shown that Mr. Prime Minister is in denial. To the questions of the Socialist Party, which brought the problems of the country, of people, of families, of businesses, the Prime Minister says : « I have no time to answer and I am a Prime Minister». [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the government that now makes us believe that its four-year action was ultimately an urban myth. But it wasn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't an urban myth, it had been an urban myth before. Let the unemployed, the long-term unemployed who have no expectations or social protection; let the young people who had to emigrate say that they had to leave higher education; let the mothers and parents of this country say that they have no money to feed their children every day! [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, it's not an urban myth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u309	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u310	I will finish, Madam President. This government even existed and, recovering the words of Eça de Queiroz, it was a knot, but a knot that has to come out, for the sake of Portugal and for the benefit of the Portuguese. The real plague, yes, Mr. Prime Minister, is the unfortunate result of this government's policy, with socially painful results.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u311	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u312	I shall finish now, Madam President, but allow me to say that the Portuguese want a shared-growth economy, that creates jobs, that creates a competent government, that politicians value those who strive and work, that respect people's rights and dignity, that they want to have before the country people who know how to hear and defend Portugal in Europe. We now need a new majority of governments that actually govern for the majority of Portuguese. Portugal cannot waste any more time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u313	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u314	... Portuguese have a clear choice to make: either the government of unfair and useless sacrifices or the return to growth, with the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] The confidence alternative is with PS and is with António Costa. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u315	Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u316	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mark of this debate that will remain for history is the one that the Socialist Party has printed on it,... [[Thank you! Thank you very much!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u317	... this debate is marked by insult. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The free insult to the Prime Minister, [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u318	...the insult that does not promote democracy, the insult that does not clarify the Portuguese, the insult that does not build up the future of Portugal, the insult by the insult.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u319	What insult? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u320	Mr Prime Minister, you may well have tried, but the Socialist Party Members did not want to hear your clarifications, want to insult and end point.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u321	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u322	That's really desperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u323	Hit some palms there...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u324	in this debate before the elections, the Portuguese hoped more of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese hoped that the Socialist Party would come here today to make an act of contrition because they brought the troika to Portugal in 2011. He didn't, he insulted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Socialist Party could have praised the Portuguese and the Government for having all overcome the crisis, but the Socialist Party chose to insult the Portuguese and has no proposals for the future,... [[PS laughter.]] ...has insults. Nothing more matters to the Socialist Party than the insult, the insulting brother of radicalism, the insulting brother of despair. It's little, it's poor, it's poor what the Socialist Party did here today. Portugal needs a good government... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Listen: Portugal needs a good government and Portugal also needs... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. President. — Would you like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u325	I will say a third time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u326	Don't get out of there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u327	I'm out, I'm out, and it's gonna be so surprised how I'm gonna get out! Portugal needs a good government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but Portugal also needs a quality opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u328	You were better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u329	Today, the PS was not a quality opposition and therefore I give them advice: see if in the coming months, see if they learn to be a quality opposition in the coming years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u330	Mrs. Member of the Commission, we have reached the end of this debate on the state of the nation. The closure will be made by Mr Vice-First Minister, so you have the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u331	You're going to talk about the state reform script. Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u332	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all and each of the members of this House. This is the last debate of the state of the Nation of this legislature and this legislation has been marked by the exceptionality of the financial circumstance and by the consequent restriction of national freedom. There is nothing more threatening for an ancient nation than the risk of its independence and there will be nothing more painful for a democracy, despite everything, young than forced coexistence with a union of foreign creditors, to whom the former government called for help in the early days of a fearful insolvency. This exceptionality has called each of us and each of you to unusual challenges and difficult choices. Still, no one has suspended democracy, the polling took place livelyly, and the Portuguese, as a community, knew how to avoid confrontations and ruptures like those we saw happening elsewhere. Each one, in the majority and in the opposition, will be convinced of his reason, but I do not doubt that everyone, and each in his own way, gave the best of you. It happened to us collectively in this Parliament, we are the generation of the ransom. We endure it and we win it. for our part, we remain loyal to an idea of Portugal that brought us here in 2011. Three times in democracy we saw troikas and rescues in our country. That 2011 was definitely the last time! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The good news is that there seems to be conditions for never again to work. It may therefore be helpful to recall here the amendment made by a famous German regarding the fact that history repeats itself: « The first time, as a tragedy, and the second time as a farce». on which we depend, history will not repeat itself! We are close to an election campaign, in which the risk of a certain spirit of faction, as we have already seen, prevail over the principle of reason is not small and in which the temptation to simplify what is complex is not residual. But politicians must be aware of the intelligence of the citizens and pay tribute to the sacrifices that the citizens have made, because they have done them for the common good of this nation of all, which is Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u333	They were forced to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u334	The Portuguese value what they have achieved as their homeland. The Portuguese know the price of bankruptcy and therefore give value to recovery. The Portuguese see, hear and read what is happening in other countries and therefore value the fact that the situation in Portugal is completely different. The Portuguese know that the State of the Nation in 2011 was a public calamity and remember the abysmal point reached the reputation of Portugal. The Portuguese value the steps they have overcome and the greater evils they have delivered. The 2011 radical pessimism gave rise to a moderate hope in 2015. [[PS protests.]] Keeping the signs of this hope is the most prudent, consolidated, I would say, is the most important. If we apply a modern intellectual rigour to our debates, we will recognize the essential: Portugal was able, in less than four years, to complete its programme with the troika at the first possible time; we did not ask for any more money or request more time; we had a clean exit, there was no second rescue or even cautious programme; this year, the deficit will be less than 3 %, when what we received was more than 10 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u335	Go to 6 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u336	... we will therefore benefit from access to the rules of flexibility, often mentioned, but only granted to trusted countries; we anticipate reimbursement to the IMF, because we can save on the immoderately high interest that was negotiated in 2011 ; and, above all, the economy grows above the euro average, confidence is at its best levels since 2002 (consumers) and since 2008 (employers), investment recovers, exports rise and job creation improved. It is not a small thing, it is a huge effort, it means no more or less than a worthy passport for quite different times and of another quality, in the life of the country and in the lives of people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This is the time to make two political reflections. along this path, from the protectorate to shared sovereignty and the recession to growth, there were those who in this Chamber proclaimed that there was another strategy and there were those who, too, said there was another policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u337	And there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u338	With all due respect, both theses are refuted by the facts. The Socialist Party was deceived when it suggested the inevitability of a second rescue. We didn't need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u339	Mr. Prime Minister also suggested it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u340	It was wrong when you proposed that we ask for more time and more money. If we had, the troika would still be in Portugal today and our dependence on it would be more expensive and longer. He was deceived when he suggested as desire, and not just an option, a cautious exit. As no one knows what that is, no one can guarantee what it would cause, except for sure that the margin of manoeuvre would be smaller. Finally, it was deceived when I did not know how to analyze the signs of resumption and it seems really little to the will with its evidence, as if the common good, the general good and the good of all caused discomfort or discomfort. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] at the origin of the crisis, the PS has a responsibility on which it never reflected nor wanted to correct. in the strategy to get out of the adjustment, the government revealed to be basically right and the major opposition party revealed to be basically wrong. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u341	There is another field in this Parliament: those who argue that Portugal must come out of the euro, something which is noted! — nor do the Greeks wish. I recognize, as I have done several times, the conceptual coherence of the Communist Party in this position. It is true that the euro has rules and, therefore, being in the euro, for more than one negotiated programme on the edge of insolvency, there would essentially be no alternative policies to which the government has to comply. What is also worth saying is that the exit of the euro or the attempt to stay there, without complying with its rules — here, more to the attention of the Left Block — is a dangerous chimera. We all want for the benefit of Europe, its economies and its citizens, that the situation of the Gregatermine with a viable and acceptable agreement for all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u342	Above the will of the Portuguese Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u343	... but, attention, it is simply a fear to imagine that in Portugal it could even happen what is going on with the Greeks, with multibanks without money, with an independent financial system and a crippled economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Remember, in fact, what happened in Argentina and Brazil. And we have always warned of the risk that demagogy puts nations, which, after that, are subject to the corralite or mere confidation. The despair of people, with their savings and their incomes and, therefore, with their lives, tells us all about what we should not experience and confirms all that we have not yet done. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Portugal is safe from this and this protection is a precious guarantee, from then on to the poorest. A single monetary zone is not manageable without shared rules, so little it is feasible to want to stay inside, go contrary to others and, on the way, ask others the money to go against everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u344	It is good to make interventions without contradiction!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The noun most used in politics is change. Now, at the end of this legislation, it is clear something that some cannot explain: change has changed the field. Traditionally, the government is continuity and opposition promises change. Now, the fact that we have lived in exceptionality and that we have been defeated as a country allows the Portuguese, with stability, to make the way for four years that will no longer be exceptional, but, yes, normal— precisely the normality and predictability that the rescue and its authors have taken us —,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... and allows families to face, with their feet based on the earth, the future in another way: to think less about restrictions and more about recovery, with a much more positive and much less anguished attitude, mobilising and not delaying life projects, exactly what the Memorandum, its causes and its leaders so often left in suspense to so many people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] By winning the ransom, we have achieved confidence; by preserving trust, we have at hand a very different legislature, with progressive recovery of public salaries, with sustained recovery of pensions, with gradual but firm relief from overtaxes, with more intensive job creation. And the social state itself, free of its greatest enemy, which is the broken state, can only be strengthened. The next Parliament, in fact, will be social or will not be. The results that the Portuguese have achieved in this legislature give them the right to this change of horizon in the country and in their life expectancy. [[PS protests.]] in this sense, it is the majority that carries the legitimacy of this change, by the guarantee of realism that can offer and because solidarity has never been monopolie on the left, as much as it costs you to hear that solidarity is not monopolie on the left. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u346	Practice is the criterion of truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u347	Also in this sense, the greater part of the opposition is not change, it is only the risk of a return, and this brings us to a past that is not advisable to revisit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Someone I very much love said, one day, "there is more life than the deficit". Truth! With the deficit controlled, the first signs are already there, the feeling that we are improving is already obvious and the next legislation will fully demonstrate it. Let us look confidently at the days ahead of us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u348	Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, we have concluded the debate on the state of the nation. Allow me to thank you for all the words you have referred to the collective effort that has been made here by Members of Parliament and members of the Government. In fact, we have come to the end of a legislature, one of the most difficult ever, which has given us the opportunity to make our time, and we thank the voters for that opportunity. I would like to thank the efforts of all, the participation of all, and to remember the great dogma of democracy: justice is achieved only by the exercise of freedom. It is with this compliment that I address everyone. We, ladies and gentlemen, will still find ourselves in plenary session on 22 July, but since there are members of the government who are also actors in Parliament, it is now for all, and also for the honourable Members. Journalists, my big hug. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also proceed to the statutory votes, and I would therefore ask the services to act in favour of the electronic system for checking presences. In the meantime, I ask Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Maria Paula Cardoso, to announce the entry into the Bureau of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u349	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 1047 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rehabilitation and reintegration into the Army of the Captain of Infantry Artur Carlos Barros Basto, which was the target of political-religious segregation in 1937 ( PSD and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-08.u350	I would therefore like to ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register your presence electronically. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 211 presences, to which 4 are added, making 215 Members, so we have quorum to vote. We begin by voting on draft deliberation No 32 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to deliberations No 9 - PL / 2015 of 12 June ( Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 1365 / XII ( 4 ) follows ( 4 ). ( a ) — End with losses and constraints of livestock production caused by alkathea attacks ( PCP ). The Left Block requested the separate vote of point 5 ( a ). [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we shall vote on this point. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and the abstention from BE.]] The other points in the motion for a resolution are to be voted on. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1002 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of nurses for the National Health Service ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1184 / XII ( 4. a ) — by strengthening and valuing the role of nurses in the National Health Service ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our next plenary session will take place on 22 July, Wednesday. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 59 minutes.]]
