ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin our agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: draft resolutions No 1214 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the dismantling of the fishing port of Póvoa de Varzim and the conduct of a technical study that solves this structural problem ( CFP ), 1215 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Construction of the Integrated Basic School with Children's Garden ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1216 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures concerning the improvement of security conditions in accessibility to national bars and fishing ports ( PS ) ; draft laws No 748 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes a common mobility scheme for civil servants and civil servants ( PS ), 749 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( The Greens ), 750 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday and 751 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes the eighth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 providing for specific arrangements for the enjoyment and celebration of certain holidays, including their possible provisional suspension and lifting of the suspension. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the proposals for law No. 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant, which falls to 1. the Commission, 272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with the measures imposed, transposing Council Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JHA of 23 October 2009 down to 1. the Commission, 273 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August 2009 laying down the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act, which falls to 1. the Commission, 274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — lays down the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification by transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August 1. the commission, and 275 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network, which goes down to 6. the Commission. In terms of file it is all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u3	After reading the file, we will enter the first item on our agenda, which consists of political statements, and which will be made by the following order: PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and PSD. To give the first political statement in the afternoon, Mr Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted this political statement to be mainly about internal, national issues, but exactly one week ago a barbarous attack was committed in Paris, an attack on freedom and tolerance, greater values of Europe and the civilization to which we belong. I cannot therefore begin this speech without leaving here a word of solidarity for the French and France, country of freedom, who have been able to welcome so many times those who fight for it, for the families of the victims and, above all, for those who, in France and in the world, fight for the values of freedom, equality and fraternity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can never allow, as much as the difficulties and more bloody as the provocations are, that our culture of tolerance and hospitality be called into question by terrorist acts that are carried out by some who simply have the idea of freedom causes them to kill in the name of a plan that aims to confuse with religious faith. We say here once again, and whenever necessary, that we are not afraid of terrorists and that we are not intimidated by barbaric and meaningless acts. Our values of freedom and fraternity are values that we will honour, even in the moments of even the most fierce combat, bearing in mind that even in the most experienced and solid democracies there are sometimes serious deviations, serious errors and crimes committed which some wish to justify with the purposes they say to pursue. In this regard, I draw the attention of this House to the importance of the recent report of the United States Senate on torture and for the lesson of self-criticism and democratic humility that gives us in assuming and seeking to correct serious mistakes. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Turning now to the national reality and the difficult situation that the country is going through, my first word is perplexity — perplexity with the fact that every day we hear our rulers and their supporters applaud the return to markets as if it were a good thing in itself. Yes, it's true, we went back to the markets. But then what? A few months ago, my parliamentary leader, my comrade and friend Ferro Rodrigues said here: "Two years ago, we said in this same forum that the economic situation was worsening and that the despair was taking care of many families. By that time we had a divided and credible government. The PS also warned by the voice of Antonio José Seguro, for the consequences of budgetary policy, of a policy of tax bombardment on the middle classes and on workers, a policy of reducing social minimums which could only have a devastating impact ». The devastating impact is there. The Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have found, in a constant schism of wanting to settle accounts with the past of socialist governance, a formula for not having to worry about the social and economic situation of the people we represent here. Yes, because it is never too much to remember that, in this House, the people are represented and not the sad famous markets. It is true that we have returned to the markets, but for the people we represent right-wing policy here has resulted in a drastic and sometimes dramatic loss of quality of life: loss of employment, loss of education, loss of social security and justice—losses that beat the fundamental pillars of a just and decent society. Look at the trail caused by right-wing governance and leave that socialist heritage there in peace. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The Portuguese people have judged our governance four years ago, as well emphasized a few days ago, in an intervention in plenary, my comrade Alberto Costa, and gave you a majority to rule. And what did you guys do with that majority? Four years of talking about the heavy inheritance, they're tired. I repeat the question: what have you done with the majority? This is the question I am asking and to which I answer, as a member of the Socialist Party and representative of the people. They have adopted and surpassed the programme of austerity and impoverishment of the troika and have made it your government programme since 2011. They have walked these four years of arm given with the ideas of the most savage economic liberalism, selling heritage to waste, firing and pseudo-qualifying. And they almost always did it in the most cruel way, leading them to be the most disadvantaged to pay the bill. They left the country poorer and more unequal. This, in my view, is unfortunately an indisputable fact, a shame. They continue to insist on the past and state of things in 2011, but we are in 2015. And now, my lords, what are we talking about? Madam President, we enter a year when the Portuguese will be given the floor to assess the government and make their choices, to make an assessment of a mandate from 2011 to 2015 and not about the more or less distant past. That assessment will be made, and at the right time, that is, at the end of the legislative mandate. The government and the majority who ampara know that they cannot escape this popular judgment. I dare say until you know very well what the judgment of the Portuguese will be: defeating the right policy, defeating the PSD/CDS coalition. The PS, for its part, as its leader, my comrade Antonio Costa has repeatedly said, prepares himself seriously and actively to take on the responsibilities that the Portuguese give him. In the forthcoming legislative elections we will discuss a desirable majority to govern Portugal, an absolute and inclusive majority, which rejects the democratically abstract concept, as António Costa has often pointed out, of the so-called 'arch of governance'. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will definitely argue with a majority to serve Portuguese and Portugal, faithful to our values of Democrats and socialists. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u5	Mr João Soares, Mr Soares, was informed. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, PSD, Carla Cruz, PCP, Cecília Honorio, BE, and Telmo Correia, CDS-PP. In the meantime, Mr João Soares informed the Bureau that he intends to respond together. First of all, Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u6	Mr President, Mr. João Soares, again brought to this House the issue of barbaric attacks in Paris. last Sunday I was privileged to be present on behalf of my Parliamentary Group at a demonstration in which I was accompanied by other members of this Parliament, also representing their parliamentary groups, by the Prime Minister of Portugal, by the President of the Assembly of the Republic and, above all, by the huge community residing in France. I saw our people in Paris, through their communities and their institutions, be supportive of France, their institutions and their people in a clear form of repudiation of unbelievable attacks and that we must censure. It was a strong moment of emotion—and I have already participated in other demonstrations in Paris—of great emotion, but it was also a moment of union from all over France, of which the French-Portuguese also communicate, and a moment of union of many European and world political leaders. It was a unique moment in the recent history of the world in which we live. However, my friends, past the emotion, past the moment of union, need more than inflamed speeches. More than remembering what happened, action needs to be taken. It is necessary, with thought and in consultation with our partners worldwide, to try to find ways, through various measures that we can take in common, to prevent barbaric acts like these from preventing us from living by regulation. I myself have children living in Paris and I'm worried, every day, when they catch the subway or go to school. I am somewhat surprised—but it is also important that this reference be made—that the Socialist Party, through Mr John Soares, should associate these attacks with the economic issue. Mr. Deputies, we have all been connected to the French media! I advise you to continue to follow French, British and American social communication to verify the image that the country has taken on an international level. Articles on Portugal, in particular on what happened yesterday, with our return to markets and a debt issue between 10 and 30 years are published every week. Look at the social communication in its whole, don't change the channel and watch the economic news! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. João Soares, asked here what the government has done. The government did something extraordinary when we associated it with foreign policy, and particularly France. In June 2011 the headlines of French newspapers embarrassed our country, embarrassed our immigrants. We were on the edge of bankruptcy and our country was doing the first pages for the worst reasons. Today, the same Portuguese people open the newspapers and feel that the country is credible. And it is not by chance that, in France, we speak of the coming of many French to Portugal, because this is a safe country, it is a credible country with a future. Many of those who are in this Chamber and, in particular, the Government have contributed to this, with the support of all Portuguese, those who are here and those who are there, especially those who have expressed themselves. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u7	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u8	Mr President, Mr João Soares, brought to this House an issue which is indeed important and which the CFP at the right time condemned, and continues to condemn: the barbaric attack that took place in Paris. But the honourable Member then referred to the national situation, making an assessment, a diagnosis. It is true that the government has already started the time of the legislative and propaganda elections, wanting to forget these black years of governance, unemployment, precariousness, exploitation and growth of debt. The honourable Member made this good diagnosis from the rostrum, but we did not hear from the Socialist Party any solution for the country. The honourable Member said that it was necessary to break up the right-wing policy. The break with the right-wing policy for the CFP is invariably due to the end of this exploitation policy, to the end of the impoverishment policy. But it is also, as we have said since April 2011, by renegotiating debt, by breaking up with the budget treaty and with all the constraints that it imposes for the growth and development of our country. We have not come from the Socialist Party, by the voice of Mr. João Soares, no solution for the country, no position on it. Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions, on which it would be important to have a thorough clarification by the Socialist Party. What is the Socialist Party's position on the budgetary treaty? Does the Socialist Party follow the CFP when it says that it is necessary to break with the budget treaty and with the constraints it puts on the country? Does the Socialist Party follow the need to renegotiate the debt in the aspects we refer to — within time limits, amounts and values? Mr President, it is important that the Socialist Party, once and for all, clarify this situation, because it cannot say that it is necessary to break with the right policy and continue to subscribe to it, to continue to compact with the PSD and the CDS in such important measures that have taken the country over the past 38 years to sink and impoverishment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u9	Mrs Cecilia Honorio, from BE, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u10	Mr President, Mr Soares, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and tell you that, on our part, we can only follow you in this complaint, which must never stop a vile attack on freedom and freedom of expression, with which we cannot deal. Mr President, I would like to ask you how the PS today looks at the heritage of the French PS. How do you look at Holland today when you have made it the possibility of salvation and redemption from a crisis Europe? How does the PS today understand and want to take on this heritage when facing the most unpopular president of France's history, who today still seems to want to produce a kind of "Bush effect" which has gripped, as we well know, the attacks of September 11 as a vessel for its own salvation? In our understanding, this was the demonstration that Holland gave us, that is, that this vile attack on fundamental rights and freedom as its own shield of salvation. How does the PS view, in particular, the threat of the revision of the Schengen Treaty and the threat of exceptional measures to condition fundamental freedoms? How does the PS look before this inheritance and this possibility? What does the PS have to say today about these measures that may be under discussion, on the table, and what will conditions freedom? Can an attack on freedom be reduced to an attack, with these measures, against the freedom of citizens and citizens of Europe, Mr João Soares? This is the first big question. Finally, I wanted to leave you a challenge, hoping that this time the PS will respond. The honourable Member has made a big challenge here, saying that the PS is prepared for an absolute majority and for breaking up with policies, but the Portuguese people still do not know exactly how. How is it possible for the PS to launch this challenge and make this political balance sheet of this government without saying exactly how it will break up with austerity policies? It is, in fact, Mr Deputy, that seems to us to be not going. There is no clear commitment of the PS to disengagement with regard to this very heavy instrument that is the budgetary treaty. You continue to close your eyes, shake your head and accept the very violent commitments of the budget treaty. in this context, the perspective is, of course, that of the continuity of austerity policies. Maybe this time the PS explains to the Portuguese how it's going to break this up. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u11	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u12	Madam President, Mr Soares, I do not have the same hope nor the same expectation as that of Mrs Cecilia Honorio that you can tell us what the inheritance of François Hollande is about. I don't think you can answer how you view the inheritance of José Socrates, the more so that of François Hollande, which is much more difficult for the Portuguese Socialist Party! I also have no hope that you will explain the various contradictions that have already been faced here today. I would also like to say to you, Mr Soares, with the sympathy I have for you, that, despite not agreeing with everything you said, you were not going wrong. You have chosen an important issue—and I have had occasion, along with the honourable Members. Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves and Mr Pisco, with Mr Prime Minister and Mr President, to participate also in the Paris event, spoke about a fundamental issue today, but there are some points where there is a need to be some caution. First of all, we know that fundamentalism feeds on complex situations, particularly economic, but we can never use these economic situations as a means of apologizing fundamentalism or terrorism. I think there needs to be some caution in this regard. Secondly, I would like to ask you if you do not think that what is really important, and that impressed me, was the evolution of "I am Charlie" to "I am a cop" and "I am a Jew". That is, the great unity of all those who believe in democracy and freedom of expression is the great way to respond to this challenge and the problem. So far, all right, there's no problem, Mr. Deputies. However, Mr. João Soares resolved, passing the phrase, « erasing the painting». And "he deleted the painting" when he turned to the internal situation, to the national situation. The honourable Member used an argument that we had already heard from the Socialist Party's bench, which was to say « good, we have already been judged, there have been elections and, therefore, we have nothing to do with anything from there, the matter is not ours, nor are they telling us more about it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u14	That is not the case, Mr President. It is true that the Socialist Party has been electorally judged in the elections, but it is also true that, in those elections, it has been judged both by its errors and — the expression — by its sins. And it is also true that those who have so far been spying on and paying for the sins of the Socialist Party were the Portuguese, who have suffered the consequences of these same mistakes and those same sins. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] To this day, sir! Because everything we have spent, from a social point of view, with all the sacrifices that the Government has been obliged to ask for, is inseparable from the governance of the Socialist Party. When you say that the government has no merit in this regard, I draw your attention to the following: when the Socialist Party came out of power, we were discussing — what could be a detail or something of little importance to you — whether Portugal could have a three-month loan. Now, right now, we're discussing 30-year-old loans!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u16	The difference is zero, it's times 10, sir! And it's from zeros to the right, because zeros to the left don't count anything. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Zeros on the left we know a lot, but they don't count at all. It is therefore a difference of zeros, and of zeros on the right side. That is why, Mr President, I would say-CL to you, calm and serenely, that, by avoiding common places, the idea is this: the Socialist Party is very optimistic and very confident, but perhaps you still need to pass on some tests, to present those proposals that we have not seen so far. We, in the CDS and most, are also very calm, we are in a calm conscience with what we have done, we are on the head and we have no problem in discussing, today or tomorrow, with the Socialist Party whatever.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u17	Mr Telmo Correia, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u18	I conclude, Madam President, by saying only the following: what a strange thing it is to hear here always is the Socialist Party accusing the government and the majority of electoralism at the same time that makes electoral speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u20	They campaign open here and everywhere, but they say voters are the others. Mr President, in this respect, the only novelty on your part was that of your enthusiasm, your enthusiastic support to Antonio Costa that we have not heard so far. It was, in fact, the only novelty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u21	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the time of the regime. To reply, Mr. João Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u22	Madam President, I would reply in reverse by order of the questions that have been put to me and I hope to have the same tolerance in terms of time that the President has had for those who have asked me questions. Starting by responding to my personal friend and political opponent Telmo Correia, I will say that I am curious that Mr Telmo Correia wants Mr Telmo Correia, whether Mr Carlos Gonçalves has given me references I did not make. I could have done — perhaps, that means I should have — but I did not make any connection between the barbaric terrorist attacks that took place in Paris and the social situation. however, either Mr Telmo Correia or, above all, very emphatic, although also nice, Mr Carlos Gonçalves said so. Now, that is a round lie, it has no relation to the text I have read here and I can distribute it to you. As for the rest, there are many points on which we can understand at the level of all the benches and which need to underline, as was the case, the parliamentary delegation accompanying Mr President, who travelled to Paris, and very well, to participate in the protest against the barbaric attack on Charlie Hebdo and the kosher product supermarket. This does not mean that this understanding does not allow us to emphasise also, with regard to internal issues, the profound differences we have with one another. There is a culture of long ago on our land, which has historical traditions that are understandable—in which sometimes some extremes touch and that we socialists are always, in some way, victims—which is the culture of those who think they have a moral superiority over others or who have a vision that is inevitably better than that of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u24	Now, we have never put ourselves in that position and we have always rejected Manichaeism as a political analysis. I'm asking you to say it here again. We believe that Portuguese emigration—I have some knowledge of Portuguese emigration, particularly in France—has given and continues to make a very important contribution to France that we know, to the land of freedom that France, fortunately, remains and where Portuguese emigration, is good to underline, is a factor of stability. That is why we also have the responsibility for working with emigration, my comrade and my colleague Paulo Pisco, representing the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, was there in the protest against the barbarity of that attack. With regard to foreign policy issues, Mr Carlos Gonçalves and also Mr Telmo Correia, if we look at reality in a logic that does not want to be manichaistic and that rejects manicism, if we look at what is our foreign policy, what is our current Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what has been the role of our Minister for Foreign Affairs—and I want to be moderate, even in the logic of defending national interest— we must recognise that we, already with this Government, in another model, have had foreign policy, although very alibiated, as we know—and perhaps Mr Telmo Correia knows even more than I do... but at the moment we do not have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be proud of. We had to have, in this international context and in particular in this European context.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u26	You make a very yellow smile, but you have to recognize that what I'm saying is true. With regard to matters relating to historical heritage, Mr Telmo Correia, we have taken up our history in its entirety. On several occasions, either our leader António Costa, or my parliamentary leader and my comrade and friend Ferro Rodrigues, like his predecessor, my dear friend Alberto Martins, have stressed that we do not use the practice of hiding our previous leadership in that old Stalinist and Maoist logic in which the portraits of the wall were taken. And there have already been parties in Portugal who removed portraits from the wall, but it must be recognized that later they were placed again. And I have no doubt that Mr. Telmo Correia, who is an illustrious leader of the CDS with whom I have already had a very wide common journey, is pleased to assume what was the leadership of Prof. Freitas do Amaral in front of the CDS. Therefore, there is no need to have any kind of complexes in this matter. I turn to the question about François Hollande and the leadership of the French PS and the French Government, answering Mrs Cecilia Honorio. I must tell you that I do not know whether my position is a majority or not, it is probably even a minority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u27	Would you like to conclude, Mr. João Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u28	I shall conclude, Madam President. Since I was not touched by faith, I never looked at François Hollande as a messenger of the gods.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u29	But many believe in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u30	I look at him as a socialist who is committed to building, who has been unsuccessful, but has also had some good results. And I find it deeply unjust in this context to invoke the abstract and horrendous example of the former President of the United States, Bush, as regards how François Hollande reacted to this terrorist attack. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u31	It was absolutely admirable. I think that, generally speaking, Europe, from right to left, has turned to the behaviour of François Hollande. He had shown the same firmness to deal with the dictates of Mrs Merkel's directory in front of the European Union! in this regard, it is also necessary to stress what has to do with the budgetary treaty, which, as has been said so many times by my bench, both by its current leader and by the previous one, is being overthrown every day by the European Commission and by the various bodies of the Eurocracy based in Brussels. Whenever I have to dialogue with the PCP bench, I am obliged to quote the great authors who marked my youth. I have never been a communist, but once again I quote the Way to Victory, of Dr. Álvaro Cunhal and The Small-Burguese Radicalism of the Socialist Facada, which are two founding texts of the strategic intervention of the PCP, for which I have a historical respect that — they have to recognize – I have always stated here. But it is necessary to be cautious, because when you want to wage a great battle or when you want to make a revolution, you need to prepare it well and not move forward in a logic of petty-bourgeois radicalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] This is something that has to implicate us all in a logic that is not of exclusion. We say, once again, as Antonio Costa said several times and as others have already said before him—and I, modestly also said throughout my life—that we reject the democratically abstract process, the democratically abstract idea of the democratic arc. And we need to have the courage to take responsibility and not just stand in critical positions. That is what we want to do with you and with whom to reject the policy of austerity and poverty that they imposed on the Portuguese people. And I'm sure even on the right there will be people to do this fight with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u32	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal approved a reform of the IRS at the end of last year. It has been and has been the deepest and most comprehensive reform since the creation of this tax in 1989, i.e. 25 years ago. One of the first consequences of this reform was the publication of the new restraint tables in the source this week. With this publication, there are several things that have definitely been demonstrated. First of all, if no other advantage had this new IRS, and there are many, there is one that no one would ever take from it: it is that this new IRS brought the family to the center of debate and fiscal policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u34	The family quotient is a priority for the CDS, which has been defending it for eight years and is finally in force. in practice, it means that, with this new IRS, families with children will pay less tax and also means that families with lower incomes will have a proportionally higher reduction of their IRS. In fact, unlike many, more busy in confusing and fighting people than in really dealing with their problems, they insisted on saying during the debate on the IRS. It should also be said that the new IRS means that, in practice, single-parent families, contrary to what has also been said, are more protected. Finally, and summarizing, with the new IRS, more than one million families, that is, more than 1 million and 800 000 taxpayers will pay less tax. In fact, it is not by chance that the family quotient has been approved here in Parliament in a very, but even very consensual way, with a large majority and only with the exception of a party. But this reform is — and this must be said first of all — more just. She's a friend of the family, it's true, and she's trying to keep those who make the decision to have children. But much more than an incentive to birth is, above all, the recognition of a principle of more basic justice, which meets what taxpayers can actually pay and what their expenses really are. It is not so much a policy of incentive to birth, it is, yes, a fiscal system friendly to families and fairer. The state does not hinder and does not hinder birth. The family quotient system was created in France with very good results and proposed by the CDS in 2007 in the report of the birth mission group, and since then it has been a priority for us in all electoral programmes and posters. Of course, it was also in the current Government's Programme and therefore it was naturally included in the mandate of the IRS Reform Commission. In fact, certainly also very influenced by the PSD working group for birth policy in Portugal, with different solutions but with very similar concerns. Finally, the family quota was adopted by this Government in the context of the reforms of the IRS and environmental taxation. the family quotient joined particularly important simplification objectives in a very complex system, such as ours, as well as the purpose of social and geographical mobility. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the withholding tables in the published source take into account the tax that is really due in 2015 and demonstrate well that we are indeed facing an effective tax breakdown for families with children and families with lower incomes. Let us look at a few concrete examples to see what we are talking about. For example, a taxpayer with a gross annual income of €8400, corresponding to a monthly income of about €600, in 2014 about 5 % of its income was retained each month. Now, there is no longer any retention in the source and this taxpayer ceases to discount every month 5 % of its income. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] With the new IRS, about 120,000 families will be exempt from tax payments, with an increase in the minimum of existence. Another concrete example: a couple with two children, with an annual gross income of €16 000, will have an increase in income available per holder of € 280. If we are talking about a single parent family, also with two children and the same gross annual income of €16 000, the increase in income available will be €518 annually. It should be noted that families who do not have children, or ascendants, because this regime also applies to those who have ascending positions, either because they cannot or because they do not want, are not harmed. A last example, also very concrete: a family with an already higher gross annual income of €32 000, and a child, will have an increase in income available of €252. If it is a single parent family, the increase in income will be €322. All these examples are very concrete and very demonstrative of a new fiscal policy, but they also reveal other aspects. The first aspect is that the context in which we are today is economic growth, in which, either through a continuous increase in exports, which beats records year after year, as we have seen, either through the stabilization of consumption after a period of much sharp contraction, we have been able to create the basis for starting to see some relief in the concrete life of the Portuguese. The second aspect is that both this growth and this relief are a reflection of the responsibility, merit and sacrifices of the Portuguese, and not a repetition of the mistakes of the past. Portugal has been able to show that it is capable and, therefore, we can now speak of a real change. A paradigmatic example of the long way of credibility that the Portuguese have travelled is the fact that Portugal placed EUR 2000 million yesterday, 30 years ago, in an operation in which demand has largely surpassed the supply. It was the second time in the History of Portugal that an issue of Treasure Obligations was held at 30 years. And they ask some of the gentlemen. Members: "And then? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So I think that for all of us who unfortunately realize well and in a very bitter way what a country means is not able to go to such markets—that they are not an abstract thing, but that they were a very concrete thing in the sacrifices that we had to do to get Portugal out of the sad situation in which the Socialist Party has left it—I think we all understand the great meaning of having been able to make an issue like yesterday. Of course, we all know that we still have a long way forward, but today we look at him with more hope, with more strength and, above all, with much more reason to believe that we are capable and that we will reach a good port. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u35	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, Mrs Meireles, wrote to ask for clarification. Deputies João Galamba, PS, Duarte Pacheco, PSD, Pedro Filipe Soares, BE, and Paulo Sá, PCP. I have the indication that Mrs Cecilia Meireles will answer two questions. Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u36	Mrs President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, said here that the majority has put the family back in the center of fiscal policies. Allow me to qualify for your statement. What the CDS does is put the family at the center of these policies, but since it does not have low incomes, because, if there is anything that this tax reform guarantees that a rich child is worth more than a poor child. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We look at the majority's birth policy, which began in 2011: emigration, rising unemployment, cuts in wages, increasing working hours, cutting holidays, decreasing labour rights, difficulty in access to health, degradation of access to education. All this, Mrs. Member, affects Portuguese families! So when the CDS talks about families it is good to keep in mind everything—and it was, unfortunately, a lot— that has hurt Portuguese families in recent years. The CDS and PSD have objectively degraded the lives of Portuguese families in these three years and is not with small migalhas, which are, above all, for families with higher incomes, which will correct the harm they have done to Portuguese families. This evil, Mrs Deputy, will not be eliminated by this reform of the IRS. Madam Member, what does the CDS say to the more than 30,000 families who have lost access to social income? What does the CDS tell the more than 40,000 children who have lost access to RSI? What does the CDS say to all these families? It says it will continue to worsen the lives of these families, because in this State budget they say they will cut more 100 million euros of social benefits, which will mainly affect children and families. So when the CDS talks about families it is good to keep all families in mind and not just a few. When we look at the IRS, there are more than 50% of Portuguese people who do not pay IRS, therefore, a birth policy centered on IRSExclui, right at the head, 50% of the families. But to the 50% of the Portuguese people who pay IRS what the CDS has to say to them is: "We will support the more money they have". The honourable Member has set an example here. Allow me to give some, too. First example: a couple with a child and with 2000 € monthly income you will see your collection come down 294 € per child. The same couple, exactly the same couple, who has double the yield, that is, 5000 €, will see your collection come down 600 €. So a son of a rich man is worth more than a son of a poor man.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u37	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u38	I will now finish, Madam President. Second example: a couple with two children, with 2000 € of income, will see their collection coming down 294 € per child, but the same couple, with 5000 € of monthly income, will see their collection coming down 625 € per child. Mrs. Member, for the Socialist Party, a son of a rich man is worth the same as a son of a poor man. The State should try to make birth policies that benefit all, especially those that need the most. Unfortunately, what most CDS and PSD have to say is exactly the opposite, and this is absolutely unacceptable, especially in a scenario of poverty, income cutting and dismantling of the social state. With the Socialist Party this policy will not continue. We hoped that a party supposedly inspired by Christian democracy would realize this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u39	I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to say that you have not abused the Bureau's generosity in relation to the times. This is addressed to all the Members who speak, not only to Mr. João Galamba. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u40	Madam President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I congratulate you on bringing to this House something that is not political-political, but it is a matter that concerns people's lives and that concerns the families of many and many Portuguese people who, by virtue of this government measure, will see their income improved. It is not a matter that should be targeted here only by political chicana, as are often the statements of the opposition parties, but it is a matter that concerns the day-to-day citizens, and that deserves our consideration. Mrs. Member, I have two questions to ask you. The first is considered that the sacrifices that have been asked to the Portuguese over the past three years result from the responsibility of this majority, or if they are, before, the responsibility of the irresponsible socialist government, which has led the country to remain on the brink of bankruptcy and which has had to be called the troika to protect Portuguese politics and the government of Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It's just that we have to tell people this more and more. Were sacrifices required? They were, but the responsibility of these sacrifices cannot be directly induced to this government, but rather to whom, in an irresponsible way, ruled Portugal and brought the troika into our country. I'm going to ask you a second question. We are experiencing a moment of economic growth, after years of recession— last year, in 2014 the economy will have grown by about 1 % and this year, forecasts, whatever they are, say that we will grow more than in 2014 — because we are achieving budgetary consolidation, because the economy has clear signs of recovery, with retail sales rising, with interest in beating historical minimums, since there is accounting in our country. For all these reasons, and when we are successful in debt-taking, I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, whether or not it would make sense that these macroeconomic results were also perceived by the population and that, therefore, the Government would take measures that would send the good news to citizens, whether they were the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in minimum pensions, the end of the ESC for the generality of pensions, the return of 20 % of the income withdrawn in the pay cuts to public officials and, of course, the reduction of the IRS to families. In the face of all this good news, we feel concern and Azedume by the opposition and the PS. The question is therefore very clear: does this not mean concern for the Portuguese to feel that this governance has yielded results and that these results are perceived by them with the improvement of their living conditions? This is what concerns the opposition, but this is not what concerns us, because we want the good for Portugal and for the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u41	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u42	Madam President, first by thanking, of course, the questions that have been put to me. In reply to Mr Galamba, first of all, I would say that we had a moment here that I would say—and I say this in a version of almost friendship—that was almost an electoral tape, in its most radical version and that takes us away. I understand the heat of approaching the elections and that there are several factions in the PS. And I always agree with any one, you gentlemen are apparently unable to understand and there are always factions for all tastes and spells.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u43	But what are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u44	I would like to know if this more radical version of the IRS, which presented, is the official version of the PS, because if we say that this reform is for those who have the most possessions and who pay the IRS is a minority, because most Portuguese don't pay the IRS, then that takes us away. So what the PS is saying to people is very simple: that any IRS discharge, whatever it is, harms those who have the least, and that means that the PS thinks that you should never download the IRS. Therefore, it is appropriate that they decide if they even want to take this radical version to the end, because, quite frankly, it is said that a low IRS for those with children is to favour the richest, because the poorest do not pay IRS is an idea of fiscal policy that, even for the PS, seems to me a bit too radical.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u46	But perhaps what justifies this most enthusiastic moment, let us say so, of the PS is the fact that the publication of the IRS retention tables—which, in fact, will already be felt in next month's wages—will leave the whole PS propaganda naked that this was a reform for the richest and that the poorest would not feel it and, even, the version, more in the field of absolute fiction, that the children of the richest are worth more than the children of the poorest. Well, these IRS retention tables will show that none of this was true. They will show that families with lower incomes will have a percentage higher discount than families with higher incomes. They will also show that, contrary to what you said, single-parent families will benefit more. the PS may not seem important, but for us, the middle class, which is part of many and many Portuguese, the middle class that works, which contributes, it is this middle class, and I therefore reply to Mr Duarte Pacheco — who now deserves to feel this relief. And it deserves to feel that relief in what it takes every month. It is precisely this relief that you can feel and it is for her, in particular, that this reform is done. They will tell me that it is not a birth policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u47	That's exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u48	Mr. João Galamba, if I had listened to what I said, not starting from your prejudices but starting from my words, I had noticed that, in my speech, I was taxfully expressed that, in fact, it is not a policy of birth...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u49	What about family? It's not for the family either!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u50	...and family. It is simply the State not to disturb those who make the decision to become a family. It does not mean obviously that someone will decide to form a family because of this policy. That's obvious. But we believe, probably contrary to what you mean, that the State, before the decision of someone to have children, must recognize this decision and, above all, must not disturb it and not harm it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u51	The next question is by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u52	Madam President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I have followed your initial speech, the answers you have now given to the questions that have been asked to you and I must tell you that your announcement of the new IRS does not go through with reality. Is the new IRS presented by Mrs Gaspar with this first question: is this Government's IRS the heir to Victor Gaspar's "great tax increase"? And is it or not, in this new IRS, after all, the old IRS of the brutal increase in taxes? in a simple way, I ask you directly: what has this government done, with regard to the IRS on families? Will Portuguese families pay with this new / old IRS more in 2015 than they paid in 2012? Yes or no? A family that has an income of €16 000 and one or two children, will pay more IRS in 2015 than it paid in 2012? Yes or no? The answer is simple: with this government, pay more. With this IRS, pay more. With the family quotient, now introduced, pays more. So this reform of the IRS that the majority and the government have brought the debate, what we see is that the inheritance of Vítor Gaspar remains the chancellor and the stamp of the government. Therefore, Portuguese families pay more IRS. We could ask another question: do taxes in general pay less or pay more? Just listen to what Moreira da Silva says. Moreira da Silva, Minister of this government, almost a bit amused because it seems to have been forgotten with this propaganda of the IRS, which the Government's CDS seems to want to do, said: « Don't talk about the IRS without talking about the green tax, because it is possible only any stir in the IRS because there is a green tax ». Now, here we see the two sides of this coin: they pay more than they paid in 2012 in 2015. And they pay a lot more taxes in 2015 than they paid in 2012, just the year after this government took office. And why? Because— Moreira da Silva tells us—there are, in fact, more taxes and green taxation is another burden on families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u53	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u54	I conclude, Madam President. And here are flat rates, which charge all equally, having more or less income. That is why the last question I leave to you, Mrs Deputies, is whether there is in fact a new reform of taxation, which is more familiar with families, with this government. And from there, if that CDS, which was the « taxpayer's CDS », can respond to those people who voted in it and can now tell them that in 2015 they will pay less tax than they paid in 2011, when the CDS said it was a tax bill that took away the families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u55	The next question is from Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u56	Madam President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, right at the beginning of her political statement, she said, and I quote, "The families with children will pay less taxes. Now, this is not simply true. All families will pay more taxes in 2015 than they paid in 2012. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u57	The Government and the majority have repeated, until exhaustion, that this reform of the IRS is a family-friendly reform and try to focus the entire discussion around the family quotient, to divert attention from this unquestionable fact: the Government in 2013 imposed a brutal increase of IRS. And, having announced at the time this increase in tax as temporary, the government intends to maintain it, it intends to perpetuate it. Yesterday, Mrs Cecília Meireles, at the hearing of the Court of Auditors, confirmed that in 2013 the tax revenue, based on IRS, increased 35 % — are accounts of the Court of Auditors — giving a value to what is the brutal increase in taxes imposed by the Government in 2013. We have already challenged the PSD, the CDS, the Government, to present a concrete example, a single example that is a family member, a taxpayer, a family member who goes to pay less taxes than he paid in 2012 in 2015. And the majority — PSD and CDS — have so far not been able to find a single example, because they know that all families, with or without children, will pay more taxes in 2015 than in 2012. And what is required, Mr. President and Mrs. Members, it is the reversal of this brutal increase in taxes, which took place in 2013 and which resulted in an increase of more than EUR 3200 million in taxes, paid by workers, the people and the families. And the honourable Member has to explain the Government's option to, at the time of saying that this enormous increase in tax was temporary, to want to keep it and to perpetuate it. And you have to explain how the government continues to want to crush the workers, the people and the families with taxes, at the same time that it did an IRC reform, reducing the tax paid by companies and reducing the tax revenue, because the honourable Member knows that in the first 11 months of 2014 according to official data, the revenue of IRC decreased by 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u58	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u59	I conclude now, Madam President. It is this option of the Government to maintain a brutal tax burden on labour income, while at the same time favouring large capital, which the Government has to explain. These are the explanations that Mrs Deputy has to give and not come here with propaganda, say falsehoods, say that families will pay less IRS, when Mrs Deputy knows very well that all families will pay more IRS in 2015 than they paid in 2012. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u60	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u61	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions asked and I begin by answering Mr Paulo Sá. Mr. Member, I would hardly go on the day that it was the PCP deciding what I came here to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u63	I come here to say what I understand. [[PCP protests.]] I know that you will be used to the countries where the Communist Party decides what people say and think. But here, no. Here, it's me who decides what I say. Therefore, I would like to tell you that, with what Mr has classified as falsehoods, I think you will have a problem. It's just that people will get their salary...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u64	And they're going to compare with what they paid in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u65	...and they'll prove the retention. And so when you heard the honourable Member say that the next month they would pay more than they paid in that month and prove that they would pay less, you will realize who was trying to beat them, you will understand. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would all like — and from this point of view we would all agree — that it would be possible to pay less and less taxes, or even no one, and that the State would lend more and more things, that would be very good. But it is not by chance that this does not happen in any country in the world. That is simply not possible — except in those countries which have extraordinary natural wealth, which is not our case. We know—and this majority certainly never hid it—that, yes, the margin of manoeuvre to lower taxes is very short.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u66	But they went down to the big companies! IRC has been downloaded twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u67	And, yes, this reform has been carried out in a strict framework of fiscal neutrality. That was never hidden, no one ever tried to hide it. But there is also a factor to which Mr. Members, however they try to fight, confuse or hide, cannot escape: it is that, when they receive their next salary, the Portuguese with children and seniors in charge who pay IRS and who discount the IRS, they will proceed to discount less for the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u68	Of what? You compare to what year?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u69	... and, in the case, 120 000 families will pass by until they discount nothing for IRS and 1, 8 million taxpayers will pay less IRS in 2015 than they paid in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u70	What about 2012? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u71	And as far as the ladies are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen try to confuse and fight this... [[BE's protests.]] But, it's curious, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are waiting for what? Do I confess that we live in difficult times? But sometimes someone has hidden here that we live in difficult times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u72	Tell me the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u73	...and that we would like it to be possible to lower taxes much more? I'm sure we'd like that! But there's someone here who said no?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u74	But they've increased brutally!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u75	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are trying to do something that is obvious something that is hidden. It's not hidden! There are obvious things. But it is also obvious that it is not possible to do what you say without having very unfavorable consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u76	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u77	It is that if what you say doesn't work well in any part of the world, it will certainly be for some reason. Don't you think so, sir? It seems to me that it's obvious and that it's logical.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u78	You've missed the arguments to talk about the IRS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u79	If you are ashamed of your history, I am not ashamed of my own! If I had yours, I would have, too, but in this case, I don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u80	It's better than the 2012 argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u81	So you can use all the arguments you want, but I'm telling you one thing: the Portuguese will receive the next salary and on that day you will understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u82	They are paying more than in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u83	... that you tried to beat them, but that's a reality. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u84	The political declaration of the CDS-PP is concluded here. The next political statement is from the CFP. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unemployment is, for the worst reasons, the most significant result of this government's political project and the policy of the CEECs and troika, namely, impoverishment, exacerbation of exploitation, attempt to destroy labour and social rights. In fact, unemployment is not a collateral damage to any adjustment. Unemployment is a pressure factor on wages, it is an instrument to reduce labour costs, it is a blackmail for those who still have jobs and a despair for those who survive day after day without work. The evidence that this PSD/CDS Government is committed to creating more unemployment is the insistence on redundancies in the Public Administration, through the falsely referred to as « requalification », created by the PS / Socrates Government. But yesterday the Government announced a long-term unemployed internship programme designed in accordance with the electoral concerns of the PSD and the CDS, which also confirms that the Government is committed to directly contributing to the replacement of employment with rights for precarious employment, to the direct reduction of wages and, above all, subsidizing this reduction of wages with social security money. They announce this: if you are over 31 years old, you are unemployed and enrolled in the employment centre for at least 12 months and have never been involved in another IEFP internship program, you can be the happy one contemplated with a professional internship. And they still pay you a bag that goes from 419 € to 692 €, eventually food allowance and maybe insurance of work accidents. With all this, should trainees still be grateful to the government for the precarious situation they are subject to? So, do workers have to thank the government for being placed in companies to take up permanent jobs and receive a « scholarship », without the right to link and pay to which they are entitled? Moreover, the "buy" is not paid by the company where trainees work and who benefit from their work, but is paid almost entirely for social security, i.e. by the taxes and discounts of the workers, including the trainees themselves! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. Businesses, instead of guaranteeing decent jobs, benefit from almost zero jobs paid by the State. Trainees must be subject to a low level of work and, after six and nine months, they return to unemployment. The Government subsidizes companies with taxpayers' money, humiliates the unemployed and kills them conveniently to unemployment numbers in order to be able to advertise the success of their policies, as in fact it recently denounced the Banco de Portugal by claiming that one third of the employment on behalf of another, created in the third quarter of 2014, corresponds to professional stages. This is a false propaganda solution to a very serious problem in the country — indeed, as the government has done in claiming that the rate of permanent recruitment after the completion of a stage is 70 %. Since November the PCP has repeatedly demanded this data and we have never received a response, certainly because it is only propaganda and demagogy without any real basis. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these stages, courses and training mask unemployment statistics, statistically reduce the number of unemployed workers, but do not create any prospect of effectively solving the problem. in our country there are people who have survived for years, I repeat, for years, in this carcel of precariousness: unpaid internships, professional internships, employment-insertion contracts, vocational training courses. And it's not worth coming up with the swindled conversation that's worth more a stage than unemployment. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is right employment. And only those who use these trainees can use this type of argument. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the precariousness of employment is the precariousness of the family, it is the precariousness of life, but it is also the precariousness of training, qualifications and professional experience, it is the precariousness of the productive profile and productivity of work. For this reason, the CFP argues that combating unemployment is inseparable from combating precariousness and therefore we have presented concrete solutions that have been successively rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. That is: the guarantee in law and compliance with the principle that a permanent job is an effective work link; the definition of a national plan to combat precariousness in public administration and in the private sector; the conversion of all professional stages, employment-inclusion contracts and false green receipts into effective contracts when they meet permanent needs; strengthening the punitive and inspection capacity of the Working Conditions Authority, in particular by contracting the appropriate number of inspectors to combat such illegalities; the criminalisation of the use of false green receipts and the reversal of the burden of proof in the conversion of this type of contracts into effective contracts; The amendment of the Labour Code to combat the abuse of long-term contracts for permanent needs. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We already know what arguments will come from the PSD and the CDS regarding unemployment and precariousness, but workers can count on the Portuguese Communist Party to block this path of backwardness and dehumanization of work. We count on the mobilization and struggle of workers for the defeat of the government and this policy for the construction of a patriotic and leftist policy, for employment with rights, for a more just and sovereign country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u86	To ask Mrs Rita Rato, the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have been asked questions. Deputies Nuno Sá, of the PS, Maria das Mercês Soares, of the PSD, and Mariana Mortágua, of the Block de Left. Mrs Rita Rato informed the Bureau that she wanted to answer one by one, so Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is very relevant. We will have to have a deep and very serious debate on the use of professional stages by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which will have to take account of what they are doing, with what might be a good measure, but which is being used in a way, I would say, distorted and with clearly electoral objectives. For the Socialist Party, the employment model is not a model of professional internship behind professional internship. Traineeships are an instrument to support employment. What is happening is, on the one hand, a problem of selectivity in resources that apply to support the internships and, on the other hand, an even deeper problem of sustainability. What the government desperately seeks is to reduce the statistics on unemployment numbers only in arithmetic. Now, with regard to Mr President's phrase 'to fuck the elections' — it was the same as he did — this measure proves exactly the opposite. It is the economy that sustains and ensures jobs. In fact, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment said, and I quote, "It is not the State that can create jobs", but it is the State that subsidizes employment, and much. Who should sustain and ensure employment is the real economy, which is not doing so. There is no net job creation. from there the 13, 9 % unemployment in November, and there have already been two months in which the unemployment rate has risen, because the stages and other reasons will contribute to raising the numbers of unemployment misfortune. What we find in this measure is a very deep problem for Portuguese society. When workers start a stage, at the end of the stage where are they going? We would like them to stay in employment, but they don't stay, and there are studies that indicate that the employability rate of the internships has decreased, and much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u88	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u89	I shall conclude, Madam President. The employability rate of the internships has decreased, why? Because the economy doesn't support employment. The survey into the investment of the National Institute of Statistics says this very much: the main concern of companies and the obstacle to investment is the breakdown and the lack of prospects for sale and therefore internal demand. I conclude, Madam President, with the contradiction of this Government. It is clear that on the same day that the Government propagated a new internship programme and in a hearing the Minister says how it will fire 700 social security workers — the « cherry on the cake» happened at the end of that day, all the same day — the PSD spokesperson Marco António Costa, came to consider that the process of re-qualification under way in social security falls within the reformist spirit of the government and must extend to all other ministries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u90	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. You've used almost twice as much time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u91	Finally, Madam President, with this expression: Marco António Costa announces direct unemployment of more workers in the Public Administration, which causes a decrease in the demand and loss of income of families, which affects the private sector and the economy, which cannot invest or grow, and which leads to these stages, Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. Members, they have no sustainability and do not solve any problem of unemployment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u92	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u93	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, said that the model of internships is not the right one. It is not in fact in 2015 as it was not in 2013, as it was not in 2014, neither in 2011, nor in 2010, nor in 2009. The model of the use of internships to provide for the permanent needs of public administration services and private sector companies is an illegal model that leads to precariousness and is based on the use of this mechanism a deep and ideological conviction of successive governments for the devaluation of work. Therefore, the CFP condemns, as it has done here, the illegal use of this type of contract. We must not fail to point out that, unfortunately, the PS had had the opportunity to deliver on concrete proposals that we have brought here, it has chosen not to do so in its intervention, but it would be very important to do so in order to clarify the waters between those who are fighting unemployment and precariousness and those who are defending the instrumentalization of unemployment to aggravate exploitation. There are concrete questions on which we agree on the diagnosis. But time is a commitment to concrete solutions to people's lives and unfortunately at key times when they decided on matters relating to the conversion of employment-inclusion contracts, when they were permanent jobs, when it came to combating false green receipts and unacceptable situations of false independent work, when it was about the limitation in the Labour Code, to the eventual recruitment, unfortunately, I repeat, the Socialist Party did not fall to the left side, fell to the right side. from the Portuguese Communist Party we will continue in this fight, which we understand to be of civilization because it is by valuing work, and we will see clearly which side the Socialist Party must fall, because it has to fall into practice, cannot only fall into speech. The speech does not solve people's lives and it is at the particular time when measures to combat the precariousness that we show which side we are on, if we are on the workers' side, if we are on the side of the employers' side. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u94	The next question is from Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares, the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u95	Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares ( PSD ) : — Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Rita Rato on bringing this matter to debate at the right time. It is true that democracy lives from the difference of opinion, but there are limits on the use of demagogy so that we can express our differences of opinion. Madam Member, we have been talking about people who have been unemployed for over a year or several years, that is, long-term unemployed, therefore, with numerous difficulties of reintegration into the labour market. Madam Member, at a time when the country has suffered so much from wrong governance that has led us to the pre-bankrota, at a time when the economy has suffered, has lost jobs, and is now starting to re-emerge and generate jobs — and you know very well that the economy is generating new jobs — whether or not you agree, as well as your bank, that professional internships and active employment measures are an opportunity for these people who have been inactive for years now to return to the labour market, to have an experience in the context of work, to acquire new skills? Talk to these disengaged people and see their desire for an opportunity to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u97	Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares ( PSD ) : — These active employment measures do not replace jobs; they are measures aimed at facilitating entry into the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u99	Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares ( PSD ) : — Madam Member, who creates jobs is not the government decrees, who creates jobs are the companies, with a growing economy. that will require all incentives for this economy. We cannot in any way devalue a measure that aims to help those who have the greatest difficulties to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u100	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u101	Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares ( PSD ) : — Is it better to be registered in employment centres, without any activation, without any response, to receive unemployment benefit, or even without it? No, no, no. Of course not. You don't want that. PSD does not want that. It therefore welcomes the Reativar measure taken by the government which supports the long-term unemployed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u102	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u103	Madam President, you have asked a specific question to which I am going to answer, but I would like to refer to another question first. The honourable Member said that it is not the government that creates jobs. No, it's the government that destroys jobs. And this government has destroyed thousands of jobs in the Public Administration, because it has destroyed and privatized public services and has thus dismantled and violated its constitutional obligation to fulfil the social functions of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u105	Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares ( PSD ) : — That is not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u106	Therefore, as regards the need to create jobs, this government does not create, this government destroys, as it will necessarily do in social security with about 700 workers. It is also important to say that democracy is not just everyone's opinion. Democracy is the existence of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, which are respected. Of course, the right to employment with rights, Mrs. The right to employment with rights was a conquest of the democratic regime, and what you are doing is financing companies to have workers on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u108	And that is a deep disrespect for the lives of workers. Mrs. Member, we'll talk to them. You know what they tell us? They say they respond to permanent needs, which they need because, when they leave, another trainee comes. And so it is, one behind the other, because they effectively respond to permanent needs. What we understand is that if, in fact, there is a permanent need, there must be an effective employment contract. People cannot be used as disposable material, people have the right to have stability in their professional life and their family life. No one can want to think about being a family if you don't know what tomorrow is like. People cannot have dreams every six months, people must dream of rights that are enshrined in the Constitution and which are based on the progress that this country has built. As for this matter, I'd like to say something else. The PSD always puts people's hands on the decision to choose between the bad and the bad, as if there was no alternative. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is right employment;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u109	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u110	...the alternative to the internship is not an employment-insertion contract, it is a contract of work with rights and a fair wage. That is why Portuguese workers will continue to struggle for the defeat of this government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u111	The next question is from Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u112	Madam President, Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic, because it is central when we debate the economy, it is central when we debate society, it is central when we debate the rights of work, it is central when we debate democracy and the future of the country. The right — the PSD and the CDS — continues to present the theme of the internships as if we lived in 2000 and we had an unemployment rate of 3, 9 %, as if having an internship was still a choice, as if following an internship there was always a job and as if the problem of unemployment was the lack of experience, the lack of qualifications or the fact that these people are very disintegrated. The problem of unemployment is no longer the lack of experience or qualifications, the problem of unemployment is that there are no jobs. This is the central problem of unemployment that no stage can extinguish. But this is not the country in which we live, we do not live in a country with a rate of 3, 9 % unemployment, which was the rate we had in 2000. Austerity has pushed thousands of people into unemployment. And it was not an exogenous crisis, in which no one has responsibility, which pushed people to unemployment, was austerity practised by the troika agreement, signed between PS, PSD and CDS and implemented by PSD and CDS, which created unemployment. The PSD and CDS have, indeed, responsibility for unemployment which today has taken the lives of thousands of people in this country. Today, work isn't right. Emigration is right, unemployment is right, poverty is right, work is the least right thing a person faces and today has in his life. Today, internship is not a choice. The stage is the despair of those who live in internships without ever getting to be a worker, never having an effective job in life and never knowing what counts; it is the despair of everyone: by the government, because this reduces unemployment statistics. In fact, it is taken advantage of by a government that says that what creates jobs is not decrees, but the government actually creates decrees, that create internships, that prevent jobs from being created, because these trainees meet the needs that the government and the State have to have public servants. That is why it creates, by decree, the stages in which people are enslaved to work on the stock market in the state rather than creating jobs, as should be done. As such, they should not be proud to say that they do not create jobs, they should create jobs, yes, and end the precariousness within the State. In addition, this despair is taken advantage of by the private, who uses blackmail on all to come down the wages of those who work, to create more precariousness in the future. In fact, this despair is taken advantage of by a private who uses the state money, who uses the money of our taxes to hire, without ever needing to create a job because this stage is subsidized by the state, by our taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u113	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u114	I shall finish, Madam President. Each job corresponds to a wage and a contract. How can this government and this majority announce this wonderful new world if not this basic principle have been able to respect? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u115	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u116	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, pointed out, and well, that professional internships are another instrument for aggravating the working and living conditions of so many workers in our country. This is based on a political strategy and an ideological option to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. Public services and companies in this country, after there is a dismissal, either by termination of the job or by non-renewal of the contract, use an intern to supply that permanent need. This is illegal and does not comply with what is fundamental, which is, in the event of a permanent need, to have an effective contract. To understand clearly the dimension of the backwardness we are living in, I would like to call on two examples. One example is a company whose internship offer says the following : « Description of the offer: curriculum in Danone, equipment security area; Start date: immediate; Duration : three months; Target courses: engineering, hygiene and safety at work; Unpaid traineeship, with weekly box offer of 24 yoghurts and lunch in the factory restaurant'. This is an example of the value of work for the PSD and CDS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u117	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u118	Another example I want to invoke is the NetEmployment website and says: "Professional internships for carpentry in stands and exhibitors. We are looking for carpenters and aluminum sawmills to work in the stand area». In addition, they are entitled to an internship. Should these people thank the government? The gentlemen. Do you honestly think these people should thank the government or demand dignity in their lives and fight for a fairer country? from the PCP side, here we will be on the side of dignity in the lives of all and of each one, because this is a project of backwardness and does not count with the PCP for its aggravation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u119	The CFP's political declaration is concluded here. For a political statement, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is four years since the right majority implements a radical austerity programme. On the total failure of this policy, from debt to employment, from the deficit to the promises of a new economy, there is no longer much to add, and that is not the issue that brings us here today. Let us concentrate our attention on how, not content with the forced impoverishment of the country, PSD and CDS have justified all austerity with a moralistic speech saying that, in one of the countries with the lowest wages in the euro area, we all live above our possibilities. A thousand times distorted figures on a supposed fat state that exists only in mystifications on the right were taken as unquestionable truths. The alleged resource buffer, which are public transport companies, was one of the flags on the right, in an ideological campaign against all public services. On the myth of private effectiveness, we are discussed after the overthrow of the empires of PT and the Holy Spirit, but the way PSD and CDS have spent years talking about the expense of transport companies already has much more to tell you. This supposed requirement on what is public and this heavy hand on workers conceals immense complacency to management practices, not to mention sponsorship, in these same companies. You understand! The dance of chairs between their mismanagement and the government speaks for itself. In this regard, we note the report of the Court of Auditors on the TGV. Then we learned what we never heard in the two audits requested by Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque. A swap contract, signed by Sérgio Monteiro as a representative at the height of a private consortium, generated losses of EUR 152 million. Worse: this same contract was redeemed by the State, which thus assumed all the losses resulting from the financial operation generated by Sérgio Monteiro in private. Who signed this operation by the State? That's right, they guessed : Maria Luís Albuquerque and Sergio Monteiro. This dance of the chairs, the real take there, puts in perspective the ingenuity of the concerns of « Olivia Patroa » and « Olivia Costureira ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u122	But in this story, we are all paying for the decisions of Sergio Monteiro, Secretary of State, about the financial engineering of Sergio Monteiro, manager. The Secretary of State, in his defense, says that the contract exists, not denying that it is ruinous, but that he has only signed it and never negotiated it. "I signed it but did not negotiate" is the new « smoke but did not inhale». We already realize that in the government some people seem to have learned from BES. The blame, he will still tell us, is for the doorkeeper and not for who, with his signature, will always be responsible for the decision he made. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « what is born wrong late or never straight ». Nothing in the contractswap process was transparent, starting with the obvious. at least four managers responsible for these bad contracts transferred from this beautiful experience to the PSD/CDS government and two were automatically resigned. From there, everything was led by the Government for a single purpose: to protect the current Minister of Finance, involved up to the neck in bad contracts in the REFER. A semantic discussion between toxic or exotic contracts, missing documents, modified contracts at the last hour, has been done to protect the Minister, a true judge at issue in this process. In fact, everything was done to safeguard the Minister and, you can see now, also Sergio Monteiro. Less than a year ago, he guaranteed Sérgio Monteiro, in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Celebration of Swaps Contracts, that none of these speculative contracts existed in PPPs ( public-private partnerships ). More: the Secretary of State also said, and I quote, that "even if there was a speculative swap, the risk was the private partner. The public partner would not pay a hundred more if there was a speculative swap». After all, the contract existed, it was the contract of the TGV, which was a PPP. And what Sérgio Monteiro forgot to say was that the risk was, in fact, private until Sérgio Monteiro passed it into the public sphere. In addition, it was also forgotten to say that the amount that no one was going to pay more eventually became EUR 152 million paid by all the taxpayers. Sérgio Monteiro, champion of ruinous PPPs for the state, as manager, is the same Sergio Monteiro who renegotiated these PPPs for the state. This complicity sums up three and a half years of government, which all demands those who have average wages of €800, all demands those who are in poverty, but then leaves and shares to guarantee the best part to the private. It says it is this millionaire dance of chairs to which PSD and CDS call « ethics in austerity ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u123	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Bureau registered Mr. Deputies Bruno Dias, PCP, Afonso Oliveira, PSD, and Ana Catarina Mendonça, PS. Meanwhile, Mrs Mariana Mortágua informed the Bureau that she intends to answer individually. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u124	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I greet her for the complaint, the warning and the references she brought here about this government's action and intervention in relation to the further disaster of the contractswap, which have already motivated a committee of inquiry, have already motivated a very thorough debate and have already motivated the denunciation of this government's disastrous attitude and conduct with regard to the famous cancellation of the contractswap in 2013. What we can hear and, more, read from the explanation of the current Secretary of State, Sérgio Monteiro, who is the same Sergio Monteiro, now perhaps a little older, who was manager of the consortium Elos— candidate for the high-speed railway project—and responsible for the financial part, since he was, at the time, director of a bank, the CaixaBI, is that he refers to the IGCP itself (Instituto de Gesão de Credito Público) the logic of the option that was maintained in order to continue the swap contract, which today has potential losses assessed at 152,9 million. The government now says that the option was ‘not to turn ‘potential losses’ into ‘real losses’ that would be effective if the financing package had not been transferred with the associated swap. Do not keep on seeking. ” It reminds the Government, in this regard, that if Parpublica maintains the funding transferred to the end, there is no loss for the company or the State (i.e. the potential losses of 153 million will be completely cancelled ) ; if different it would happen if the financial package was not taken advantage of: the potential loss would immediately become real loss and its cost immediately fell on the taxpayers. We ask, then, why is it that a year ago this same government has negotiated with banks the cancellation of 69 swap contracts resulting in the payment of EUR 1008 million to banks, precisely for the inverse reasons to which the government has now announced that it has maintained that swap contract? After all, what are we staying in?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u126	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u127	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — and I shall finish, Madam President, this question is now being asked, and that is why the CFP is now making a request to the Government for the technical details of this contractwap to be given to the Assembly of the Republic, because we have the right to know which criteria, even above all contradictory, are that the Government is following in relation to the management of swap contracts which have so much to talk about and so much to pay for.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u128	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u129	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, my grandmother uses a lot of an expression that is « between this and the visa nothing really exists», which is more or less what Mr. Secretary of State for Transport came here to explain the confusion of the swaps you signed when you were in private and which now comes to resign and transfer to the state when you are in public. The honourable Member raised a very important issue: why was it that last year, when we were here discussing, in an inquiry committee, a swap that had EUR 3000 million of losses, the government, this same government, decided to cancel that swap and hand it over to banks 1000 million euros or more? Banks that had been active in pressuring companies to hire speculative swaps and who knew perfectly that what they were signing and impinging on companies were toxic swaps—and this does not mean that there were no responsibilities on the company side, but banks were active in these negotiations. Even so, even with arguments and legal studies that said: « If contracts are cancelled, they impose a loss that is not legitimate on the State, they have been contracted in a different position and in a different relationship of forces, with a different relationship of information», the government said: « I do not cancel. I'd rather pay! », and preferred to pay EUR 1000 million to banks. In fact, the banks that hired these speculative swaps, however, were awarded for good work with advisors in the privatization of TTCs, with advisors in the New Bank... BNP Paribas is, among other banks, receiving money from the Portuguese taxpayers to analyze the sale of the New Bank. This is the way the Portuguese state has to reward! What is consistent with the inconsistencies of the Secretary of State and this government? It is because for years he said it was necessary to cancel the swaps because cancellation meant a loss to the banks; now, we cannot cancel the swap and it is necessary to transfer it because, by coincidence, when I transferred it, he is transferring a risk that was in private to the public. This is the reality! Sérgio Monteiro has negotiated a ruinous swap and the swap has associated losses. When the losses can explode, it passes into the public sphere. The same thing happened a few years ago: there were speculative swaps, there was the hypothesis that these losses were attributed to the private who traded them and to solve the problem went to the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u130	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u131	I will finish, Madam President. After all, in the inconsistencies of the Secretary of State there is even a very coherent line, which is that of the one who pays the damages, the taxpayers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u132	The next question is from Mr Afonso Oliveira, PSD. Please. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u133	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, what I have not said here and that it is necessary to remember, from the outset, that the serious problem with the swap contracts is that it was made during the period of the previous Government of the Socialist Party and, as you know, this Parliament — and well! — constituted a parliamentary committee of inquiry which was at the heart of the matter. I brought all the people who considered it to be fundamental to understand what was involved in these contracts. All parliamentary groups — the Socialist Party, the CFP, the Left Block — proposed anyone who wanted to go to the committee of inquiry. in the committee of inquiry, everything has been clarified, up to this subject which has now been reintroduced and, as the honourable Member said, there is nothing like the « really», nothing like reality. What the Left Block did today was to pick up on news that came out in the paper days ago, news that was perfectly known, and brought it back. As you know, in September 2013 the Minister for Finance clarified the parliamentary committee of inquiry that the contract was transferred to the Parliament — and the honourable Member knows that it was properly explained — was examined by the IGCP and sent to the Court of Auditors to be examined. In other words, this contract did not have the characteristics of the other complex contracts that were analyzed and cancelled by the Government. This was duly clarified in 2013, in 2014, but now, in 2015, they resolved to ask the question again. The Minister of Finance, in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, said the following - and I will read that there is no doubt about this: « The case of the Parliament is known and has already been explained in Parliament. There was a funding package that was prepared for the High Speed project,..." — which this government cancelled, and for the reasons which are known - «... which, however, for the reasons we all know, did not advance and, despite the existence of this swap within that package, the associated cost of financing, as it was from behind, of market conditions far more favourable than those that now exist, resulted in the Parpublica at a much better cost of financing than that which would be achieved » for the Government. This was explained in the Committee of Inquiry. [[PS protests.]] But the Minister said more: "In any case, the contract, the swap, in particular, was analyzed by the IGCP, which validated the contract of the package, including that product, in the sense that it does not represent problems. » That is, it was an interest rate coverage contract other than the other contracts. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, let me tell you this : you know very well that there is a loss does not mean that the contract is complex or speculative. A simple contract may have an incorporated loss. You know it's like that, but I didn't deliberately say it here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u134	It doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u135	So I didn't say it because it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u136	Mrs. President. — Would you like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u137	I will finish, Madam President. The honourable Member recovered a subject that was more than clear, but because it came to the newspapers, it was important to put it back here. however, the question is more than clear. The Left Block has no doubt about this issue, no one has, but it matters to bring it to this House again. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u138	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u139	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I am right to give you at least three aspects of your speech. It is true that the commission of inquiry was a wonderful ping-pong game between the PS and the PSD to determine who was most guilty in the cartel. [[PSD protests.]] It is also easy to conclude that both are guilty, because they were both ruling at crucial times for this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u140	Who solved this issue?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u141	There is a second argument in which you are right: it is also true that the Committee of Inquiry has served to clarify. I was no doubt left, I was very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u142	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u143	I heard anyone who wanted to hear, I read the documents I had to read, I drew the conclusions I had to draw, and my findings are as follows: there were toxic swaps. It is true that some were simple, but it is also true that most of the losses were speculative swaps, toxic, snowballs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u144	But this one wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u145	...unthinkable things that, when asked, business managers didn't know, they couldn't explain what they had signed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u146	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u147	... and had generated millions of euros of losses for the public record; it is true that these swaps were imposed by banks or contracted by pressure from business managers, who had no other form of financing, by ignorance, by ignorance, by negligence; and it is true that there was a renegotiation process that caused direct losses of EUR 1000 million to the state when they could have been cancelled. All of this has been clarified in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u148	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u149	It is unfortunate that these conclusions did not appear in the Committee of Inquiry report.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u150	They're in the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u151	It was an absolutely partial report on the responsibilities of the Minister for Finance and on the responsibility of the members of the Government in this matter. So, yes, he had a part of reflection that was important and was true, but it was whitening the government's action in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u152	That's demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u153	And that is not what you have said either, and it is unfortunate that you have not said it. But I'm going beyond the swaps, I'm going beyond this question, this TGV business, whether or not there was TGV, whether the swap was more or less speculative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u154	You wanted the TGV!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u155	How can the Portuguese people, how can the citizen, rely on a State, or on a State Secretary, or on a minister who is in private one day negotiating for the private and against the State and on the following day is renegotiating by the State against the private? That's the bottom line. It doesn't matter today's news, yesterday's news, yesterday's news, in the media or on television. This is the fundamental problem, it is the rotating door between private interests and the government, which has lasted for decades in this country and which is responsible for many of the economic and democratic problems we are experiencing today. This is the debate that needs to be done and this example is perfect, it is paradigmatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u156	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u157	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u158	The question we have left is this: how can one trust a state or a government that one day is on the side of the State and, the next day, is on the side of the private? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u159	The third question is from Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça, PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u160	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to begin by welcoming her for the intervention she made from the rostrum, but, as you know, she did not stand in the conclusions, she could not stay in the conclusions and we will not continue to play ping-pong games. Mr Afonso Oliveira, let us stop from euphemisms: what happened in the committee of inquiry, precisely one year ago, was a whitening of the performance of the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we already knew, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two years of inertia of this government to solve the swap problem that has doubled the potential losses of these contracts. What we already knew was that there were rulers of this government who in the past hired swaps.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u161	That's not what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u162	What we already knew, sirs. Members, it is only that there were rulers who contracted and who, by chance, resigned. What we know, even by the voice of Mr Afonso Oliveira, is that the swaps contracted by Maria Luís Albuquerque and by Sérgio Monteiro never have any problems and therefore survive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u163	That's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u164	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we didn't know—in fact, we couldn't know—and we now knew that, in the past, the current governor, Secretary of State for Transport, on behalf of the private, contracted a swap and got a problem in his hands when he dropped the TGV project and became a ruler. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there was a delay on her part: she did not benefit the State in this swap transfer; she benefited the private by transferring the liability of 153 million euros to the State to pay. So there was a lack of transparency, there was a promiscuity between the private sector and the public sector, and that could not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u165	They're facts! It's Portuguese money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u166	Mrs. Deputies, stop being moralistic. Let us talk about facts, and these are the facts. That's what the Court of Auditors said. Therefore, what is here is truly a promiscuity between those who have negotiated in private and those who arrive at the ruler and transfer responsibility to the State. We will all pay, but, Madam President and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the truth that I would like to leave this House is once again the reflection of the committees of inquiry. For one year the Government ignored the findings and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and by ignoring this year added to the potential losses, which doubled for two years of inertia, more damage, which everyone is paying. It is important to know at this time whether the Secretary of State for Transport will follow the same steps as those of his colleagues who have left the Government for hiring swaps. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u167	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u168	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I thank you for the two points you have focused on. First of all, we are not just going the way and the taste of social communication. There is a report from the Court of Auditors that alerts us to further this fact and, if necessary, the fact that the beneficiary would have been the State, of course the beneficiary was the private one. This was the coherence between this operation and the swaps operation one year ago, negotiated by Maria Luís Albuquerque, then State Secretary of Finance and meanwhile promoted— probably for its good performance in this matter! — the Minister of Finance! The honourable Member asked whether Mr. Secretary of State — and I reply very directly — had the right to continue as Secretary of State for Transport. My answer is this: neither the Secretary of State of Transport nor the Government. For a long time they lost credibility —... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u169	From this point of view of the Committee of Inquiry to continue to carry out its duties. If it were not for these scandals, if it were not for these business, if it were not for this rotating door, it would suffice the promises they made at the time of the election campaign and then what they did as rulers; it would suffice what caused the country, impoverishment, unemployment, despair. within the 40 seconds I still have, I want to address a central and important issue for the future, which is that of the transport swaps. Many of these swaps in transport were contracted because public transport companies were in a very fragile financial situation—and much of this is the responsibility of the PS when it was a government—because debts of public transport companies were hidden because public transport companies were subfinanced because conditions were withdrawn from public transport companies. And today, moreover, the PSD and the CDS — the majority — proceed in this strategy very effectively with the aim of privatizing companies, ending with the public transport service in Portugal. I think this swap issue also brings this reality to light. This was very clear in the conclusions and should make us think about how to finance public transport and protect public transport — and that is not what we are doing — for the sake of the economy and also of the public record, because this type of operations later has reflections on the future and much more expensive than if we had paid public transport in time and time, with means and investment, as we should have had in the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u170	We turn to today's last political statement, to what I give the floor to Mr Joaquim Ponte.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest news about the reduction of the U.S. military effect in the Lages Base has led to greater indignation and perplexity in the Azorian population, with a special impact on the third island. This is a very serious issue because of the negative impact it has on the region in social and economic terms. The complexity and dimension of the problem generated a broad consensus in the Portuguese State, which it is important to maintain and deepen, involving the regional governments and the Republic, the parties with governmental responsibilities and those in the opposition, labour, business and social institutions, as well as prominent members of the Congress of the United States, originating in the Portuguese communities, of predominantly Azorian descent. Attempts to de-responsibility in this area, with a view to achieving some electoral benefit, are unacceptable and do not help to solve a problem that afflicts and affects the Azores and the Azores. The Azores and their people go through very difficult times, which tend to get worse and are not compatible with demagogy and lack of seriousness in the treatment of relevant issues such as the one we bring here. In order for you to have a clear and substantiated idea of what I say, I leave only a few indicators that I think are a good witness. Unemployment in the Azores has reached the highest rate in the country — 15, 7 % — and young unemployment exceeds 40, 6 %. This is dramatic, in a region where seven of its nine islands experience very rapid desertification and aging. The Azores currently have the highest national rate of early school dropout — 34 % — as well as the highest rate of population aged 15 or more, with only basic education completed — 68 %. in the Azores there are 18 330 beneficiaries of social income for inclusion, representing 7, 4 % of the population — the highest national rate — and 8, 4 % of the total number of beneficiaries, when the national average is 2, 2 %. As for income, we have the highest national rate of households with monthly incomes of less than € 350 ( 57, 4 % of households ), and the highest rate of households with monthly incomes of less than € 530 ( 71, 4 % of households ). The region has a GDP of EUR 3 694 million and liabilities of EUR 3 461 million, equivalent to 93, 7 % of regional GDP. I bring these indicators, and they are just a few, which originate in the regional and national statistical services and in the Court of Auditors, with regret, concern and even some embarrassment, but to better understand the framework in which the issue of the Lages Base should be placed. The fragility of the situation must concern and hold all political rulers and actors, starting with the regional authorities, and does not allow us to stop fighting for this cause to the limit of our capabilities, in order to prevent the current news from happening as it emerged. We do not understand the speed with which a study prepared by the U.S. Department of Defense went into a decision, without apparently no negotiation with the Portuguese State. As we do not also realize, while for other military bases involved in identical effective reduction processes in the American and European territory, deadlines are set for the implementation of measures, which may reach 5 years, and, in the case of the Lages Base, if a time limit is set for the same purpose, which should not exceed the next fall. The PSD Parliamentary Group called for the presence of Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs and Mr. Ambassador of the United States of America in this House for hearings last Friday. We see ourselves in the positions taken by the Portuguese Government on this matter, particularly in the announced animosity resulting from unilateral decisions of the US administration and the consequences that must be withdrawn from here. But this firmness must be maintained and strengthened in order to achieve counter-shares that support the economy of the Azores, the Third Island and, in particular, the municipality of the Praia da Vitória, avoiding the use of emigration and the consequent impoverishment, ageing and depopulation of the municipality and the Third Island. If the planned reduction is fully achieved, it is estimated that in the coming autumn 25% of the active population of this municipality is unemployed and GDP is broken by 30 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u173	in a municipality where the active population surrounds the 9,000 inhabitants, we may be talking about a loss of 2000 jobs, direct and indirect. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at a difficult crossroads calling for the accountability and serious commitment of all in resolving this complex and painful situation. The measures announced undermine the national and regional interest and the good relations between the United States and the Atlantic, which we wish to maintain and strengthen. I am therefore sure that we will all be able to assume our responsibilities to minimize the damage that this process will cause. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u174	Mr Joaquim Ponte, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification and will then inform the Bureau if they wish to respond individually or together. To ask for clarification, Mr Carlos Enes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u175	Mr President, Mr Joaquim Ponte, said that the unity of all political forces is needed at the moment because of the issue being addressed here at the Lages Base. I would like to make it clear here that, in fact, for our part, we are committed to this effort, but in all this process related to the Lages Base, the Government of the Republic has fallen far short of its competition. for our part, we have repeatedly questioned the demands of the government and the answers have always been very vague. The excuse that diplomacy requires a certain degree of secrecy did not convince or convince the Azorians or the Portuguese in general. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the recent unilateral decision of the United States to drastically reduce the US quota and the Portuguese workers at the Lages Base represents a severe social and economic impact on the Third Island and on the City Hall of Victoria Beach. It also represents, and as Mr President of the Azores Government said very well, a monumental "strike" in the Portuguese State, to the extent that either Minister Paulo Portas or, more recently, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, reiterated that the outcome of this process would inevitably have consequences in the bilateral relationship between the two States. The truth, however, is that since 2012 US intentions have been known. In fact, the current majority PSD/CDS have olympically ignored, and twice the proposals put forward by the PS so that, at the state budget headquarters, a plan of economic revitalization for the Third Island would be guarded. They dropped this proposal during the 2014 State Budget discussion and recently made the Chumbá - her in the last Budget debate. in his recent visit to the Azores, Mr Prime Minister committed himself to the President of the Victorian Beach Chamber to give a concrete response by the end of the year to his proposals. You know, until today, nothing has come to the Beach House. The lack of government solidarity with the Azores has been a constant in this and other cases. Now, with the known decision, which seriously penalises the Azores and the Third Island, I would like to ask Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u176	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u177	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, I would like to ask the honourable Member if he does not think that the Government of the Republic should urgently implement an economic revitalization plan for the Third Island. To conclude, I would like to quote here a sentence...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u178	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u179	... of the Prime Minister or of the leader Pedro Passos Coelho, who recently said on the island of Pico : « The results shown by the Government of the Azores have shown a very large sense of balance and therefore in continuous budgetary balance». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u180	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u181	Mr President, Mr Joaquim Ponte, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to the Assembly of the Republic the theme of the Lages Base and the situation in which the respective workers and the economy of the Third Island stand before the unilateral decision of the United States to fire 500 Portuguese workers and withdraw 500 US military or civilian personnel serving at the Lages Base. I would like to express our concern at this situation here. The CFP Parliamentary Group shares all concerns regarding this matter. Obviously, for us, it is no reason to welcome the existence of an American military base in the Azores and not to be proud of the fact that the Lages Base has been associated with the announcement of the beginning of the Iraq War, for example, but there is an objective reality with which we are confronted, which is that the Lages Base is by far the largest employer of the Third Island. It is an objective reality with which we live, of course, and we are concerned about the jobs of Portuguese workers on the Third Island and the impact that the Lages Base has on the economy of the region. But we are also concerned that for many years now relations between the Portuguese State and the US authorities, with regard to the Lages Base, have been marked by American unilateralism. We are reminded that the United States authorities have failed to comply with the Labour Agreement of the Lages Base and have decided unilaterally on the definition of labour relations of the Lages Base, which is a concern. We are now faced with one more unilateral decision. What we now think is fundamental is that everyone assumes their responsibilities, that this Assembly of the Republic, as has already been decided, listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to know what is being spoken to the US authorities at diplomatic level, in the sense that the Third Island economy is compensated for the damage caused by this unilateral decision and compensation for workers who are dismissed. It is because it seems to us that the United States, after six decades of use of the Lages Base, cannot wash its hands, like Pilate, with regard to the situation arising from the unilateral decision to fire 500 Portuguese workers, and therefore this must be resolved. We do not understand how you are now talking about the unity that is necessary to have — and that is! — the convergence of efforts of the Government of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u182	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u183	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, there must be a convergence of efforts by the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Autonomous Region, of all, to safeguard these workers and the economy of the Region, but then we do not understand why the majority rejected the CFP's proposal to listen to the Minister of Economy on this matter. Do you understand that the Minister for Economics of the Government of the Republic has nothing to say about such a situation? Oh, my God! We do not understand how, on the one hand, you speak of unity here, but then the majority reject listening to the Minister for Economic Affairs! I don't know if it's because it's CDS and PSD doesn't want the Ministers of CDS... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Anyway, the gentlemen will say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u184	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u185	But we find it strange that the majority do not want to listen to the Minister of Economics or that the Government of the Republic, at the level of the Ministry of Economics, has nothing to do with the economy of the Third Island and with the support it needs to give to the workers and the economy of the Third Island at a time like this. I would like you to speak on that, too. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u186	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u187	Mr President, Mr Joaquim Ponte, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing this important issue to the debate, given your knowledge of it, including its connection to the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I believe that the positions defended by the opposition—even though I do not understand very well, honestly, what the Minister of Economy has to do with this, but in the end...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u188	Maybe that's the problem! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u189	But Mr António Filipe will be able to explain. It's just, sirs. Members, he was normally not the Minister of Economics who dealt with matters related to military bases. [[PCP protests.]] [[Maybe, only in Poland!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u190	in other political regimes could be like this, I don't know... [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] Mr António Filipe, if I allow myself to use my time in a parcimonious way, I would even like to congratulate you on the position you take, because it is indeed healthy, it is good and desirable to hear the PCP defend the American presence in the Azores, defending the Base des Lages... [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u191	More: to defend that Americans can't remove anyone from the Base, because that's very worrying. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's good to hear you, sir! It's good! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u192	Mr. Member, there is either NATO or there is no NATO! Either there's imperialism or there's no job! Sir, it's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u193	Is that the position of the CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u194	Mr. Deputies, it is a fact! If the Americans withdraw, there is a job problem in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, especially on the Third Island! It's indisputable! [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mr President, I am complimenting you on your position, don't be angry. The issue advocated by the CFP is a good position. It is more strange, in my view, that the Socialist Party not only did not take the initiative, which, in good time, Mr Joaquim Ponte, took... [[PS protests.]] ... as it is transforming a strategic and national issue into a question of local or regional policy. This is not a question of local or regional policy, it is in my opinion — and I ask you, Mr Joaquim Ponte, whether or not you agree — a national and strategic issue first and foremost. It is that, to me, more serious than the Americans are reducing the effects on the Lages Base — and that, in itself, is already serious — it would be if the Obama administration had led to the closure of the Lages Base itself, as if it had come to suspect it could happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u195	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u196	In this case, we would not only lose employment and economy in the Azores, as we would lose what, for Portugal, is the most important, which is the recognition of its geo-strategic role and the link between fundamental parts of the world, particularly parts and places in the world where the main conflicts are taking place today. That would be the most serious! The question I put to you, Mr Joaquim Ponte — and I know you agree with me, but I am putting this challenge to you — is the following: let us make an effort, within the diversity of opinions, to deserve a consensus position and to have a national reading and effort involving the whole of Parliament, all regional entities, because that is how it should be addressed. Secondly, I ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u197	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u198	With this issue, I do finish, Mr President. I therefore ask whether the honourable Member does not believe that we have to establish bridges and ties with the United States of North America, particularly those who may be our allies. And Portugal has many allies in Congress, Senate,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u199	... has even a significant number, reinforced in the last elections, of elected politicians who are Luso-descendants, who are men of Azorian origin, who are playing an extraordinary role and who can certainly help us in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u200	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u201	Mr President, what we have just heard from Mr Telmo Correia even reflects the voice of those who are in the hands of the Americans, of imperialism. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u202	The truth is that for 60 years all governments have maintained a position of submission to the interests of the United States of America. And the truth also, Mr Joaquim Ponte — who has brought to Parliament the faithful portrait of what are the difficulties of the Third Island, now added with this announced dismissal — is that this situation is not new and that since 2012 we have seen a passive and submissive action by the Government. That's why we watched the breach of agreements and out there. They've given up the Azores! The Left Block has repeatedly put forward proposals to launch a plan to revitalize the economy, to reuse those facilities for return and payment, from those who, for 60 years, have also unveiled much of what is even ecological heritage. As you well know, there is a lot of ecological liability to solve! But here, it is indeed important that there is a consensus that, I believe, there will still be in the Legislative Assembly this week of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, through a motion for a resolution dynamized by the Left Block and, I believe, signed by all parties. This proposal is intended to require the Government to implement an emergency plan that minimizes the effects of staff reductions, which will occur, because, as Mr President said, there will be unemployment and 25% of the active population, in particular the City Hall of Victoria, will be unemployed. This plan for the revitalization of the regional economy is necessary, but concrete measures are needed, including enlargement and strengthening of the protection of unemployment, increasing public investment. And when we talk about public investment we talk about economics — not just foreign businesses, they are business here, public investment in the Third Island, especially in the City Hall of Praia da Vitoria, so that conditions are created so that if in fact the impact of this fraud is minimized, the government has assisted, as we know, in a position of submission and passivity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u203	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Joaquim Ponte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. I would like to begin by subscribing to the concerns left here by Mr Telmo Correia. I would also like to remind Mr Enes of the need that I believe exists — that was the appeal I left in my speech — that this issue is, as has been said here, treated as a matter of national interest, of structural interest, even a matter of national sovereignty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u205	This is a matter of high relevance and, as I have, moreover, had the opportunity to state in my speech, it should not be particularised with the party complaints around it... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u206	Tell that to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u207	..., taking advantage of any party profit there, because this does not result in either the benefit of the Azores, nor for the benefit of the population and workers of the Lajes Base. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u208	With regard to the issue brought here by Mr Carlos Enes, I would like to recall statements made recently that whenever a member of the Government of the Republic contacts a member of the Government of the United States of America, the issue of Lajes is discussed. You know who said that, Mr. Carlos Enes? Dr. Vasco Cordeiro, President of the Regional Azores Government. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u209	And I will just remind you one more statement: "The effort of the Republic is greater than expected. » Do you know who said this, Mr. Carlos Enes? The President of the City Hall of Victoria Beach, the municipality where the Lajes Base is located. I therefore did not want this matter to be so particularised. I think these people and these statements confirm what I'm asking. I think that when a language like 'flashed' is used, that is perhaps not the most happy language. When referring to the State, surely the people who use this language are included in the « slap» they understand that the Portuguese State has taken. I am referring to this because everyone has done their best — the regional government, regional Members, the opposition leader in the region, the Government of the Republic — so that this has the lowest possible outcome for the people of the Azores. It is that penalty will always be and we all have a perfect notion that no one can force Americans to do in the Azores and the Lajes Base what they are not doing in any other part of the world, not even in their own territory. We are aware of this reality and therefore we must manage this matter as of regional and national interest, safeguarding here the interests of the Azores, their population and the workers of the Lajes Base. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the part of our work on political declarations. We will move on to the second item of our agenda, which will be completed with the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 1137 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen investment in dredging works in national ports, particularly in the port of Póvoa de Varzim ( PSD ), 1194 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures guaranteeing the safety of ports and the protection of coastal shoreline ( BE), 1209 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a work priority plan at fishing ports across the country ( CDS-PP ), 1214 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the dismantling of the fishing port of Póvoa de Varzim and the conduct of a technical study that solves this structural problem ( PCP ) and 1216 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to improve safety conditions in accessibility to national bars and fishing ports ( PS ). To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u211	Mr President, before I begin to present our draft resolution, I would like to make a reference to the fact that, even today, when we talk about port and sea security, unfortunately, the shipwreck of the ship Santa Maria dos Anjos, on the beach of the Mazãs, in Sintra, five fishermen are missing, all of them of Póvoa do Varzim and Vila do Conde. It is another moment of deep sadness in a community, which, unfortunately, has to live with this relationship with the sea: a relationship in which they draw their income from there, but also where sometimes—and there are many—life gets more than it should. This is a time when we must maintain hope, express our solidarity to our families and wish them everything to do well at this stage in the search of fishermen at sea. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a unique strategic asset — the sea. Its economic, social and environmental relevance seems to be consensual among all political forces, but it is necessary to strengthen the sea sector politically to become a real economic asset, which is not yet. Thanks to the new integrated vision of the sea sector, there has been the greatest transformation in recent decades, and the current government has this merit. We therefore highlight the fact that the Government has set an ambitious but possible goal: a 50 % increase in the direct contribution of the sea sector to GDP by 2020. Portugal's geo-strategic position presents challenges and places great responsibilities on the international governance of the seas and oceans. Through a global and integrated vision, we understand that Portugal will be able to do and operate, internationally and in terms of the sea, as a country of reference and leader. The best example of this was the early adoption of a Basic Law on the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think no one will have any doubt that port security is crucial to the entire area of the sea by nature. Without this basic condition, several sectors of the national and regional economy, such as fisheries, tourism, the transport of goods, trade, among others, would be compromised. It is therefore important to ensure that the conditions of accessibility and permanent safety in fishing ports are guaranteed, avoiding barging situations, inhibiting the movement of fishing and recreational vessels with high economic and social consequences. The PSD took the initiative to present the draft resolution we are discussing today and to which all parties have joined—and also well! — recommending the permanent existence of funds for dredging and maintenance works of national ports. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The case of the port of Póvoa of Varzim deserves our attention because of the importance it has for the fishing community of Póvoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde, for the recreational activity of the marina of Póvoa, hence it represents in economic and social terms and also because of the gravity it has achieved in terms of rocking the bars in a recent past. It is also important to say that the dredging works are taking place and that the Minister for Agriculture and the Sea, with the presence of Mr. President of the Chamber of Póvoa in Varzim, recently visited the port of Póvoa at the beginning of the work, where she recognized the importance of this subject and the importance of the intervention being made. We therefore recommend that the Government make every effort to consolidate the dredging works in the port of Póvoa de Varzim, in order to ensure the conditions of accessibility to the port - the works are going on but have not finished yet. I conclude by reaffirming our concern, which is shared by the Government, by strengthening the priority of security and the conditions of accessibility to ports, because there is thus a clear advantage for fishermen working at sea, living from sea and sea depends on their yield. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u212	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: following the previous intervention, my first words go, as I could only be, to the families of the fishermen of the Santa Maria dos Angels who are missing. It's another tragic situation. We know that it does not directly have to do with what we are discussing, but, speaking of the Povoa of Varzim and this fishing community, we could not fail to have a word of regret and solidarity for these families. Getting into the theme of the sewerage of the ports, I mean that it unfolds on four sides. The first is security, because it's actually security we're talking about. We're talking about often boats trying to get out of the sea and they can't do it because the ports are haunted and this changes the currents, at the entrance and exit of the ports, in the same way that changes the way there is a dynamics of the tides and this creates real difficulties to the boats. The second aspect is social, because whenever a port is closed the fishermen do not go out to fish and therefore they do not have activity and this generates unemployment, generates income reduction and for the communities, which are communities with resources, in fact, there is a very important social aspect that should not be devalued. The third aspect is economic. For every day that the port is closed, there is a loss to the economy. In fact, it's the country as a whole that loses because the port is closed. The latter is the environmental aspect, because we often see that there is the disabsorption of the ports, the dredging of the sands and they are not used, as they should be, for the replacement of the natural dynamics in the back and, with this, to fight the advance of the sea. Just look at the coast of Aveiro or Setúbal and we realize how the replacement of sands can be a very positive look to block the sea's advance. Looking at these four aspects, there is, of course, a concern: very little has been done about this matter. First of all, there is no national thought on the matter, as it should be. The PSD has placed its initiative very focused on the port of Póvoa de Varzim and we respect that choice. In fact, there is an important local aspect—and in our draft resolution we also follow this very urgent reality—but we must not forget that this is a national matter and that it is indeed a photograph of the ports of the country. There must therefore be a national dredging plan. This is one of the points we have put in our draft resolution, because it is necessary to understand how we are in each port, how we should direct the urgency of the investment to dissipate each of these ports and also, with that, to have the framed thought of all the economic activity that often does not exist. We must also — and that is required in our draft resolution — to value the environmental aspect. We demand that the sand that is deposited in the ports canals be removed from there to improve the circulation of all vessels, but that it be placed on the coast and not used for economic activity, creating, in essence, other problems on the Portuguese coast with the advance of the sea. I believe that public opinion is increasingly sensitized to this matter. Environmental concerns have made their way and therefore we believe that a national dredging plan should walk alongside this concern to restore the sands that, with the natural dynamics, would stop there, but that are now occupying the canals and absorbing the ports. Finally, following also the concern that PSD puts in its draft resolution, specifically with the port of Póvoa de Varzim, we demand that what is being done by half is done. We know that about 450 000 m3 of inerts must be removed from the port of Povoa of Varzim in order to give a clear picture of security and ensure that the channel of the port is debursed; we also know that the planned investment is only to remove 150 000 m3 of inerts, a third of what is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u214	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u215	What we propose is that what is expected to be done by half and that these problems be solved once and for all, ensuring that the fishing community of the Povoa of Varzim can carry out its activity in security and that there is a recognition of the country's need for its economic activity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u216	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, and for the sad coincidence that we are talking about fishing and fishing ports on the day when a tragedy has been unleashed on fishermen, our first word goes to those fishermen of the Holy Mary of Angels and their families. We wish everyone could return home in good health. It is not by chance that on the beach of the Apples there has been the shipwreck of a boat occupied by fishermen from Póvoa and Vila do Conde, it is often so. We are talking about communities — Vila do Conde, Caxinas and Póvoa de Varzim — where families have a strong daily component in fishing and which are in all national waters, a little across the country, and in international waters to contribute to their family budgets and also to the well-being of the other families with the fish they bring. That is why — I have already spoken here and I second the words of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — the safety of men leaving the sea is fundamental. When we are talking about sea and fishing, we often talk about economic potential. I think it is good to talk about the economic potential of the sea and the government has spoken and, for obvious reasons, wagered in the policies of the sea. But within this economic potential, what is associated with the safety of men who go to sea is something that not only we should not forget but, fortunately, we have also seen in government initiatives for being at the forefront of their action. It is clear that, with regard specifically to dredgings and works in fishing ports, there are challenges we have to face and that is why we present this draft resolution which, we must not forget, has a particularity that other matters, when we talk about works and the provision of money, do not have. We must never forget that works of improvement for navigation or correction dredging are not eligible for support from Community funds, so all the effort that is spent here is spent on the State budget, which in years such as those we go through is particularly difficult. That does not mean, Mr President, that the government does not prioritise the improvement and dredging of some bars in the days ahead. The dredgings in Vila do Conde have already been mentioned here, which, I suppose, if they are not finished will be few cubic metres away from the sand to be. The same will apply to the Povoa of Varzim — another week or two and they will be finished for the great benefit of those fishing communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u218	You don't know what you're talking about! You have no idea what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u219	Mr. Jorge Machado, let us not demagogy! If the honourable Member does not think that the 95 % dredgings on the Ave channel and the dredgings about 80%—I will go by this number on the table—in the port of Povoa de Varzim make the difference, I am very sorry, but if you do this demagogy, it does not count on us. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Read the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, and the others too, honourable Member — if you do so — and you will verify that we refer to all the national ports and that what we ask of the Government is to present a plan of those fishing ports that need works throughout the country, which will make available the means to systematize and regularize dredging works in ports and also to make available a permanent amount in the State budget — that is what this bank asks the Government to do — for the maintenance and dredging of national ports. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u220	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u221	Mr. Jorge Machado ( PCP): — Mr. President, Mr. Members: The CFP naturally wants to start this debate by expressing sincere concern and solidarity with the fishermen's families, whose ship has shipwrecked this morning and they are missing and are facing a dramatic situation. It is a situation that certainly deserves the solidarity of all parliamentary groups. The PCP is supportive of families at this very moment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS government and the former PS governments, in addition to resolving no problems for fishermen, have seen the problem of the batch selling price, have not even ensured the accessibility and safety of fishing ports. in fact, because of the sole fault of the PSD and CDS-PP, a large part of the fishing ports are haunted by compromising the activity and safety of fishermen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u222	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u223	Therefore, the PSD and the CDS-PP can speak what they want, but the truth is that the situation we have arrived is the responsibility of the government, it is not of the Holy Spirit. PSD and CDS-PP cannot even claim that they did not know about the problem. The CFP presented a draft resolution on 28 February 2014 in which it addressed this problem and denounced the problems of absorbing the fishing port. What did the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups say? That it was not necessary, that it was not justified, that the government was already doing everything. Mr. Manuel Isaac said: « As regards dredging, the Secretary of State of the Sea has already said what would be done and what others have already been done». Mr Ulisses Pereira, from the PSD, said : « I think the government has done much more than what has been done in previous years; the Secretary of State's explanations show that there is a plan ». Well, the results are in sight, the misfortune is in sight and the guilt is the PSD / CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] More: with regard to the fishing port of Povoa of Varzim, the CFP asked the Government to draw attention to the problem on 19 April 2013. What was done? Absolutely nothing! The case of the fishing port of Povoa of Varzim is a national scandal. At the expense of the irresponsibility of PSD and CDS-PP a new beach was created within the fishing port of Povoa Varzim due to the accumulation of sand. at the entry of the fishing port, the vessels face a sand bank which compromises the safety of the fishermen. This is the sad state in which is the fishing port of the Povoa of Varzim.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u225	And who's the reason? the PSD and CDS-PP that did not do what should have been done and were alerted to what they should do. We want to say that the dredgings that are planned, contrary to what Mr from the CDS-PP said, are not enough to solve the problem. 150 000 m3 does not reach one third of what should be removed from the fishing port of Póvoa of Varzim and therefore the government is preparing to perpetuate the problem. So, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we have to make the framework of the PSD draft resolution, which aims at two, one : or to throw responsibility for the CDS, its coalition partner, as they did in the Povoa of Varzim, or, as the CDS draft resolution, deceive fishermen, into a clear electoral maneuver.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u226	And what does yours mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u227	PSD and CDS-PP are responsible for the situation. The government could and should have solved the problem. They didn't because they didn't want to. The motion for a resolution tabled by us, Mr President and others. Members, it aims not only to demand the cabal defrosting of the fishing port of Póvoa and that this disabsorption is still made in 2015 and not for the calendars or for election promises but also to be carried out a technical study to solve this chronic problem of the fishing port of Póvoa of Varzim and to find technical solutions to mitigate the problem or prevent the landing of the fishing port. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u228	The studies are about everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u229	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mr Jorge Fão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course the Socialist Party, and I personally associate in a sense with what has already been said about the disaster that took place tonight in front of the Beach of the Apples with a fishing boat, whose crew consisted of inhabitants of Povoa of Varzim, Caxinas and Vila do Conde. So here is the record of our regret for this sad occurrence, but above all, words of solidarity and comfort for the families of the missing fishermen. Mrs. Members, we are discussing today five draft resolutions aimed at addressing, globally, the problem of the dismantling of bars or access channels of fishing ports in this country, thus improving the operating and safety conditions of these harbour infrastructures. It is noted that the PSD and CDS were the parties that had the initiative to present the first draft resolutions, the first recommendations, which prove that they are not satisfied and do not recognize success in the way interventions are taking place and, above all, in the way the investment is being channelled to this matter. They therefore recognize these failures, and this sincerity is worthy of registration. Indeed, the interventions that have occurred in recent times in the Portuguese ports of fishing in the area of deforestation have been broken down, with high costs, most of them made out of time and ineffective in most cases. It is therefore understood that the PSD and the CDS, being the parties that support the government, feel the need to present this recommendation. It is of particular interest to note here that all political forces feel the importance of this issue and value the social, economic and political importance of fishing by joining in the debate on this matter. Just as they feel the need to improve interventions and the way they are being done in port fishing infrastructures in Portugal and, above all, they draw attention to the priority of reviewing how the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea, through the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services, and Docapesca, now also having competence in this area, has been developing these interventions. In fact, the reaction has been slow — I stress, the reaction has been slow — late, insufficient and clearly very expensive. That is why these procedures need to be reviewed. Small artisanal fishing and coastal fishing, representing 95 % of the Portuguese fleet, thus occupying a significant part of our fishing ports, discuss this problem with the lack of working conditions, in addition to other problems: the reduction of stocks and the decrease in the volume of catches; the age of vessels and the lack of conditions on board; the lack of support for biological stops; the low energy efficiency of propulsion systems; and still problems of recovery of fish on first sale. Therefore, it is necessary, through these draft resolutions and the improvement of port conditions, to support the fishing sector and to dignify the profession. And, in fact, we find that the draft resolutions we are debating today are, in general, in line with how the explanatory statements are presented, except for the third paragraph of the draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party, which inevitably has to resort to a slightly capitular language, making everyone responsible and saying that everyone despises the fishing sector. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] This is clearly the manifestation of those who, in general, have never solved any serious problems in the fisheries sector and who spend their lives blaming others. Therefore, what is recommended, and that is the common denominator in the five draft resolutions, is that it is planned in a more structured and timely way the interventions, that the processes of contractualization are streamlined with regard to dredging works and that investment is reinforced. But the investment cannot be made only in the Povoa of Varzim — Vila Praia de Âncora, Caminha, Esponende, Punched, Peniche, Fuseta and other national fishing ports need this attention. Therefore, the Socialist Party does not only direct its concern, although it recognizes it, to the issues related to the port of the Povoa of Varzim. In addition to the three fundamental recommendations I have mentioned, we also add that, in our understanding, there must be a system, a monitoring service and constant quantification of the problems of the docking speed so that we have greater capacity, more effective and more timely intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u231	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u232	We are therefore in the presence of very good and timely recommendations to the Government on this matter. We hope that, in line with the initiative they had, the other proposing parties, including the PSD and the CDS, will adopt the draft resolutions under discussion and that the Government, through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea, will welcome and quickly practice a different way of disabsorbing the Portuguese fishing ports. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u233	For a second, very synthetic intervention, Mr Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You are quite right, Mr Jorge Fão, when he says that we are not only talking about some ports but about everyone, I expect that it is well poured into our draft resolution. However, I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that I do not agree with your position that parliamentary groups have to be quiet when they rule. No, the attitude of this majority is always to contribute to the political debate and to supporting the government, but we already figure that we will not be able to count on it when the PS returns to power. Mr. Jorge Machado, let me tell you that the withdrawal of sands from ports or beaches is due to very, very sensitive technical issues. And it is not in a war of number of cubic meters that we understand, it is in accordance with rigorous studies that we believe must be done and, of course, to a multi-annual plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u235	We've asked! It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u236	It is that taking out a lot of sand at one time only has consequences, Mr President, which also call into question security. The honourable Member says no, but if you read the studies, particularly that of LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ), you will realize that. In fact, it is not very difficult to understand this, and I am sure that you will also see it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u237	For a second speech, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, because I have very little time, it is important to state here a central issue. The concern about ports, in particular the case of the port of Póvoa de Varzim, because the problem, by its size, is more serious, has forced us - and I think that well, as we see in this debate - to present a draft resolution. But it is true, and this must be said here, that in recent years two interventions have already been made in the Povoa of Varzim, one before and another which is happening now and which will end in the next few days, within one or two months. We also believe that this is insufficient and we express it to the Government and to the Minister, who acknowledged that there was a need for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u239	Listen, Mr. Michael Seufert!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u240	Furthermore, the Minister has already said here in Parliament — and it was I who put the matter to her, not the honourable Member — that there were words in the State budget to make this year interventions in ports not only in the Povoa de Varzim, but in several ports, particularly in the north of the country, which is where there are most problems at this level. Mr. Jorge Machado, in closing, let me tell you that you should have fired a little bit of the "PCP shirt" and dealt here much more about the issue of the port of Póvoa in Varzim and the national ports, you should have been more concerned about the central issue that was being discussed here. You have not been able to do so, in fact, you never do so, which I think is a pity in this particular case. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u241	You should talk to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries, and I therefore conclude this point. We will move on to the third and final point of our agenda today, which will be completed with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 680 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — expressly commends gender identity in the field of the right to equality in access to employment and at work, making the fifth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PS ). To present the Socialist Party bill, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Representatives of ILGA Portugal and the Ex Aequo Network : Today we meet a constitutional and Community imperative, we implement in the law the dignity of the human person, the structural principle of the Republic. We have carried out a constitutional task of the State. The guarantee of non-discrimination of persons on the basis of their gender identity derives directly from the rights to personal identity and the development of personality. Questions relating to transsexuality cross various branches of the Law and, above all, break down daily with personal barriers whose overcoming goes through the courage of transsexuals, the cross-sectional change of mentality and the clear correspondence between the Constitution, law and services provided universally. Transsexual people are still violently discriminated against, paying for this discrimination an incommensurable pain. Therefore, as regards the Criminal Code, at the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the expression « sexual orientation », the expression « gender identity » was added to the articles relating to qualified murder and offences to qualified physical integrity, establishing the special censorship or perversion of these acts and the consequent criminal increase, if the motivation is the sexual orientation or gender identity of the victim. It would be unforgivable in view of the discrimination experienced daily on the basis of gender identity in the world of work that the legislator did not introduce an amendment to the Labour Code to include gender identity in the list of suspected clauses of Article 24. o. We all know the function of suspicious clauses: women, believers, atheists, members of various ethnic groups or gays and lesbians. We have already corrected the silence regarding transsexuals in the Criminal Code, it is time to correct silence in the Labour Code, denounced in the Subcommission of Equality by the voice of a courageous transgender, whose history was stronger than our emotional ability to listen. As referred to in a joint communiqué signed by, inter alia, the UGT and the CGTP, there is a broad consensus in Portugal that there is strong discrimination against transsexual persons, particularly in the field of work and employment, in accordance with national and European data. We therefore urge the Assembly of the Republic to approve the inclusion of the category 'gender identity' in the Labour Code, prohibiting any direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of this category as well, in an interpretation in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality. It is not this amendment that ends with the courageous pain of all and of all who debate under the circumstances of not always living their skin. I'd like to say that transsexuals are the bravest people I know. Let this legal sign be recognized, which certainly goes far beyond the symbolic: it is the State that fulfils its performance function of society, it is the State that tells which side it is on and, with this, giving another sign to society that transsexuals are like me or like you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not registering any more, so we are going to close our work. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have closed this point because the Bureau has not registered any entries until now. I strongly urge the parliamentary groups to register while the previous speaker is speaking, so as not to embarrass the Bureau by having no registration. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u245	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to hear the views of the PSD and the CDS on this matter, so we looked forward to their registration. As this has not happened, I will certainly leave time to make our assessment of this orientation later. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Transsexual and gender-distorted people continue to feel in their daily lives multiple forms of physical, psychological, economic and social violence. They also continue to suffer multiple discrimination in employment, in the family, in society and in life. in this context, it should be noted that, in relation to access and adequate follow-up within the National Health Service, difficulties persist, which result from the shortage of professionals empowered to do so. We also pointed out that the law that creates the procedure for the change of sex and of proper name in the civil register was important and put an end to the true martyrdom in which citizens lived who only wanted their registration before the State to correspond to their true identity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a proposal to be added to the article on the right to equality in access to employment and at work the category 'gender identity'. by the PCP, we follow the objective and initiative; however, we cannot fail to mention the following: to enshrine in the law and the Labour Code does not rest us. In fact, from the law to life goes a world and it is important to ensure that there are sufficient human resources on the part of the Working Conditions Authority, including inspectors, to ensure the fulfilment of all workers' rights. We reiterate that the transsexual and gender-sex persons suffer from multiple discrimination and therefore are also the target of all the evils of the Labour Code, some of the responsibility of the former Government, the Socialist Party, now aggravated by the PSD/CDS government. These are examples of the deregulation of working hours, precariousness, low wages, lack of protection in unemployment and access to social support. from the PCP there is deep conviction that, when we fight for the guarantee of political, economic, social and cultural rights, we fight for these rights to be a reality in the lives of all, but even of all, citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u246	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS recognizes the importance of this issue and thanks the Socialist Party for taking the initiative to bring this matter to plenary and for giving it the dignity of being discussed here. In addition to recognizing its importance, we also recognize that there may be forms of discrimination in practice, in the field, in the work practices of companies, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. however, we would like to draw attention to, and to make it clear, that the principles of equality and non-discrimination are central to our legal order, as the Socialist Party itself recognizes in its initiative, in enunciation of principles, beginning with its constitutional recognition in Article 13. the Constitution, which focuses on the importance of these matters and which enshrines the principle of equality and non-discrimination. It consecrates it in a global and comprehensive way, but also establishes a more restricted concept, based on the enunciation of a series of factors which, although merely enunciative, has and gives these factors the legal-constitutional relief. in doing so, it distinguishes them as categories that require more demanding control, which require more careful control, the so-called'suspected categories', such as the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well. these categories do not contain gender identity. We know that there are social evolutions of society itself and of social fabric that create new realities, new categories of realities that, over time, gain relevance that needs to be poured into legislation, thus fitting what is the evolution of society. however, as regards gender equality and the principles of non-discrimination, there is no gap in the Portuguese legal system in its consecration and defence. I would like to make it clear, especially for the direct recipients of this initiative of the Socialist Party, regardless of whether or not this initiative is approved, that their rights are legally protected in Portugal. It is not the rejection of this initiative that will offend those rights. I would like to make that clear. The doubts we have about this initiative by the Socialist Party are not about the futility of it, nor about the concern and need to guarantee the protection that, in our understanding, is fully guaranteed in our legal system and, in particular, in labour law. I would like to draw the attention of the Socialist Party — Mrs Isabel Moreira knows better than I — to the fact that her individualization in the Criminal Code and in the criminal law has to do with the principle of legality, which is an inherent principle of the criminal law itself, but which is not transversable and transversable to other branches of our Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u248	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u249	I'm done now, Mr. President. however, we welcome this initiative with the same interest, understanding, though, that there is no gap in our legal order, because we will respect the initiative and the rights of the people to whom it is addressed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u250	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u251	First of all, I welcome Mr President, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. with regard to this bill presented by the Socialist Party to the House, I begin by thanking the PSD Parliamentary Group, considering that any matter relating to the issue of human dignity and to the fight against discrimination which it concerns, of course, deserves all the attention and seriousness we must give to it. It is the view of the Democratic Social Party that, in itself, this inclusion—it is this—that is the terminology of gender identity in discriminatory factors in access to employment does not lack legal protection, in that, constitutionally, this situation of discrimination was already protected and therefore this proposal itself does not represent an innovation from the point of view of legal protection. Moreover, as well as clarifying the proposal that the Socialist Party leaves, dignity and the human person are constitutionally protected basic principles. The PSD, of course, and on that basis, is sure that the constitutionally protected values and principles are met and therefore it was not possible for gender identity to be understood as a factor of discrimination in access to employment. And because this is a matter that deserves the greatest seriousness, I would like to point out that there is only possible discrimination in access to employment if we confuse bad practices and illegality with what is already constitutionally protected and, therefore, differentiation must be made. Even so, if we understand that it does not add to a lack of legal protection, we also understand that it does not harm and that this situation of gender identity corresponds to a community with a greater fragility than discrimination concerns, the inclusion of this principle, as I said, even if it does not add to what we already considered to be protected from the point of view of discrimination, we also believe that it does not harm. Referring to some of the things that have already been said, I want to make clear the idea, as has already been said in previous interventions, which we are interested in that the change of mentalities is never forgotten here. The PSD Parliamentary Group wants to make it clear that Portugal — also tells ILGA Europe when it places Portugal in 6. the place in 49 European countries analyzed with regard to LGBT policies — is not a homophobic country. And to ensure that it is not a country of homophobics and prejudices, it is important to make it clear that no kind of political use is made here that we are not interested in and that it would be disrespectful to human dignity, it is important that we ensure that the law is met, but it is also important to continue to fight for campaigns. in the campaign on homophobic bullying, the government was also commended by ILGA Portugal, who said that it was the first time in Portugal that a campaign was being made to ensure that change — which is not just about the law, because again, this type of discrimination was already protected — is mentalities and that it must be, as this government has done at all times, to ensure that education for non-discrimination is fundamental and that every time, in access to employment, someone discriminates against gender identity, it is already violating Portuguese law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u252	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Although the change must be of mentalities, although it is claimed here that there are constitutionally foreseen principles and that the Constitution itself already provides for the protection of these rights, the excess, which in this case is not too much, but it is precisely the consecration expressed, through labour law, of gender identity, in our opinion, is absolutely more an advance on the path we have been able to pursue. We have followed that path and I believe that everyone here will recognize it. I would not comment on the analysis that Mrs Barata Lopes here has made, somewhat out of tune, about the country where she lives, because it is the data that show us that most transgender and transsexual people do not have jobs. It is the data and life that demonstrate us that they are absolutely brave people when many of them end up backing up the sex transition process to keep their jobs. It is recent data and studies up to Europe that show us that this reality is very difficult in terms of employment, because more than one third of transgender and transsexual people feel discriminated against. And this is obvious. We understand that it was incomprehensible to society and to these people, but mainly to society, that we did not continue the path that began, and well, and that we did not transpose this situation into the legal labour system. The Left Block supports and welcomes this legislative initiative, because it considers it to mean, in fact, legislative progress in combating discrimination on the basis of gender identity and in implementing the rights of transgender and trans-sexual persons. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we have heard here, it seems to us that everyone will agree with this bill. At least, no one clearly said he was going against it. So we expect, because, in fact, it means another step in civilization, it means another step in cushioning the suffering of these people who, as Mrs. Isabel Moreira said, are of the most brave we know. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u254	For a second speech, appealing to your request for a summary, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking everyone for the announced consensus. I would like to say first of all that the situation of transsexuals on the labour market is a dramatic one, a situation which is reflected in the European LGBT survey on Portugal and in the data published by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights on labour discrimination in Portugal. Secondly, I would like to say that the situation from the point of view of the legal framework is not resolved. The principle of human dignity does not resolve it, the principle of equality as it is in the Constitution does not solve it, and the suspicious categories in the Constitution are being updated. I recall that the Socialist Party's latest draft constitutional review aims to add precisely the gender identity. Sexual orientation has only been there since 2004 and therefore we have done so in the Criminal Code in an infra-constitutional way. And even without including the crimes of hate and gender identity, by an extensive interpretation, there could be condemnation of hate against transsexuals, but there is no doubt that it is a very strong sign to be included in the Criminal Code. Therefore, this inclusion in the Labour Code is very important why? Because it reverses the burden of the legality of discrimination, dismissal, the form of contract. If it is discriminated against on the basis of gender identity, it falls into this suspicious category. This is what transsexuals desperately need.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u256	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u257	They need many other things, such as a National Health Service that has doctors able to perform reassignment surgeries, but this, I assure you, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they certainly need it. And so do the ladies. Members have said, and very well, this is undoubtedly a positive sign that this House is giving society that we are on the side of people — I say it again — more brave than I know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-14.u258	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow on 15 a.m. for the next 15 hours with the following agenda: the first item is the general discussion of Bill No 266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations. the second point consists of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 699 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Returns paid holidays ( BE), 695 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 697 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Restores holidays of 1. December and October 5 ( PS ), 749 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), 750 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes) and 751 / XII of 4. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, providing for specific arrangements for the enjoyment and celebration of certain holidays, including their possible provisional suspension and lifting of the suspension ( CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro ). The general assessment of Bill No 164 / XII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Seventh amendment to the Election Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and by Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, and 2 / 2012 of 14 June ( ALRAA ). of the fourth and final point is the joint debate of petition No 407 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by APEPN - Association of Parents and Education Officers of the Basic School and Children's Garden Park of the Nations, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic approve a position before the Minister for Education and Science to begin immediately the urgent construction of the second phase of the Park of the Nations School, and of the draft resolutions Nos. 1123 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the second phase of construction of the Basic School of the Park of Nations and ensure the material and human conditions appropriate to its functioning ( PCP ), 1075 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the conclusion of the integrated basic school of the Park of Nations ( BE ), 1180 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the conclusion of the second phase of the Integrated Basic School 1 / 2 / 3 with Garden of Children Park of the Nations, in Lisbon ( The Greens) and 1215 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the Integrated Basic School with the Park of Nations Children's Garden ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 24 minutes.]]
