ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. Secretary for the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following initiatives have been admitted: draft resolutions 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The urgent construction of secondary school in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 20 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — by reopening the Caldelas Health Pole of the Custom Health Care Unit Living More ( PCP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on academic praxes ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ), 23 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the need for the construction of a new hospital for Madeira ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by reintroducing rail rights to transport concessions ( CFP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 25 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 26 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recognition and strengthening of social economy entities ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the urgent resolution of the problems of the Hospital of St John of God and in defense of the improvement of health care in the Municipality of Vila Nova de Famalíão ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 28 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by replacing the right of railways and their families to transport concessions ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and projects of lein. 56 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends access to invalidity and old-age pensions for workers of the National Uranio Company and reserves the right to an emerging compensation for occupational disease or death ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014 on Casa do Douro ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, as you know today's agenda consists in the evaluation of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. Thus, to make your presentation, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I begin, on behalf of the XXI Constitutional Government, to greet you respectfully VV. Ex. aware that it is before you that the government responds politically and that it is through you that we receive democratic legitimacy to govern. This is a central moment of the functioning of our political system. It says the Constitution : « The Assembly of the Republic is the representative assembly of all Portuguese citizens. », which has the exclusive competence to appreciate the Government's Programme and whose assessment depends on the government's future : its resignation or investment in the full range of its functions. This is therefore an exceptional moment of responsibility for the government. We have therefore done what we did to ensure the viability of the Government Programme and stability in its implementation throughout the legislature. All the parliamentary benches of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party, which provided majority parliamentary support to the Government, proved that there are always alternatives in democracy and that we were not condemned to see the policies that did not have majority support in this House, because they had mostly been rejected by the citizens of the Member States. Members represent. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] It is therefore confident of the solidarity of this majority support that the 21st Government is presenting in this House. But it is also with the pride of the political solution that the feasibility has contributed to enriching democracy by valuing pluralism and diversifying alternatives, ensuring that the majority who voted for the change of policies did not frustrated the inability to generate a change of the majority of government. But I would like to make it clear that by breaking down this 40-year-old wall, we did not want to open a new juncture of confrontation that excludes from the democratic dialogue the remaining parliamentary benches, as well as the inclusion in the Government's contribution programme of the Anim-Nature Party, with which we count to deepen the civil debate on animal welfare. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] It is with this position to open up dialogue and commitment that the 21st Government will relate to this House. And it is with the same persistent effort of dialogue and social consultation that we will relate to the social partners and to society. Social consultation is, for us today, as in the past, a decisive space for the affirmation of full citizenship and for the defense of the modern social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whether in the strategic dialogue plan or in the plan of specific sectoral agreements, the Government will work closely with the Standing Committee on Social Consultation and will stimulate social dialogue by unlocking collective bargaining. The Government will not decide without the indispensable contribution of consultation in all areas in which it is relevant, but I also want to make it clear that it will never listen to the consultation to stop deciding or protecting the decisions that are required to comply with our Programme. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have had the opportunity to say at the time of my takeover, we must entrust history with the discussion about the past and focus on what is required of us today to build the future. The information released this week by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) marks and defines our starting point: a impoverished country, in which economic activity has receded more than a decade, for 2004 values, where employment has receded about two decades, for 1995 values, and where investment has recededed more than three decades. This is what confirmed the numbers previously disclosed, i.e. stagnation economic activity, the investment to be slowed down, employment without getting the announced recovery. These data confirm the full sense of the triple design of the new time we want to start: more growth, better employment, more equality! [[P.S. and P.P.P. Members' applause.]] Relaunching economic growth requires improving the income available to families. Parliamentary initiatives on the full replacement in 2016 of salaries due to public servants and the progressive elimination of the overtax of IRS are already under consideration in order to begin the relief of the fiscal asphyxiation of the middle class. Today I called for next week a meeting of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs to assess, among other things, the Government's proposal for an increase in the national minimum wage to EUR 600 per month throughout the legislature. [[P.S., BE, and P.P.P.P. Members' applause.]] But, in parallel with improving family income, it is essential for the revival of the economy to create investment conditions for companies. These financial conditions require that investment be based on the mobilisation of private investment and on the acceleration of the implementation of Community funds and the synchronisation of the infrastructure planning cycle with the European Union's financial perspective definition cycle. in this sense, I would like to present to the Assembly of the Republic, in 2018, an infrastructure investment programme which can be discussed and voted on here by a two-thirds majority in order to ensure an extended consensus that transcends most of this legislature and in time to frame the negotiations of the European Union's financial perspectives between 2020 and 2027. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, about eight months after the start of the financing of business projects, Portugal 2020, in all its operational programmes, has made available support to 15 companies or business associations. This was the size of the contribution of the new cycle of European funds to the incentive to investment which the Portuguese economy so lacks. We therefore propose to substantially change the current situation, taking immediate measures, so that at the end of the first 100 days of this government, EUR 100 million of effective payments to companies will be exceeded, thus putting full steam incentive systems into full operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To that end, we will take concrete measures to eliminate the already detected strangulations. For example, we will strengthen the mutual guarantee system support funds by EUR 35 million, thereby mitigating the difficulties of obtaining the guarantees necessary for the receipt of support by small businesses. But business investment depends on the resolution of a central problem: the low level of financial autonomy of the generality of companies, which prevents investment with own capital and access to credit, especially in an increasingly demanding context of the ratios required to the banking system. The creation of a Capitalisation Fund, the improvement of the tax treatment of the financing and capitalisation of companies by companies, the duplication of the scope and amount of tax credit to investment and the creation of a line for the advance of tax credit to investment in research and development, are aimed at improving the conditions of investment of companies. Special incentive is what we expect with the Seed Programme aimed at entrepreneurship and the creation of start-up, favoring a dynamic ecosystem of initiative and innovation that has developed in countercycle and that needs to be careful. The relaunching programme of the economy we present thus accompanies the offer side to the desired improvement of the internal demand side. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would like to be clear on one point: the functions of the State do not exhaust ourselves in the essential functions of sovereignty (national defence, diplomacy, internal security, administration of justice and taxation). We cannot ignore, or disregard, the decisive role that public policies can and should play in creating conditions for the attraction, encouragement and empowerment of private investment. On the one hand, in internationalization, supported by an external action integrated with our diplomacy, the promotion of language to defend the economy, from the position of Portugal in the world and the huge potential of Portuguese communities, either in the attraction of investment, or in access to markets where they are located. On the other hand, in the enhancement of our territory, with the diversified investment in sectors such as agriculture, forest or tourism; an integrated approach to sea policy, which enables to enhance the so-called 'blue growth', from aquaculture to port logistics, from offshore systems technologies to ship maintenance and repair, from fishing to biodiversity, from recreational nautical to marine biotechnology, but above all, with a new view on our continental territory and its racial range, looking at what we used to abandon as an interior, as the platform of excellence for the affirmation of our economy in the Iberian market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, the return by the Simplex, extending it to crucial sectors, such as justice, and a proactive attitude to reduce legislation and improve the legislative process in order to improve predictability and reduce the costs of context, investment and business functioning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, and decisively, the alignment of incentives for the priority that innovation has to have a strategy to improve productivity by increasing the value of products and services, which requires, together with incentives for enterprise investment in research and development, to improve the processes of transfer of knowledge and technology to the economy and the enhancement of innovation through public demand and training for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) that are innovative in access to public markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The efficient state is the State that trusts decentralization and governance at various levels, so we have local authorities and autonomous regions in this partnership for development. Regional autonomy is an important asset in our country and in our Atlantic projection. The Government, in conjunction with the regional governments of the Azores and Madeira, will seek to exercise its powers, benefiting from the Azores and Madeira and thus valuing all, i.e. Portugal. This strategy definitely implies breaking with the illusion of a development model based on impoverishment and precarious work and decisively betting on crucial development factors, which are culture, science and education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Science, culture and education are the pillars of the knowledge society, citizenship condition, security factor of the ability to adapt to the uncertainties of the future and the basis for modernizing the economy, through an innovative, competitive and internationalized business fabric. In order to achieve this, it is essential to give top priority to the fight against precariousness. Only in this way will we give future prospects for the new generations, which we cannot resign ourselves to seeing start for emigration; only in this way do we encourage investment in vocational training; and only in this way do we value the dignity of work and improve the productivity of companies. Therefore, better employment is essential for more growth. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] It is this strategic option that requires refocusing on the priorities of our public policies adult education and lifelong training, because we cannot ignore the generation of middle-age, which did not have the opportunity to acquire the levels of qualification indispensable to the new demands of employability for the long-term unemployed. The creation of the generation contract, allowing access to part-time reform, with the counterpart of the recruitment of full-time young people, also has this goal: to strengthen solidarity between generations and a harmonious combination of knowledge, formal and informal, indispensable to businesses and the transition of generations. Active employment policies should therefore also be more effective and selective. More effective, putting an end to the policies of subsidiarity to precariousness in the completion of jobs that should lead to effective occupation. On the other hand, taking two clear priorities: the integration of qualified young people into the labour market, the condition of accelerated modernization of the business fabric and the best way to transfer knowledge, together with policies directed to sectors with a strong capacity to create jobs, such as personal support services for children or the elderly, in partnership with the social sector, or the revival of the civil construction line, with a broad urban rehabilitation programme, which supports a new generation of housing policies... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... or restoration, for which the reduction of the VAT rate is decisive to 13 %. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] in recent years, Portugal has been able to fulfil an ambitious agenda in equality policies, which have promoted the integration of immigrant communities, the guarantee of religious freedom, the fight against discrimination based on sexual or gender orientation. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and some Members of the CFP.]] We must not ignore the fact that the elimination of legal discrimination does not preclude the continuation of a cultural struggle against prejudice or the existence of de facto discrimination with which we cannot comply, such as gender pay differences. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] But above all, we can no longer postpone the priority we have to give to the inclusion of people with disabilities, which requires a cross-sectional action from an inclusive school to a territory without barriers, the improvement of social support mechanisms and a employment and work strategy for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The inclusion of disabled people should therefore be the new central priority of the equality agenda. The new challenges to equality do not replace the persistence of the fight against economic and social inequalities, which the crisis and the implementation of the adjustment programme have intensified shockingly. over the past four years, poverty and inequality have accentuated, interrupting a path of continuous correction, as shows us the rate of risk of poverty, which reaches 20 % in 2013. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This worsening is especially intolerable in the case of child poverty, where the poverty risk rate reaches 26 % — one in five Portuguese children is at risk of poverty — and nothing more dramatically affects the equality and the future of a country such as the poverty of their children and young people. It is therefore necessary to put an end to the fracturing policy, which broke the consensus around the social model, that we were collectively creating and developing in successive governments, after 25 April, and based on three essential pillars: the valorization of public school; the development of the National Health Service (SNS) and the sustainability of public social security and for all. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The replacement of social minimums cut in recent years, such as the Solidary Supplement for Older People ( ISC ) and the Social Income for Insertion ( ISC ), should be accompanied by two new priorities: the dignification of work, with the creation of a negative tax credit that ensures that all those who declare work income can overcome the poverty threshold and an integrated strategy to combat child and youth poverty, focused on the territory and articulated around the school, allowing better synergy in the inclusion of the segment of the population most affected by the increase in poverty and that most endangers our future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Growth, employment and equality are, therefore, three designs that link each other together and reinforce each other, and all of them, as a whole, allow for a healthy and sustainable consolidation of our public finances, with a consecutive reduction in budgetary deficit and public debt, in accordance with the budgetary strategy we have taken in our Government Programme and our economic and social policy favours and powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the crises that have hit Europe since 2008 have hurt the European project and strengthened its opponents. We need to relaunch the European project in Portugal and relaunch Portugal in the European project. We therefore have a clear priority this year in which we celebrate 30. the anniversary of Portugal's accession to the EEC: a new impetus to convergence with Europe. We need to deepen Europe not only to defend Portugal but also to defend the future of the European project itself, whose ideals of prosperity and progress we share. This government will participate in the construction of a Europe that responds to the legitimate ambitions of the Portuguese, a Europe that creates the conditions for Portugal to be more prosperous and equal. The European Union knows that in this government it will find a responsible partner capable of fighting for the interests of its citizens and the values and institutions of the European project. This government will not serve the Portuguese citizens against or despite Europe but with Europe ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and it will not serve Europe against Portuguese citizens but, before, mobilising them to participate in the changes that Europe, faithful to its founding values, needs to realize. In short, with the European Union we want a new impetus to convergence which guarantees the three designs for us to convene at this new time: more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u5	Let us now move to the stage of requests for clarification. The order of questions, as you know, will be the following: PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN. To this end, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, wanted to congratulate you on this occasion, when you sit on that bench for the third time. He was there with Antonio Guterres, after the Socialist Party won the elections in 1995, and contributed to leaving the country in a swamp. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u7	He was there with José Socrates, after the Socialist Party won the 2005 legislative elections, and contributed to leaving the country with the troika and in a pre-bancarrot state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u8	It is there today, in 2015, after the Socialist Party has categorically lost the 2015 legislative elections, and we will soon see in which state it will leave the country. Dr. António Costa, unlike what happened 10 and 20 years ago, this socialist government and this Prime Minister are diminished in their political authority and wounded of death in their popular legitimacy. The people did not choose Dr. António Costa to serve as Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The people did not choose the Socialist Party program and much less the Left Block or the PCP program to be the basis of government action in the next quadriennium. The people chose, free, democratic and consciously, another program, the coalition program that joined the PSD and the CDS-PP. Dr. António Costa and the Socialist Party programme were rejected by the will of the Portuguese people and were made viable by the sympathetic, conscious vote of the elected members of the parties who lost the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u9	Elected! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u10	With an aggravating one: they did all this a little underground and did not say before the elections what they congested between themselves, you know it from when. [[All right!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u11	Rejecting this programme in the Assembly of the Republic is therefore nothing more than expressing the genuine popular will expressed by the Portuguese in the last elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But we know that you are together and will vote together against the rejection motion that the PSD and the CDS-PP will present. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u12	We have no doubt about that, in fact, it even weighed on our decision. [[PCP laughter.]] But, Dr. António Costa, as Prime Minister, I ask, in a challenging way: why does it not present a motion of confidence to this Parliament? [[Exactly!]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u13	It is not to approve a motion of rejection, in the context where your government takes office, that is different from approving a motion of confidence. And, Dr. António Costa, Mr. Prime Minister, my challenge is constructive. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u14	You and the Socialist Party have lost the legislative elections. You and the Socialist Party understood each other bilaterally, by hand, with the Left Block, with the PCP and with the Green Party. You and the Socialist Party, urged by the President of the Republic to clarify some strategic axes of your Programme and their understandings, responded with secrecy. Therefore, I ask: Mr. Prime Minister does not think that the country and those who follow us from outside would see, in this vote of confidence, a factor of tranquility, a factor of stability? Oh, my God! It was indeed you who promised the country a stable, coherent and lasting solution. If your Government and its Programme have emerged from the vote of Members and from the bilateral parliamentary agreement signed with the other parties, if your Government is a minority, it represents only fewer Members than those representing the bench to which I belong, Prime Minister, I ask you whether it is in fact not in the interests of the country and its own interest, as Prime Minister, to have guaranteed this confidence of Parliament. I think it is fair to ask all those who have contributed to this solution not only to destroy, to have the ability, and not to be ashamed, to build together. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u15	This is your common project, your joint project, democracy is grateful that they assume it without hesitation and that they end this secrecy! Mr Prime Minister, one last word to make clear the following: you begin functions, even if you lose the elections, as Prime Minister of Portugal, lead the Government of a country that has left behind the troika, the economic recession, the financial imbalance, the increase in unemployment, the deficit external accounts and the irreverent interest. [[PS protests.]] This is the country we left behind. It is a country that is gradually removing austerity and recovering income. It is a country that has promoted several structural reforms to ensure the competitiveness of our economy, to ensure the increase of our exports, to ensure the attractiveness of investment and, in particular, of external investment. It is a more reliable State, a State that today pays in time and time, a State that has saved the main public systems and has in fact ensured more justice and social equity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u16	Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, too. Members of the Government, that in tax policies, social tariffs, even in sacrifices, the path we travel has always protected the weakest...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u17	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u18	...and always asked for greater effort to the strongest. This is indisputable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] In addition, Portugal is today a credible country...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u19	Mr President, I would like to inform you that you have been far over five minutes, but, as you are discounting in your party time, it is an internal management problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u20	All right, Mr. President, I'm going to walk to finish. As I said, moreover, Mr President, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Portugal is today a credible country, a country respected and praised abroad, a country fulfilling its commitments. The Program that the defeated, united today, present to us puts many of these achievements at stake. [[PS protests.]] It brings wrong economic measures, it brings risky public policies and, above all, it does not bring, for the time being, the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u21	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u22	But she'll come! The bill of a debt, which will grow; the bill of a deficit, which does not realize how it will not increase; the bill of withdrawing investment, rather than attracting investment that manages employment; the bill of your complicit, conscious and voluntary agreement; the bill of this adventure and an experimentalism, which is indeed dangerous. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u23	Mrs. Members, really, as is stated in our agenda, and you all know, the first question may last for 5 minutes, but, as a discount on the time available, what I have now done in relation to the other benches. In other words, what exceeds 5 minutes will be discounted in the overall time of the respective parliamentary group. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u24	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I begin by welcoming the entire PPD/PSD bench in your person and thanking you for the kind of questions you have raised. [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughs.]] First, he asked a really important question: "Why does it not present a motion of confidence? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I give you an answer that I think is simple and clear: you just need to ask for confidence who does not have confidence. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] And this, Mr President, I am sorry to disappoint you - it is a government that presents itself in this House of the confidant Republic, and indeed trusts you in the majority parliamentary support that gives you legitimacy to be here. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] This is because democracy is based on simple rules:... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...the equality of vote and equal legitimacy of those who represent the electorate citizens. What we have in this House of the Republic is 230 Members, who were not appointed by me, nor were they chosen by themselves, were all elected by the Portuguese citizens. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] You may find it strange, but the reason why the PSD and CDS banks are not majority in this House today is because they are not majority in the country and because the other banks had more votes, that is why they have more Members. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] on the night of the elections, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, I had the opportunity to say what was obvious: having the PSD bench more than three Members than the PS bench, naturally headed to Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, or to whom the PPD / PSD understood, the effort to build a stable, coherent and lasting government solution. It was also a requirement which stemmed from the public expression of His Excellency Mr. President of the Republic. And, of course, we have respected the indication that Mr. President of the Republic has made, the task he has given Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho to seek to build this solution. It happens that Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho failed in this attempt and failed to build a majority, stable and lasting solution in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why does the 21st Constitutional Government exist?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u25	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u26	Because you wanted to be Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u27	Because the XX Constitutional Government was confronted with a majority against, in this Assembly of the Republic, and was unable to find a majority solution. As an alternative, the banks which rejected the Government's XX did not limit themselves, contrary to what I said, to vote against, to be opposed... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u28	... to be a negative majority. Don't! The banks that destroyed the XX Constitutional Government also found the solution to enable an alternative government, which is this government that is here, the XXI Constitutional Government. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] And understanding is, in fact, a novelty. It is true that, among these benches, for many years the taboo had been established that there was no dialogue, that there was no understanding and that it was not possible to achieve an alternative majority. And perhaps VV. Ex. they trusted in that taboo and trusted in luck. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u29	The fava has come out!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u30	But, Mr President, what these banks have responsible for has been to translate and respond to the two challenges that have resulted from the elections: first, to respond to the overwhelming desire of the Portuguese people, to put an end to austerity, to turn the page around and find a new policy based on growth, employment and equality. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Secondly, to provide the country with stability, put an end to uncertainty and instability, which would necessarily exist with a government that was unable to find a majority solution in this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u31	That depended on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u32	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, it was up to me and the other 229 Members. Now, what are you guys doing? Members of the PSD and the CDS, in an exercise of humility, perhaps one day, can make... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] There is one thing you have to realize: in the previous legislation, they had a majority; in this legislation, they do not have a majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And you cannot understand that the duty of others is to offer you the majority, that the voters have removed you, because I did not want to pursue your policies. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u33	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u34	Mr President, I begin by greeting you, Mr. Prime Minister, and all the members of your Government, naturally estimating that they have the greatest success. Our understanding is that the success of the government is the success of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to congratulate you, Mr Prime Minister, on your contribution to democracy over the past 40 years. Ex.a is a good example of what, over these four decades, has been, and is, the Socialist Party,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...a party that never took refuge behind the door to look at the best party time to rule or leave the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] I would also like to congratulate him on the speech he gave us in this presentation of the Government Programme. It did not bring us, of course, exceptional revelations, but it brought us, in addition, what we are most interested in: enthusiasm, conviction, foundation, personal competence, frontality, sense of responsibility, sense of national priorities and a deep sense of national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If that is not all we need to reverse the legacy of debt and poverty, which this 21st Government receives, that is what we need in the leadership of the Government of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also greet you. Members, who in the meantime took up and sat in this House after the change of government. This is a legitimately constituted assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u35	That's the most important thing if it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u36	Compliance, in particular, with the leaders of minority parties: Dr. Paulo Portas and Dr. Passos Coelho. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Minority, but loud! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] [[BE and PCP rice]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the House of Democracy... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Very loud! As I said, in the House of Democracy, so legitimate are the majority who form themselves as the minorities who then proceed. We are therefore in the presence of two minority parties in Parliament, which oppose the government, and a majority of the parties and Members who support it. That is to say, this opposition is as legitimate as legitimate is the majority and the government that is supported here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u37	In earlier times, the leader of the minority minority party of the minority coalition had already said that a government with majority support can be both a coalition and only have a parliamentary agreement. True, that was your good sentence. The worst sentence, Mr. Prime Minister, of the leader of the minority minority party of the minority coalition... [[PS laughter.]] ... it was when he told the future Government of Portugal not to ask for help, because, not being that party component of that government, he would not help the Government of Portugal under any circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Prime Minister, as far as the majority party of the minority coalition is concerned, it will only need to resort to itself in order to correct itself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u38	It will be enough, paraphrasing the parliamentary leader of the PSD, to say again, as I said in 2011 : « We need a responsible opposition! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Oh, yeah, we need it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in this new political cycle, which has been so well characterized and expressed in a demanding Government Programme in resource management and courageous in its humanist dimension, we all know that the starting point is penalizing the rulers and, in particular, penalizing the governors. A government has ceased to function which has failed to meet its commitments. A government that did not fail in the sacrifices imposed, but failed in the results of these sacrifices.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u40	A government that sold the country to the waste, which made the lives of the families unsustainablely expensive, that indebted Portugal, that destroyed thousands and thousands of businesses, and destroyed and compromised regional and local economies throughout the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u41	There are only three countries worse than Portugal with respect to the latest quarterly economic growth data. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, that there are no other unanticipated national indicators and changes at European level, what possibilities are there for us to pursue the policy, which is our commitment, to increase the income, in particular of the poorest families, of achieving other levels of growth and finally to embark on a line of convergence with European indicators, while safeguarding our budgetary consolidation objectives? Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to tell you that you can, and must, count on the support of your party, but I am convinced that, in your effort to make Portugal a more prosperous country, for helping Portuguese families, in a very short time you can also be proud to have the support of Portugal, from Portugal as a whole,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...of Portugal that respects an opposition, that fails in its commitments, that fails in its dedication to its own country... [[PSD protests.]] ... and which places, above national interests, party interests. [[Well said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u42	Come on, Prime Minister! Long live the government of Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u43	The Bureau used the same flexibility as recently in relation to Mr Carlos César's request for clarification. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u44	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos César, I thank you for the questions and, in your own person, I would like to warmly greet the Socialist Party's bench and thank you for the support of that same bench in the investment of this government. I would like to stress the following: government programmes are not a news manual, government programmes must be structured, coherent and, as such, coherent policies. The Government programme presented here has a well-known origin, based on the electoral programme presented by the Socialist Party to the voters, and now has the amendments resulting from the negotiations with the Left Block, with the Portuguese Communist Party, and with the Green Greens Ecological Party. The changes made in response to the negotiations were duly advertised and the impact on the budgetary strategy we had defined was also duly marked. That is why this is not a surprising Government Programme, it is a consistent, coherent Government Programme, which responds to what is the Socialist Party's political proposal and is faithful to what the PS has negotiated with the other political forces. This is the government programme we have ahead of us. I would not like to prolong, in this legislature, a habit that has come to accumulate in successive earlier legislatures, and not only in the last, nor in penultimate, for the sake of truth, that is to center the discussion of the present on the discussions of the past. I think we need to focus on what's the starting point,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u45	It's too late!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u46	... and the starting point is the one which, moreover, the National Institute of Statistics has made available, transparent information and this week publicized, in relation to the situation of the Country No 3. This year's quarter. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] I know some of you and some of you. Ladies and gentlemen have doubts about what the third quarter means, but so that there is no doubt... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... I repeat, so that there is no doubt, the third quarter proceeded and ended before the takeover of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the starting point is known: the country took 30 years at the level of investment. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] It is therefore extraordinary to hear that the new government scares investors when at the end of four years of government you managed to reverse the level of investment in Portugal by 30 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u47	I wasn't gonna talk about the past and you're talking about the past! What are we staying on?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u48	It is extraordinary to talk about employment when, in four years of government, they took back 20 years of employment in Portugal and when, at the end of four years of government, they took back 10 years of wealth produced in the country. This is in fact the starting point and a point of departure which has a known price: in poverty, emigration, in increasing the indebtedness of the country, which has risen over the last four years to record levels in historical terms. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] The starting point is this, but the point of arrival must be another, and it must be another one, not by any magical effect, but because there will be other policies. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] This is because the result that has been achieved is also the result of the policies that have been pursued and that is why we need to reverse the policy in order to have other results. contrary to what many believed, austerity did not bring growth, nor did internal devaluation bring prosperity. Poverty and the destruction of labour rights are not the path to development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The path to development must be based on knowledge and must be based on innovation. This investment also implies a new attitude in Europe, not a confrontation with Europe, not an attitude of ruin with Europe, but an attitude that helps Europe change and, changing it, also helps us to resume a path of convergence that has been interrupted since the beginning of the century and that it is urgent that we be able to resume, in a healthy and sustainable way, growing, generating jobs, reducing inequalities and consolidating our public finances. That is our way, that is the way we want to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u49	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Left Block recognises that today's programme reflects the agreement that has been made and the negotiations we had for a government solution that could stop the country's impoverishment. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] To debate today the Government Programme, even more in the context of a right-wing rejection motion, is also to analyze the choice made by the various political forces and the difference between the programme we rejected and this programme that we are discussing today. It is good to focus on the points that are essential: pensions and wages. Where the right-wing programme provided for cuts in pensions and maintain unconstitutional cuts in public service salaries for four years, the programme we are discussing today provides for the freezing of pensions, recovery of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, replacement of public service wages in one year, combating precariousness, unlocking collective bargaining, increasing the national minimum wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In relation to the social state, where the right party wanted to contract with the private, in authentic and gigantic PPPs, the most diverse functions of the State, from the public school to the National Health Service, creating a huge client network, there is now a commitment to strengthen the means, working conditions and access of the population to the SNS, public education, culture and science.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u52	with regard to privatizations, where PSD and CDS-PP wanted to continue selling the country — CP, EMEF, roads and railways — there is a commitment to stop privatizations, review the processes of TAP and EGF and reverse concessions such as Metro, Caris and STCP. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]] Given the differences, it is normal for the right to present a motion of rejection. The Programme is different and offends it. In fact, the right is now in favour of demonstrating how much the arguments about the illegitimateness of this government solution are worth. They therefore present the motion for rejection. We'll be here for the chumbar. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] What we all look forward to today, but I don't know if they give us that joy, is that they say something about their own course. PSD and CDS-PP are not due to any explanation to the country about the return of the overtax that evaporated immediately after the elections?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u54	You guys are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u55	About the illegal signing of the contract for the sale of TAP? About the nominations in catadoupa?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u56	But this is about the government program or what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u57	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u58	On the stagnation of GDP in the third quarter, after all the promises, or on how the deficit target was getting further and further? Or is it that after a full mandate to blame the former government is already preparing to say that the blame is certainly for the next government? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] One thing is true, the right runs away from the debate about reality because it would have many explanations to give, but the Left Block is now interested in talking about commitments for the concrete life of people. We have the conviction that it is urgent to cut off the legacy of the right and to stop the impoverishment of the country also requires a new form of credibility of the political commitment. The hope of a new cycle requires clear words and demands commitments, so that it is possible to live in Portugal with dignity. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, about the conditions of work and employment in Portugal. in the last four years, half a million people of active age have left the country because they have no employment or because they have no decent employment. in the new contracts, the average wage has fallen 300 € and almost no longer distinguishes itself from the minimum wage. Precautionary has become a rule. A country where the few alternatives to unemployment are internships, false green receipts, false temporary work, always with very low wages, is a country where there is no place for hope. We need to ensure that the new generations that begin to work now find conditions to stay in the country, to want to live here, work, build the future. Mr Prime Minister, in the agreement signed between our parties, we have established the conditions for the implementation and extension of the scope of combatting precariousness by strengthening the powers of the Labour Conditions Authority in the regularization of false receipts and other illegal links, with the immediate conversion into contract of work and access to their rights. It is a measure that can already respond to thousands of workers in precarious situations and to false green receipt. I ask you the following: how soon will this measure be in force? When can workers, who today are victims of the most diverse illegalities and abuses, have the possibility of effective recourse to the supervisory authority, which is the ACT? Will we be able to say that 2016 will be the year of the end of false green receipts and other labor illegalities? Is it now that the internships become training for a contract job instead of the abuse that denies that same right? Mr. Prime Minister, who started working in Portugal in the last decade and has not yet emigrated, knows only the law of the jungle in the world of work in Portugal. What can you expect from your government who is now finishing his studies and wants to start working? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u60	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u61	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I thank you for your intervention and I greet you and the Block of the Left, who have contributed to building the political solution to give the country a solution of government with stable majority support in this Assembly of the Republic. As I said, the commitments were made on a programme basis and one of the priorities that has been set was indeed what I called « better employment ». Better employment is an essential condition for defending the dignity of work, but it is also an essential condition for the best growth of the economy. During the last few months I had the opportunity to speak by skype, in two different sessions, with several tens of young people who emigrated in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u62	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u63	Modern!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u64	And they're coming back? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u65	And the reality they all reported was that, more than unemployment, were the precarious working conditions, the indignity of working conditions, the lack of prospects for the future that were offered to them by working conditions in Portugal that took them from abroad. However, the biggest structural deficit that the country has is a shortage of qualifications and this was for the first time diminished with this new generation, which, with great effort of public school, with great effort of families, the country for the first time began to approach the average levels of qualification of the European Union. The drama of emigration is not only an individual drama, it is not only the families that divide and separate, it is also a drama for the future of the country, for the loss of potential for its development capacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Combating precariousness is essential. 90 % of the work contracts that have been concluded in recent years have been long-term contracts and the long-term contracts have ceased to be a step towards the final contract, since only 11 % of the long-term contracts become final contracts. This is an intolerable situation for the dignity of work, but it is a fatal situation for a business model that wants to improve its productivity in what is essential to improve it, that is, to be able to invest in the formation of its frameworks, to bet on the quality of its workers. This is because a relationship that is born condemned at the outset is a relationship in which no one invests: neither does the worker wears the company's shirt, nor does the company engage with the worker, this is not a healthy company, it is not a 21st century company, it is a company that does not guarantee us any future and it is not based on these companies that we will be able to build a developed country and a country that can progress in our European Union. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] The dignity of work is also a question of citizenship. The fundamental value of the dignity of the human person concerns the dignity of the human person in all dimensions of his life, and it is of course more important to defend those who are in a position of inferiority and dependence at work. That is why we must reverse this logic that the right to work and the right to work are a sin and a burden to the economy. Don't! They are a condition for a more just society, which corresponds to the social model on which Europe was rebuilt in the post-war period. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is due to the amendment of the legislation, but it is also, as I said, to the creation of conditions of supervision. And one of the priorities we will have is indeed the strengthening of the Working Conditions Authority. As you know, the Government Programme ends with this idea that it is necessary to continue to reduce the number of civil servants. The Government assumes that the country needs a capable, qualified administration, and there is no capable and qualified administration without qualified persons. We must reinstate the recruitment and integration of persons into the functions of the State. It does not mean that for each person leaving a service between another person for that service, but there are services where it is necessary and priority to restore the conditions and capacity of operation and one of them, surely, is the Working Conditions Authority, in order to combat the precariousness and abuse of the law which has systematically been committed. That is a commitment we have made, that is a commitment we will honour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u66	To put questions to Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u67	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, who did not win the elections, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the programme of a government of parties that have lost the elections, a government programme that is based on destruction and not on construction, rejection and not on trust and in this very simple fact: you are joining us and not on the country, because you can't even understand it. [[CDS-PP and PSD applause.]] But it is above all a programme of a party that has lost the elections, which has not complied with it and has launched itself in an unprecedented and unbridled conquest of power, losing its axis, its values and its moderation. It is the programme of a minority government, a smaller minority, which does not result from a formal coalition, it does not result from a parliamentary agreement, it does not even result from a common text, which has never been able to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u68	Still the story of the common text? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u69	It is therefore a programme which, together, may even serve some parties, but which certainly does not serve Portugal or the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u71	That is also why, in a debate as unprecedented as this and not having your confidence to present a motion of confidence, there can only be a clarifying vote by presenting the parties of the coalition a motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u72	You're apologizing now, aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u73	For two reasons: because, politically, we do not agree with what happened and, economically, we are afraid of what might happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members on the left, who are very concerned, who stand up against rejection tomorrow will be definitely committed and responsible for what this government does or ceases to do. Don't run away from the family picture they're running from! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. President, I end with four questions. First, the Minister of Finance of this Government went to Brussels yesterday. Portugal has budgetary objectives to meet. The PCP, your supporter, says that the value of the deficit is irrelevant—why is there to be three can be four or five or six or seven?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u74	Read better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u75	And the first question I would like to ask you is whether your Government intends to start fulfilling the deficit below 3 % in 2015, which is in its hands, allowing Portugal to leave the excessive procedure, allowing Portugal to be free of sanctions. Being even clearer: can you here ensure that the 2015 deficit will be below 3%? It's a question for a yes or no answer. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u76	Second question: the measures already announced by the agreement with the NAP, the ENP, the BE and the CFP cost at least EUR 2000 million—there are those who speak at EUR 3000 million — increases expenditure and decreases revenue. Where do you intend to go get the money to make up for all this? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u77	Do you intend to increase taxes or not? And what? Third question: your Programme is euphoric about consumption, cabisho in relation to investment and omitment in exports. [[All right!]] [[Protests of BE and PCP:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u78	Example : with the measures of IRC, which are pure ideology, how will it convince companies to prefer Portugal to invest, and with it create jobs, or how will it prevent Portuguese companies from choosing systems that are more favourable to invest what they could invest in Portugal? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u79	And so far, how has it been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u80	Fourth and last question: CGTP Interunion has already announced by this month of December, by the end of the year, a wave of strikes, in particular, and I quote in the « CP, CP Carga, Metro Lisbon and STCP », ranging from tomorrow to the end of December.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u81	You have to review the union affiliation because it's not even right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u82	Dr. António Costa, on behalf of whom you are going to give control of the transport sector to the CFP, to send companies in this sector to paralyze the economy and, above all, make people's lives in hell at a time like Christmas? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Dr. António Costa, is that we, in four years, had 1073 strikes, only in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u83	And they deserved more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u84	You're still here and you already have these? Upstairs, a wave of strikes! Mr. Dr. António Costa, on behalf of what and why did you deliver the transports to the CFP? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u85	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u86	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I welcome the entire bench of your party, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP. Mr President, I do not qualify myself as a winner or loser because I do not remember anymore since the CDS did not vote. [[PS's laughter and applause and BE's colleagues.]] [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] But let me try to attenuate your speech somewhat tense with a little sense of humor: it is true that I negotiated with the PCP, but, by the way, it was the gentlemen who stayed with the cassette! [[BE's laughs.]] [[PS's laughter and applause.]] And what the honourable Member... [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Prime Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u88	And what Mr Nuno Magalhães described as unpublished is simply what has happened in all elections to the Constituent Assembly and to the Assembly of the Republic. The Portuguese vote and these votes are turned into mandates. Whoever has more votes has more mandates; whoever has less votes has less mandates. Why is it that the PPD and the CDS together have fewer Members than the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u89	What about the PAN?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u90	It's the PAN. for the same reason that some and others have always had more mandates or less mandates! It's because they had more or less votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u91	I'm sorry, but you didn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u92	in the previous legislature, PSD and CDS were sufficient to be a majority. It happens that in the new Assembly of the Republic the PSD and the CDS are not enough to be a majority. What happened? It is that the other parties, which together form the majority, have not limited themselves to preventing the formation of a government of the PSD and the CDS, have not limited themselves to having an attitude of obstruction,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... they did not just have an attitude to wait for the best opportunity to put you down, but found, from the first minute, a government alternative that has a majority support in this Assembly of the Republic. That is simply the rule of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães was obliged to meet us and, therefore, to know well... [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u93	Irritated!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u94	... to know well that we do not have the slightest doubt that it is of strict national interest that nothing happens in the next 29 days that can disturb an objective of which the whole country communicates, that the country can leave the procedure due to excessive deficit. So, this government, in the next 29 days, will do everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u95	Don't ruin it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u96	...to not diminish the revenue nor increase the expenditure on the point where we were on the day we took possession. And what I deeply wish, in the name of the national interest and also of the interest of this government, is that, from the end of next year, Portugal can live without being subject to the rules of the excessive deficit procedure. Mr Nuno Magalhães said that one of the parties supporting this government would say even three of the parties supporting this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u97	Everyone but the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u98	... not only do they not defend the budgetary treaty as they are against the budgetary treaty and are even indifferent to the fulfilment of the objectives of the budget treaty. This is the well-known position of BE, PCP and ENP. But it is also known the understanding that the Socialist Party has and is expressed in the Government Programme. We understand that the treaty must be changed, but like all the treaties that bind Portugal and in the name of the principle of State continuity, the State must respect the treaties it is bound to while they remain in force. Therefore, this government will do nothing to fail to comply with the treaties it is bound to. More: It is very clear that none of the parties supporting this government had to revoke principles that they consider irrevocable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u99	Truly irrevocable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u100	... nor did the Socialist Party have to abdicate the fulfilment of an objective contained in its electoral programme and which remains in this Government Programme. It is because of this understanding, this agreement, this joint position, as you would like to call it, is a principle of great transparency. We respect the plurality of each’s identity and we converge on what we consider to be priority and essential to respond to what we consider urgent for the country: turning the page of austerity, allowing more growth, better employment and greater equality. This is the basis of understanding and that is what cements this agreement and nothing else. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy said that he was afraid of the effects on the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u101	Stabbed! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u102	Mr Deputies, please, after the results already tested, of the magical solutions that they wanted to apply to Portugal, as if it were a laboratory, to, through the blind austerity that they practiced, this desire and the ambition of radicalism to go beyond the troika, with the results they achieved, are now afraid of changing policies? Mr, there is one thing I can assure you: changing policies will change the results achieved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u103	That's what I'm afraid of!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u104	...because the continuation of these policies can only lead to the same result that you have achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last note: I find it absolutely extraordinary that Mr Nuno Magalhães comes here to raise the question of public transport and, in particular, of urban public transport in Lisbon and Porto as he did.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u105	Of course! That's how people feel!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u106	What people have seen over the past few years is that with the policy pursued by the previous government the country and cities have had 1073 strikes, which you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u107	Until March!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u108	This is the result of the intransigent, stubborn and pure ideological prejudice that led the Government to refuse an understanding with the Port Chamber and the Port Metropolitan Area, with the City Hall of Lisbon and the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, and this theimosia merely bases, in a prejudice, the fact that private management is better than public management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u109	At least there are no strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u110	... even when this private management is ensured by a Spanish public company to which the Government has delivered part of the public transport of port because it does not trust local authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, you certainly give great praise to the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u111	That's who's in charge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u112	... confusing the PCP with the democratic local power, confusing the PCP with the citizens and confusing the PCP with the desire to have an urban quality transport service, which is absolutely essential for the development of cities and the quality of the urban environment. That is what we want to guarantee, and that is what we will guarantee. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u113	And the strike is alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u114	To conclude, I would say that, fortunately, blindness and radicalism were so much, it was so much so that the Court of Auditors did not deal with the contracts and today it is possible to undo this negotiation without it cost the State any money or compensation that the State would have to pay. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u115	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP, has the floor for requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u116	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the political process resulting from the legislative elections and after the PS government is taken over, we are now at another stage, that of the discussion of the Government's programme. PSD and CDS suffered a heavy electoral setback, losing the majority and being limited to a minority, unable to form government and to see their Program approved, as part of the new expression and assembly of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, arming forces from which it emerged an alternative political and institutional solution, supported by a majority of members elected by the Portuguese. from here it is a fact: the majority of the Portuguese people expressed the desire to see out of their lives the Government of the PSD and the CDS, based on a deep desire to stop with the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, in the hope of a better life. in their guerrilla and fighting effort, PSD and CDS refuse to accept this expression of popular will and analyze the causes that led to about 700,000 Portuguese — an entire CDS! — they had abandoned their coalition...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u117	A whole PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u118	... and wanted to prevent the PSD and CDS from carrying forward their policy of economic and social destruction, of the country's deepening and decline, treating the injustices and the drama of many lives as mere collateral damage. The unemployment there is, and remains, at high levels; the precariousness of work no longer only but of the very life of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who have been stripped of minimum living conditions; all these dramas that reach millions of Portuguese continue to be despised by the PSD and the CDS, who prefer to feed a sterile political guerrilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u120	PSD and CDS exercise the differences and program differences between PS and PCP as if they had discovered the powder, as if there had ever been concealment or even abdicating the identity, the project, the program, as if there was no commitment of the assumed PCP and maintained with the workers and the Portuguese people. It is understood that PSD and CDS want to hide what was in particular possible PS and PCP identify as elements of convergence in response to the problems and aspirations of the workers and the people and that are poured into the Government Programme that we are discussing today. This programme has welcomed a number of proposals which, in their implementation, can help to improve, even in a limited way, the lives of millions of Portuguese people, particularly workers, pensioners, young people, women, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Measures for the replacement of wages, for the freezing of pensions, for the replacement of supplements for the reform of workers in the state business sector and for other incomes and rights, including holidays, social benefits, measures to combat precariousness, false green receipts, for the misuse of traineeships or for the conversion of scholarships into research contracts. Measures to reduce the tax burden, in particular the VAT on restoration, the introduction of the IMI safeguard clause, the allocation of human, technical and financial resources necessary for the quality of the health care provided by the SNS, the elimination of the barrier that moderate rates constitute in access to health or in the replacement of the transport of non-emergency patients. in education, with an important set of measures, in particular with a view to strengthening social action in school, the progressive freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education or the reduction of the number of students per class, such as other public services, in particular social security and transport. It is true that this is not a CFP Programme, this is a PS Government Programme, a Programme that recognizes that policies promoted in recent years have been wrong. We record the will of change that expresses and we will contribute to the confirmation of life. Twenty-one days after the defeat of the PSD/CDS Government Program we could ask the question of how much time we need to discover all the unpleasant surprises that the previous PSD/CDS Government leaves to the country. in these twenty-one days we have already confirmed that the refund of the overtax was an ambush, we have already found that the budget implementation is unfair to the promises made regarding the deficit and we have already confirmed that BANIF is indeed a cause of concern to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u121	That's been two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u122	What will be more to discover and how long this discovery will take will be a good question to ask. Allow me another question. The PS Government programme we are discussing today will have to face the contradiction between the degree of achievement of its structural objectives — the creation of employment, investment, economic growth and development — within the framework of the existing external constraints imposed on us and whose instruments of realization have been untouchable dogmas for the PSD and the CDS, with the serious consequences that are known and reflected in the country's grave economic, social and cultural reality. It is necessary to overcome the difference between a reality imprisoned in draconian and sterile rules and constraints and the need to affirm our sovereign development. This is a question that the Portuguese put to themselves and to which, we are sure, they would like to have an answer from the Prime Minister, to guarantee them another future to which they aspire and deserve. We appreciate the response to the most urgent problems in Portuguese, while at the same time putting the obvious need for a patriotic and left-wing policy. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there has been a defeat that has not yet been mentioned here, that of the ideology of inevitability, which justified everything and imposed everything. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] A window of hope is open, that hope is not waiting. You will agree, Prime Minister, that it is necessary to carry it out. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u124	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, thank you very much and, in itself, I would like to greet all of you. Members of the CFP and the contribution they have made so that it is possible for the country to have this government solution. The honourable Member began by putting the matter to the proper point. The right has difficulty in understanding that the left, despite being plural, is able to understand what is essential. Plurality and our differences are not a weakness factor; on the contrary, it is the very identity of each one who gives strength to this collective and to this convergence that was possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u125	It's a collective!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u126	And what is really to welcome is the ability that the different parties had to keep up with their responsibilities and that, before a very clear desire of the Portuguese people that there was a political change, we were able to turn, too, a page and assume the responsibilities that compete with us, not to frustrate the only opportunity that this majority voter who rejected the policies on the right could also become a majority that was a government solution. This is something that is important to emphasize and whose political importance cannot be diminished. Now, this is obviously based on the clarity and transparency of respect for one another's principles. We know that we have a different view of Europe, but we both share the concern about the need that Europe also creates the conditions for this single currency not to contribute to further accentuating asymmetries between different economies and, on the contrary, that we can resume a convergence process. I know that the CFP considers this compatibility effort to be difficult. The commitments we have made with the CFP are commitments that we have evaluated, measured and that in the projections we make of our budget trajectory we consider absolutely compatible. I know that the PCP also defined the rule, as we defined the rule. We want to carry out a trajectory and the PCP said, with all clarity, what is not available to support in order to carry out this trajectory. What the CFP is not available to support, it must also be clear, is also what we are not available to propose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the road will certainly not be easy, but what is important is that we have decided to start this journey. And I'm afraid--I'm doing it in an open, good faith manner, and based on mutual trust. When I say here that this is a confident government is because we know that we can trust those with whom we have created this government solution and that, in particular, we can rely on the CFP for this ability to govern in the perspective of the legislature. This is our confidence and our trust in the dialogue and working together with the CFP. It is true that it is impressive to look now at what were the statements of the then Prime Minister and then Minister of Finance on the guarantees that were given, in a few days of the elections, on the return of the overtax. It is impressive to see that in July a return of 19 % was expected, as in August the return was already in 25 %, and as in September, on top of the elections, it was in almost 36 %. And all of a sudden, even in this government, it has been found that, after all, the prospect is to arrive at the end of the year and the return of the overtax of the IRS is 0%, having passed from nothing more than a monumental attempt at electoral fraud with which the Portuguese and the voters wanted to be deceived. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] But there is one thing we can guarantee: from next year there will be no « ses ». From next year onwards and according to what will be deliberate by this Assembly of the Republic, the overtax will even begin to be eliminated because the issue is not to return 9 %, nor 15 %, nor 36 %, is simply to eliminate the overtax. That is the compromise we have and we have to achieve. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] It is true that we have external constraints and that we have different positions on external constraints. Now, the view we have is that Portugal also has one word to say in Europe. And the Europe in which we believe, Europe why we have to hit is a Europe where all states are equal. It is clear, as I have said, that in a negotiation with 28, no one can promise the result. And the experience of other States has already shown that it is not the isolated and confrontational route that we can find solutions. It is creating alliances, it is opening spaces, it is creating dialogue and perspectives of alternative that we can also find the margin of manoeuvre that we need to put an end to this divergence, which began at the beginning of this century, and resume the convergence path that we had in our first 15 years of participation in the framework of the European Union. This is an effort we must make, which we must all do irrespective of the different perspectives each one has on the nature and what the future of Europe should be. But there is one thing we must all understand about: in Europe, our first duty is to defend the interests of Portugal, the interests of the Portuguese economy and the interest of the Portuguese. That is our position, and that is how we will fight in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u127	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u128	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin by complimenting you on behalf of the Green Group of the European Parliament, as well as all of you and all of you. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, this issue that either the PSD or the CDS today have brought to the end of their speeches here in the Assembly of the Republic in the debate on the Government's programme — and I am referring to the question of the legitimacy of the Government — is not put, Prime Minister, because the PSD and the CDS do not consider the government to be in fact legitimate. They know that the government has political legitimacy, as it is obvious. What they do not want to prove is that there can be an alternative policy in Portugal, different from what they have done. That's the fear they have. And that is why they consider that there is no legitimacy to practice a different policy, a policy that brings different results from those who brought in this case the governance of the PSD and the CDS. It is clear that there is legitimacy when 230 Members are elected, and when PSD and CDS alone do not achieve a majority in the Assembly of the Republic and simply do not have any other political force giving them their hands, because the other political forces have committed themselves to a change. So, Prime Minister, it's for that change that we have to work on. And to work for this change, Prime Minister, there is one first thing we have to do: a real policy. The politics of lies and illusion is over. You can't go on anymore, Prime Minister! [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] There can be no 100 000, 150 000 people to emigrate in one year, and the government continues to say that the level of emigration is nothing special, because in the past it has always been that way. There can be no more 800 000 poor people and the government will eradicate from its speech the level of poverty that exists in Portugal. A government cannot say that an overtax will be returned to the Portuguese by 35 %, when, in fact, it already knew at the time, that the result would be zero. You knew by the time, Mr. Prime Minister! It cannot be said that this, now, is all about economic growth when the INE comes to tell us that the stagnation of economic growth is in sight. Mr Prime Minister, this is the first question: a policy of truth. The second question, Prime Minister, is this: for the Greens, there is a fundamental and priority commitment to the country which is the fight against inequalities — and at two levels. One of them obviously has something to do with poverty. The PSD and CDS sought to create a model in which it was essential that a particular population range fall into poverty for this same model to be supported. And not only that he had fallen into poverty, but that he had remained in poverty, that he had become accustomed to this level of poverty, so that his model could work, a model of service to great economic and financial power. And this is not a sustainable model for the country. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, to discriminate here some essential measures to combat poverty in the short and medium term. It is clear that the freezing of pensions is a priority issue, it is clear that the increase in national minimum wage is fundamental,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u129	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u130	... it is clear that the replacement of wages that have been stolen is fundamental, but there are more measures, Prime Minister. How are we going to reverse this cycle of impoverishment of people in the country? There is also another fundamental issue in the fight against inequalities, which has to do with regional asymmetries in the country. Simply and simply, PSD and CDS have worked to forget much of our national territory and the potential that this territory and the people in that territory have to offer to the country's growth and development. And it is clear that, if public services, investment and incentives are fundamental to the establishment of enterprises within the country, there is another issue that is fundamental, which is the subject of mobility and transport. It is mainly now that the Paris Summit is taking place and that the effects and consequences of climate change are discussed and that we also know that the transport sector is of the largest greenhouse gas emitters, so, Prime Minister, the transport sector must be a priority in Portugal, both in urban logic and in the logic of the country's connection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u131	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u132	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, rail transport is a key part in this mobility that is wanted to be more ecological, more friendly to the environment and more friendly to people, because it allows them precisely this mobility that is denied to them. I would also like a comment from the Prime Minister on what the Government Programme has to offer in this regard. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u133	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u134	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would also like to welcome the Parliamentary Group on the Greens and the support and contribution they have made to the creation of a majority support solution to this Government in the Assembly of the Republic. The right started by confusing arithmetic with economy. Therefore, he thought that if he cut the expense, he would surely reduce the deficit, not knowing the effect that he went beyond the troika had in 2012, and he thought that if he simply increased taxes, he would increase the revenue, not knowing the effect that it had on the economy. The truth is that having gone beyond the troika and the huge increase in taxes in 2012 resulted in a huge recession in the economy, which did not reduce the deficit, on the contrary, aggravated the deficit and increased the indebtedness of the country. The right believed that it had changed the paradigm of our development model, it came to be announced that today we grew on the basis of exports and that imports had decreased, simply because they had cut wages and increased the country's impoverishment. Now, changing the paradigm of development is not all of us are so poor that we can't buy anything, neither what is imported nor what is produced nationally. That is why what we have seen in recent years is that, although there has been an increase in consumption, it has not been healthyly supported in the increase in income but in the increase in indebtedness, and has not contributed to an increase in national production but simply to an increase in imports. The model that the right had said was a model that had worked didn't work, it didn't work and we have to turn the page to that policy. That is why it is necessary to affirm an alternative. They ask: “But how is it paid? It is paid precisely because if we have a working economy, we have better conditions to increase revenue and we have better conditions to reduce expenditure. We do not want to reduce the expenditure on unemployment because we cut access to unemployment benefit to those who are unemployed. We want there to be a reduction in the expenditure on unemployment allowance because we want there to be less unemployed and more employment, more people employed and working. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not want to increase tax revenue by increasing tax burden, but by increasing income, by increasing people with incomes, by increasing the number of taxpayers, so that we can have consolidated public finances in a healthier way. This is the alternative that we have to build and that turn of page we have to do. And you are right, Mrs. Member, they refuse to accept this evidence, that there was an alternative. So they believed they could be ruling today, and they could be ruling today against the will of the majority of the Portuguese people. But the answer we were able to give was that we managed to turn a majority of government into a support which was the majority voter expressed by the Portuguese in the elections. And that is what gives legitimacy, and that is what gives political and democratic strength to this policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Combating inequality, particularly poverty, is a priority. Of course, before poverty, we cannot accept the continuation of wage impoverishment. Thus, the fight against inequality goes through the minimum wage, but it goes through another fundamental factor, which is to unlock collective bargaining, because collective bargaining is essential to rebalance power relations in companies and we can have, in a healthier way and adjusted to each sector, a better wage progression. But we have specific measures to combat poverty, namely: the restoration of the scope of access to the solidarity complement for the elderly and social income of inclusion; a national strategy to combat child and youth poverty; and the forecast of a new social benefit specifically aimed at workers, those who, by discounting labour income, arrive at the end of the year and are below the poverty threshold and who today, in an offensive way, are already 10 % of the people who do labour income discounts. It is unacceptable in a decent society that those who work at the end of the year are below the poverty line. This must be compensated and this new benefit must be introduced to combat poverty levels in Portugal. Finally, the railway bet is essential, as the bet on public transport in general is essential. And today it is also, essentially, a decisive bet on environmental issues. That is why, in the new government organization, we have made a major change in the protection of urban public transport from the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure to the Ministry of the Environment. This is because we want there to be a decisive investment in improving the urban environment and because the great civil challenge of climate change is lost or won in cities — and it is lost or won in cities based on energy efficiency that is possible to acquire in cities. And in two fundamental areas: the energy efficiency of the building, and hence the priority to rehabilitation, and energy efficiency in mobility, and hence the commitment to public transport and the unification of this urban environment policy in the protection of the Ministry of the Environment, so that it can be an important engine of a new energy paradigm in Portugal and a new bet on the quality of the environment and Portugal's contribution to improving the conditions for combating climate change. This is also a priority of this government's political action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u135	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u136	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my wishes for success to the new Executive and by congratulating the integration in this Government Programme of certain measures in the field of animal protection, an apparent new position towards the water sector and the deterioration of inadequate economic and social restrictions. however, its detailed analysis reveals some inadequacies in the approach of other structuring themes and raises several questions, which I ask. Chapter IV refers to the creation of a « National Education Programme for Health, Literacy and Self-care ». Knowing that a high percentage of the State budget goes to the treatment of chronic non-communicable diseases, many of them related to poor eating habits, does the Prime Minister consider the inclusion of concrete measures, such as the gradual introduction of biological food in canteens and public administration restaurants? Second question: in chapter VI, page 185, which refers to the leadership of the energy transition, the Programme foresees the revision of the National Barrage Plan. The measure does not include the expression « suspension », only the « revision » of the Plan. It is therefore unfortunate to think that the mere reference to a « review » does not require the PS to stop the process of licensing and construction of the missing dams. We know that review processes in our country are often prolonged over time. So, the question we would like to see answered is: will the revision of the National Barrage Plan be accompanied by the immediate and necessary suspension of licenses and constructions until there is a conclusion of this review? Third question: This programme defends the exploitation of gas and oil on the sea coast of the Algarve. This holding puts at risk the main economic activity of the region, tourism, which still works as the main lever of the rest of the economic life sectors of the Algarve. Since the world's historical experience of oil exploration accidents makes it possible to affirm the likelihood that severe and devastating environmental accidents may occur on the coast and beaches of the Algarve, however, Mr. Prime Minister, does he think that we must continue to subject our common good to economic interests irreversibly?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u137	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u138	The last question I want to raise is this: the Lisbon Municipal Assembly recently adopted a motion to the Assembly of the Republic to include in the municipal competences the prohibition of acts of violence against animals, including bulldozers. Is the Government available to follow this idea which aims to give each municipality freedom of decision?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you from the first election of the NAP to this Assembly of the Republic and from the dialogue we have held, which has enabled you to enrich the Government's programme with a set of contributions that the NAP has made. As you know, our Government gives great priority to strengthening decentralization and understanding that decentralization must even be the cornerstone of state reform. The municipalities with tauromáquica activity are less than 50 in the country as a whole. There are municipalities where it is a very rigid tradition and there are municipalities that, by their own decision, have already excluded this activity from their territory. I believe that the good rule is to entrust each of the municipalities with the definition of decisions concerning the performances as well as other kinds of shows involving animals. I think that the best way is not to lay down a national rule, it is to do so according to the specific reality of each one, the cultural value that shows have in each one of them and the practices that in them must or should not be pursued, by the democratic will of the municipalities. I think we have good reasons to trust the Portuguese municipalities in a responsible exercise of this competence. If we do so at the same time we are responding to what we should safeguard, that is, on the one hand, the preservation and strengthening of animal welfare and, on the other hand, containing and respecting traditions in the spaces where they have a density that justifies that, democratically, these municipalities intend to pursue these practices. The allocation of this competence to the municipalities also opens the door to which the citizens of these municipalities themselves may be able to, by means of a local referendum, speak on this matter and I think that we must bet on and rely on local democracy in order to be able to decide and manage these decisions because it will certainly be decisions that will correspond, in a more genuine way, to the effective popular will and the very nature of each of the municipalities. A second question has to do with health promotion by changing eating habits. in this matter is, moreover, very important the work that many municipalities have been developing in order to create education programs for health through school meals. It is important that these practices are generalized in such a way that we can improve our eating habits and that this has been done since childhood, because it definitely conditions the evolution of each one's health and contributes, in a healthy way, to health promotion and so that intervention in health does not occur exclusively at the stage of the pathology, but, on the contrary, there may be a preventive phase and promotion and education for health. With regard to the two other issues you have raised, what is included in the Government's Programme is exactly what we are committed to do: on the one hand, to review the National Barrage Plan as soon as possible, to make the assessments, and, on the other hand, to evaluate the potential of the country's natural resources, taking into account the need for compatibility with other economic activities and also with a greater good that is necessary to safeguard: the environmental protection of sensitive areas that it is important to preserve. It is in this sense that the Government Programme should be read, understood and that these exercises should be continued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u141	Mr Prime Minister, we have arrived at the end of the first round of questions. A further 15 were registered, ladies and gentlemen. Members to request clarification, having the Prime Minister informed the Bureau that he will respond by groups of four. First of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u142	Mr President, I thank you, above all, for giving the floor first to a member of the majority board of the Assembly of the Republic. It's just a matter of accounting, Mr. Carlos César! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, we are discussing today the Government Programme which has brought to the Assembly of the Republic and which the Portuguese have never supported. They did not suffrage him, because this is not the electoral program of the Socialist Party, it is not the electoral program of the Left Block, so little is the electoral program of the Portuguese Communist Party. It is a sort of rapsodia, Mr. Prime Minister, an undefined set of proposals from the various parties without any consistency and, indeed, Mr. Prime Minister assumes his paternity. Mr. Prime Minister! Until the ladies and gentlemen. Ministers have only signed a contract of accession whose aim is, in essence, to be a contract of society, but a contract of society in which, in the taste of the Portuguese left, the golden share is in possession of the Block of the Left and the Communist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we do not reject the Government's programme simply because we reject it. We reject it because it does not meet the desires of Portuguese and Portuguese. I wanted to remind you on September 17. There are 76 days, 1824 hours, but I believe that Mr. Prime Minister will remember with certainty a debate that remained for the history of Portuguese radios and that Mr. Prime Minister has lost in a number of ways. You lost that debate on the occasion because you were unable to give an answer to which I asked for your attention today. I think it is an answer that this bench, but also the benches on the left, and especially the Portuguese, expect you to give. in the third paragraph of page 227 of the electoral programme, Mr Prime Minister reaffirms the desire to strengthen the application of conditions of recourse to non-contributory social benefits. Moreover, Mr Prime Minister has announced in times that this meant saving EUR 1000 million. Mr. Prime Minister, you will not take me the wrong way to address me now to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party to ask them whether it is to bail on a cut in non-contributory social benefits that the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party will use such a golden share. It's just that for several years, we heard here what left-wing was about cuts in pensions. Today they will guarantee this cut in non-contributory benefits with the golden share that is in possession of the most radical left of Parliament's benches! Mr. Prime Minister, let me ask you a question and it is not worth it after we enter a ping-pong game. He does not want to shake responsibility, because it is up to him now to respond to the governance and the proposals he writes in the Government Programme. Mr Prime Minister, what are the non-contributory social security benefits to which a resource condition will be imposed? You have to tell me, me and the Portuguese, that social benefits are going to cut. Is that the family allowance? Are these the scholarships? Are social pension supplements? Is it the social income of insertion? Mr. Prime Minister, as I told you, 76 days have passed and Mr. Prime Minister has not given these answers. Well, today's your day. I would also like to remind you that 56 days have passed since the last day of October 4 which was the day when you lost the legislative elections! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u143	To request clarification, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I would now like to extend to you a very special greeting on your appointment and I hope that a great mandate will be realized and, for what I have heard today, I hope that you will have an unequivocal condition of patience in this legislation that we have before us. Mr Prime Minister, over the past few years, it has been clear that the living conditions of the new generations have deteriorated. The precariousness has been consolidated and proved to be the average wage level of the new employment contracts with a wage of just over 500 €. Young unemployment did not show a consistent path of backwardness, accounting for over 30 %, one of the highest values in the European area. Emigration was and constitutes one of the greatest chagas in our society, leading only in 2013 and 2014 to the release of 2 % of our population. Portugal is even the country with the highest emigration rate in the European Union. But what is more serious, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Prime Minister, it is that all these problems have affected the whole of our population, but they have attacked with special intensity the new generations, with their families being deprived of a common life project. And even more serious, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister: let us not be mistaken, this whole picture is largely a very clear political option on the part of the conservative right that has ruled us over the past few years. When the most qualified generation ever needed a government to guarantee its rights, encourage its capabilities and protect its future less Portuguese could count on it. But, Prime Minister, it's not strange. After all, the ceased government believed that it was possible for the country to be better but the Portuguese to live worse! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And perhaps that is why the Portuguese and Parliament — I stress, the Portuguese and Parliament — have taken the right to this comfort zone which is the place of opposition, and now the place of comfort which is the place of opposition of the minority against which it is forming in this Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS, to the small vision of our country, little is what VV. They did it with the young Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] To the small view of our country, little bit was what VV. Ex did it! To the small view of our country needs to counter a new approach, a new vision as a whole for the construction of future Portugal! It is essential that the new Government which Mr. Prime Minister is leading government for all generations rather than instigating conflicts between Portuguese generations. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: what guarantees can the Government of the Republic provide that it will not continue to encourage forced immigration of Portuguese youth? Do you trust the new generations of this country? It is more than proven that, in the last four years, there have been no solid opportunities or alternatives for the future for the new generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u145	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u146	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all I congratulate you on your new duties and wish you much happiness. It is our conviction that this should be the debate of the Government's programme for the last 40 years which is most closely monitored and which puts the Portuguese more expectant. The responsibility we have right now is enormous. Defrauding these expectations, defrauding the expectations of Portuguese is not part of our instruction manual.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u147	They have no notion of any of the things!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u148	One of the essential elements that will certainly be the criterion of evaluation of this government is how we will be able to recover the social state, which has been subject in recent years to a conservative retreat that has brought more inequality, more poverty and, consequently, less development and less social justice. To empty the social state of competences and means was an indisputable design of the former majority. One of the most brutal attacks on social security was, of course, the removal of 600 workers from their duties in an unacceptable process in which the dignity and rights of persons were brought into question and subject to an unfair law, the so-called ‘requalification law’. In contrast to the removal of these hundreds of workers, the former right-wing Government has, in the last days of its mandate, endeavoured to make the appointment of new advisors, new entities for the State apparatus proliferated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u149	The removal of these workers was not due to the extinction of jobs or to the fact that they were not necessary. In some of the most affected services, particularly those related to the protection of children at risk, these technicians, with the increase of family instability and child poverty, are more than ever necessary and fundamental. A requalification law which, instead of requalifying, cuts wages and, instead of promoting qualification, promises lay-offs is not a requalification law, it is a law of "capping" of lay-offs in public service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u150	This government cannot fall into the trap on the right, it must take urgent measures to prevent the first dismissal by the previous government of public servants by the end of January. Mr Prime Minister, when is the repeal of the so-called ‘requalification law’? It is essential to reintegrate workers into the false qualification scheme, because requalifying social security is to provide more support to those in need, to whom we are obliged, particularly to children at risk, and to provide greater support to the most fragile sectors of our society. This is the expectation that we all have in relation to this government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u151	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u152	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Friday, two bills were discussed in this Chamber, submitted by the Communist Party and the Left Block, proposing the elimination of the evidence of the first cycle and the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u154	In both cases, they are measures whose genesis is due to the Socialist Party. In both cases, last Friday, the Socialist Party was next to the left parties, supporting their abolition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u156	That these parties have brought these initiatives to plenary, not strange to us, on the contrary; they were part of their electoral programmes. The position of the Socialist Party is causing us, at least, perplexity. On the one hand, none of these measures integrates the three documents designated as ‘joint position’ between PS and PCP, PS and BE and the Greens and therefore does not oblige the minority government of the PS to this Chapter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u158	On the other hand, in the PS electoral programme and in the Government programme known hours later that Friday, these measures are presented with expressions such as « reassess », « suspend » and « reponder », quite different from the verified summary elimination. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u159	Therefore, within 24 hours of the takeover of this government, without yet being known the vision of the Minister of Education, which I take advantage of to greet, and even before the Government Programme became public, it was already « dead letter », being « living letter », after all the constant of the programmes of radical parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u160	Mr Prime Minister, should we therefore assume that as regards the Government's programme, the honest word is not yours but rather that which was lent by the Bloc and the CFP? How do you intend to ensure the requirement and transparency in the public education network, having eliminated, without appeal, in the case of students, the evidence that allowed, with preventive intent, the identification of failure and, in the case of teachers, the proof of admission to the teaching career? Is Mr. Prime Minister also engrossed in the binomial demands and happiness? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u161	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u162	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I begin precisely by replying to you, not without congratulating you on your election. First of all, I would like to say to you that the Assembly of the Republic is a self-sovereign body which enjoys the separation of powers from another sovereign body, which is the government. The relationship here is as follows: it is the government that responds to the Assembly and it is not the Assembly that responds to the government. It was not enough to be subject to a prior government visa for the approval of legislative measures by the Assembly of the Republic! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to make it clear that, for us, there is no confusion between the existence of measuring mechanisms — in fact, in accordance with international good practices — that allow us to assess the quality of the system and improve the performance of the system and tests that are not intended to improve the quality of the system but simply to select the boys who move to the next level. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The difference between the measurement of a system and the evaluation of the performance of a child is not only a word game, it is a completely different view in relation to that which is the function of the school. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The evidence created by the former Government was guided by a view of the school, a school oriented towards selectivity and exclusion. The school we want is oriented towards inclusion and equal opportunities, and that is why there is a whole difference between us. And that evidence, fortunately, the Assembly will eliminate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I now reply to Mr Soares, whom I welcome with particular pleasure, saying that the legislation currently in force self-denominated requalification will be suspended, because it is not requalification, it is simply legislation aimed at dismissal and loss of income by public officials. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can say, without prejudice to what Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security may later develop when he does his intervention in this debate, that what happened in the previous Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security is working quickly to cover up the unfair situation in which hundreds of employees who have been away and who are, in fact, indispensable for the proper functioning of services essential for early detection and combating child poverty, including child and youth protection committees, from which many and many children's educators have been removed are absolutely essential to the good performance and good functioning of the system, and this will be as brief as possible. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] On matters relating to youth, I wanted to say that it was indeed one of the social segments most penalized by the policy of the previous government — it was in education and, above all, in the prospects of access and integration into the labour market. The bleeding of young emigration is one of the dramas that the country has to stop and manage to reverse, and there is only one way to do it: to restore trust to young people in the future of the country. The first sign of confidence is to contradict the message of the previous government. The message from the previous government was to tell the young people « go away because they have no future in Portugal » and what we want to say to the young people is « come back because without you Portugal has no future ». [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] For this to happen it is necessary to combat precariousness in working relationships. For this to happen, it is necessary to have, as I said here, active employment policies that focus on what is essential: not to spend money on subsidizing precariousness but to concentrate resources on job creation for young people and qualified young people, because it is not only a way of setting and benefiting from their talent, but also to benefit from their momentum and essential contribution to modernising our business fabric and public administration. It is that the programme that we have to consider the creation of centres of competence in the Public Administration also aims to act and recruit, rejuvenating the management frameworks with a set of qualified young people who can serve, in a cross-sectional manner, all the action of the State, qualifying our administration. There is a particularly important sector, and it has to do with universities and research centres, where, as a result of the restrictions on recruitment, the result of the ageing of the frameworks and the result of the mass migration of young frames, a very serious generation gap has been created for the future of these institutions and to ensure a healthy transition of generations within the framework of the institutions. That is why the Government Programme provides for a specific plan for young researchers to be recruited in order to stabilize the research career and to be able to set talent indispensable to the future of the development of science and the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to remind you that one of the most important measures of the Government Programme is what we have designated as a contract-management. That is, it is possible, from a certain age, to undergo an early but part-time reform with the counterpart of the recruitment of an entire young person. It is a way of combining the knowledge of experience made with knowledge and knowledge acquired in higher education. It is a way to strengthen solidarity between generations and it is a way to ensure, also at company level, a transition of generations without moments of rupture which would indeed be extremely penalizing. And this means that for this government there is a fundamental priority in restoring the confidence of Portuguese youth in the future of our country, without which, the country, could hardly have a future. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, the latter are, of course, the first and, being the PPD / PSD the largest parliamentary bench, should be treated as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u163	The seconds are the first! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u164	I would like to say, in order to reassure the honourable Member, that when the motion for rejection tabled by the PPD / PSD and the CDS-PP is voted tomorrow, there are two things we will know: the first is that the PPD / PSD and the CDS-PP continue to be minority in this Assembly of the Republic. And they continue to be in minority in this Assembly of the Republic for one and only reason: because they had almost 1 million votes less than the rest of the elections held last October 4. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u165	That's 300 grand more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u166	But there is one question that we do not know and that, I must say to you, I am very curious to know, which is the following: they will propose to reject this Government Programme, they will propose the resignation of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u167	Always! Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u168	And I ask: what alternative do they present to the country in relation to this government? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u169	They liked the result of the elections they wanted to repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u170	It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this question... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I realized you liked the question so much that I'm going to repeat it... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Tomorrow, when they present the motion of rejection, there is a question that the Portuguese will ask and I ask: what is the alternative they present to the country? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u171	It's the one you're in charge of!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u172	I would like to remind you, because I have already seen that it is good on dates, that on the night of October 4 I said, as leader of the Socialist Party, that the PS would never overthrow a government without an alternative government solution to provide the country and that we would never be an opposition of boot below and of obstruction by obstruction! And that means we said that we would not vote for any motion of rejection without a government alternative being previously guaranteed. And this, as you well said, was a responsible attitude. Now, I must tell you that not taking this attitude is an irresponsible attitude. Because overthrowing governments without having an alternative, that is, it is not to be able to meet the responsibilities we have toward the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the issue that so much distress, by the sight of so many days and so many hours, as soon as possible, I will be able to make a record of my participation, three days later, at the TSF Forum, where I reply very clearly to this question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u173	Answer it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u174	This is where you have to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u175	You may thus have the opportunity to see how late you are in the doubts they keep and that they have been clarified for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u177	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u178	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u179	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u180	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, requested by this bench and me, referred the answer to a possible statement he has made on a radio programme. I would ask Mr President, because it is the floor of this House, to ask the Prime Minister to have him distribute, even during this debate, since he has tried to answer the legitimate questions asked him, the answers, so that, once and for all, the Portuguese may know which non-contributory social benefits Mr. Prime Minister intends to cut. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the third round of requests for clarification. To this end, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u182	Mr President, Prime Minister, the debate of this Government's programme has a particular meaning for Portuguese democracy and has a huge expectation and a lot of hope for the Portuguese, which cannot be disappointed. This solution results directly from the popular will expressed in the elections of October 4, which unequivocally condemned by a large majority the governance of the PSD and CDS over the past four and a half years. This expression of popular will required not only a change of people, but basically a change of policy, a turn of page in policies of impoverishment, unemployment, precariousness, increase of exploitation, forced emigration, violation of fundamental rights, permanent confrontation with the Constitution, of the savage privatization of public goods and public heritage. Therefore, this desire expressed by the Portuguese people, expressed in the diversity of political options, but giving a significant majority to the condemnation of this policy, has translated into the composition of this Assembly of the Republic and has translated into the responsibility that we assume here — on our part — to prevent the continuation of this policy. And that is why we here, with all our conviction, rejected this failed attempt by the government of presidential initiative a few weeks ago, in spite of the opinion of the political parties with parliamentary representation and the election results and which has caused the country to lose these two months that we will surely lack a lot. Having arrived here, Prime Minister, there are two facts that need to be highlighted and which contradict the speech that the right has been making. One of them is the reality of the country's economic situation, which is being evidenced by official data. In fact, that curtain of smoke, with which, during the electoral period, the right sought to convince the Portuguese of the great successes of their policy, is being completely denied today by the reality in which the country is located. Another fact has to do with the alarm that the right sought to sow. If we remember what a few weeks ago was said and written, by this country outside, if this government solution, whose programs we are discussing today, would become reality, the country today would be in absolute chaos. We would be facing a run to the banks, we would be facing capital leaks, we would be facing a situation like the one mentioned by an old CDS Member, who wrote in a newspaper, in an opinion paper, that he was planning to advise the children to emigrate and flee from here if this solution became reality. Therefore, we have verified, Mr. Prime Minister, that the right alarmism is inversely proportional to the optimism with which the Portuguese face the near future, because, in fact, none of this is actually happening. Mr Prime Minister, the point we would like to highlight at the moment is that there is indeed a huge hope for the Portuguese to have a real political change, and for that it is essential that this Government fulfil the commitments it has made towards the Portuguese and that it fulfils the commitments that we all have made in making this government solution possible. It is that, unlike the right, which simulated differences when it agreed, we do not need to simulate differences; they are known, assumed and transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u183	Clear differences! That's very good for governance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u184	And what we assume is convergences so that the country can get out of this difficult situation in which it fell. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u185	Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I begin by calling my question to which Mr Hugo Lopes Soares did not answer. You, in this debate, have already been very clear in your good intentions: you said that the government depends on Parliament, that the government will do everything in an effective and ready cordial relationship with Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, VV. For example, they want to cut into social benefits subject to the condition of resources, which are the benefits given to the most deprived persons. V. Ex.a. is requested on which such benefits are subject to the condition of resources that VV. They are going to cut and what is your reply to Parliament, to this Parliament that you have spent the time here praising and saying to which you were submitting? And what did you say? He said: « listen to what I said to a radio. On a radio! Go to the radio site, go to the newspapers. Do not keep on seeking. ” We got it, Dr. António Costa. Good intentions, of course... in fact, the Members when they want to know what they think or what the Prime Minister says goes to the newspapers, they go to the radios. So, Prime Minister, you have to say, here, where you will cut off the benefits of the poorest. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, you said that this Government Programme was consistent. He even insisted, often saying: "It is consistent, it is coherent. » I would say, Mr. Prime Minister, that you have days, that you have pages, because I think it's quite the type of bric-a-brac store, like a paradox program. That's, that's what you say on the one hand in a way and on the other, you say on the other. A truly paradoxical element, which even reminds us of that little guess of when we were children and who said: what is it that she gets the bigger she gets?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u187	That's the hole!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u188	Exactly, Mr President of the PSD Parliamentary Group, it is the hole: the more you pull out, the bigger you get. So far it was the hole, but with this government it is the hole and it is the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u189	Oh, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u190	Mr. Prime Minister, VV. They say that the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund wants to withdraw 10 % for civil construction. But 10 % means 1, 4 million euros! That's it, VV. They want to withdraw 10 % of a fund which has EUR 14 billion, which has an extraordinary profitability of around 10 % per year, which is made up of discounts from Portuguese workers and which is used to cope with the breakdown of pensions in Portugal, and say this on page 137 of your Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u191	Read there, because that's not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u192	But then, on page 227 of your Programme, they say: « Strengthening the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. » Now, I did not understand how they say, on one side, cut and, on the other, strengthen. But then I got it. You know how? I read the agreement they made with the Greens Ecological Party and one of the requirements the Greens make is to strengthen the Financial Stabilisation Fund. Well, we can't understand this, Prime Minister. These 10 % of the Financial Stabilization Fund are to be applied by public and private, in very small profitabilitys, as your Programme says on page 137. I ask you, then, Mr Prime Minister, after all these 10 %, 1, 4 million euros, of the pension guarantee fund in Portugal are for what? To give to the private? To make low-cost applications? And even I ask the PCP: have you seen this? And I also ask The Greens and the Left Block: have you seen this? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] To apply the money from the social security discounts of Portuguese in private with low profitability? Honestly, it would be appropriate to read carefully what the Government Programme says. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u193	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u194	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, social rights should be interpreted in the light of this constitutional reference unifying all fundamental rights which is human dignity. This humanist and defence vision of the social state permeates the entire Government Programme that is being discussed today in this House. People are, in fact, the first and most revealing active in the country and must be the centre of politics and political action. However, over the past four and a half years, we have seen the impoverishment of people, unprecedented, and the increase of people living in severe material deprivation, which we believe to be intolerable in a social state, in a state of social welfare, but which instead has become a more distant and absent state for pure ideological choice. Almost 3 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 850,000 children and young people, who are, in fact, the highest-risk group, 1,850 000 adults and 450 000 elderly people in poverty. The increase in unemployment and the withdrawal of the State at the level of beneficiaries of solidarity income for the elderly, solidarity supplement, social integration supplement and family allowance contributed to the return of the risk of poverty to levels in the early 2000s. Portugal has indeed walked back! Mr Prime Minister, as the Government Programme has done and was well known in its initial intervention, the priority, which we have already welcomed, will be a strategy to combat poverty in children and young people. Social policies are thus seen as essential to the development of the country. They are not charity, they cannot be; they are investment in the future, We would like to know how the measures to combat child poverty in this strategy will be combined with other sectors, especially at the level of education or health. And because education is an essential foundation for the future, for competitiveness, for cohesion and for equality, it is worrying, Prime Minister, the increase in school failure rates in the last four years, especially in basic education. So I ask: what will be the goals and measures to value this great national design, which will be the fight against school failure? How will this mobilization be done and what role will pre-school education play in this fight? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u195	To request clarification in this third round, Mr. Moses Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we have heard the right — and we have heard it today — about the last four years, and we must at least acknowledge your creative effort, because sometimes they speak of an imaginary country, which we do not know which, sometimes they try to create a photograph and we realize that it is only a photoshop, sometimes they also try to say that «the previous government has always protected the weakest ». When they get here, we realize that we are already facing an exercise of mere imagination. It is important, therefore, to talk about the reality and the real future of the country. A study published last week shows that in 2014 in Portugal, 50% of Portuguese families failed health care considered essential. Why? Because they had no money to carry them out. Is that how the PSD and CDS-PP have protected the weakest in the past four years? Was it, making health more expensive, making health more distant and less affordable? This study said that in Portugal there are people who did not go to the emergency or who missed scheduled consultations because they could not pay. This study said that in Portugal, patients who gave up treatment and reasoned drugs because they had no money. This study said that in Portugal, 20% of families cut food goods or were indebted in order to be able to access health. This is the reality that PSD and CDS-PP leave us. This is the reality of four years of right-wing governance. There is therefore an urgent need for us to live in this country: the first, already realized, was to resign the continuation of these policies. But there are still others, such as allowing the return of income and strengthening and investing in the social state. So, Prime Minister, the question that I put specifically on the National Health Service is the following: what are the urgent measures to ensure that health is universally accessible and that it is closer to people? What are the concrete and immediate measures to ensure that health is no longer a business for private people but a service for people? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u197	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u198	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, with regard to the National Health Service, the priority will be first to improve the conditions of accessibility to health, while, throughout the legislature, the moderate rates at the levels that were before, so that they are again moderate rates rather than what they became, or it is real rates that block access to health by many and many citizens. Secondly, another defined priority has to do with primary health care, particularly with the hiring and ensuring that all Portuguese have the opportunity to have a family doctor, in order to ensure this service to all Portuguese. Thirdly, and since the Minister of Health has already had an opportunity to respond, concerning the office, which has already surprised us after the elections, to eliminate emergency services, he will be reassessed in accordance with technical standards with the guarantee of access to health care by the people. On the issue raised by Mrs Susana Amador, failure at school is one of the main causes in this Government Programme. On the one hand, the aim of combating school failure is to meet the European goal that we are bound to under Portugal 2020, but above all to ensure that the essential level of qualification continues to progress in Portugal. This effort implies intervention, from the point of view, at the level of pre-school education and therefore we have an ambitious goal of, until the end of the Legislature, having the generalization of pre-school education from the beginning of the three years for all children. Strengthening the satisfaction of special educational needs and improving artistic education are important conditions for the motivation and involvement of children in their school course. It is also important to value vocational education at the secondary level, in order to diversify the ways of teaching so that we can universally meet the compulsory education of 12 years as a fundamental objective. Of course, in the programme that we define as a priority that, as I said, is focused on the territory and that will be developed around the school, the fight against child and youth poverty, one of the fundamental objectives is to ensure that early school dropout and failure is maintained in order to ensure complete school courses for the new generation of schools. Mr António Filipe pointed out the contrast between the serenity with which the country, the economic agents, Europe look at Portugal after the alarm speech and, worse, after the encouragement to the alarm that was here, in the last debate of the previous Government's programme, made by the Prime Minister himself and then the Minister of Finance. Fortunately this serenity exists, because the world is used to the functioning of the normal rule of democracy. And the normal rule of democracy is that governments are generated and respond to parliaments according to the parliamentary majority that it is possible to constitute. As you well said, this is a parliamentary majority based on diversity, which does not seek to disguise differences but which assumes them not only naturally but as a wealth of this same base of parliamentary support, which is assumed with total transparency and tranquility, the same with which, I am sure, tomorrow, the majority of this House will reject the motion of rejection presented by the PSD and the CDS, just as 21 days ago approved the motion of rejection presented by the Socialist Party in this House. Finally, Mr President, I find that, although you have heard the first debate, you have not heard the answer. So, I repeat: first of all, you confuse the one who is a picture that foresees the reduction of expenditure with the existence of cuts in social benefits. The reduction in the costs of non-contributory contributions results from the fact that, as a result of a number of other measures, including the reduction of unemployment, the annual wage supplement, the replacement of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the replacement of the solidarity income for inclusion, these benefits are no longer necessary, not because they are cut, but because people are no longer in the condition that they needed to receive such benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u199	That is not what the Government Programme says!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u200	It was on this basis that you sat down the debate with the then Prime Minister. What the Government Programme says is a very simple and clear thing: to reassess and strengthen the coherence of the model of application of the condition of resources in social benefits of a non-contributory nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u201	Where's the cut? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u202	As you know, the conditions of resources are different today according to the different benefits, and what needs to be ensured is that there is consistency in the condition required to receive this benefit is whether or not it is different from the condition required to obtain another benefit. The consistency of the provision does not mean the reduction of social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u203	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u204	This Government is proposing to restore everything that you have cut out, particularly in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, in the income of inclusion, in pensions, in wages, and so frankly, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary, I am sorry, that you have much to lose in order to question those who intend to restore social benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u205	What are the benefits you want to restore? Don't go around!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u206	The gentlemen. Members may stay in the game of dialectics;... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...we will remain in material realization, in honor, indeed, to our partners. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u207	And material achievement is simple: we will be the government that restores social benefits and you will always be the government that cut social benefits. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] On the second issue you have raised, Mr President, we believe that the diversification of sources of social security financing is essential. Today, in the economy we have, the future of social security cannot be financed solely on the basis of the contributions of employers and on the basis of the contributions of workers; new forms of social security financing must be found. We understand that today we are again in a picture, such as what prevailed until the 1940s, in which income can be a good source of funding for social security. It will be recalled — I know that it is not from Lisbon — that much of the urbanization of the entire Alvalade plateau was made with investment from the pension funds, because it was an investment in creating income buildings that aimed to finance social security. Why has this policy not been pursued? Because, as you know, following the war, Dr. Salazar frozen the rents in Lisbon and Porto and after April 25 the rents were frozen throughout the country. Thus, for many years, there has been a distortion in the rental market due to the freezing of income. Secondly, our whole generation ended up gaining access to housing not because of renting, but because of buying its own house, benefiting from a long period where credit was quite affordable and at low cost. Today, reality is quite different and the paradigm of access to housing has changed radically. Today, the lease market, for good or for bad, is liberalized and access to housing credit will be increasingly difficult because of the restrictions on the granting of credit. This means that the new generations will face up to... Mr Adam Silva, don't shake your head saying no, because that's the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u208	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u209	The new generations will confront themselves, as compared until the 1950s, with the difficulty of the middle class to access housing if no housing conditions are created to affordable incomes. That is why the Government Programme foresees the existence of a new generation of housing policies, because, in parallel with the social housing policies that municipalities already develop, along with housing policies that provide access to free market housing for solvent families, the middle class needs, as in all Europe, housing policies that allow the existence of affordable income. Secondly, we urgently need urban rehabilitation programs, programs that have various advantages: improve the quality of housing, improve the image of the city space and contribute to energy efficiency by reducing the costs for the country. We therefore have to mobilize resources to be able to perform urban rehabilitation operations and create conditions for placing affordable income on the market. Now, the question is how we're going to fund this operation. One of the important and intelligent ways to do this is to diversify the applications of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Mr, it is not a matter of taking money from the Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u210	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u211	No, it's not. It is a question of ensuring that the Financial Stabilization Fund is not fully consumed, as is already 90 %, in public debt purchases or in questionable solvency financial applications, but also in the diversification portfolio, to make investments that allow them to pay for these income-based applications, thus providing urban rehabilitation, which dynamizes the economy, and affordable incomes, which serve access to housing by the middle class. But, honourable Member, do you know what the greatest novelty I wanted to give you? in the framework of the law passed at the time of Dr. Durão Barroso's government and when Dr. Bagão Félix was a minister and the diversification and type of applications of the funds of the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security was established, you know what was foreseen? It was anticipated that a percentage could be applied precisely on the lease market in order to diversify the sources of funding from the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. So there is no contradiction. What there is is diversification of applications to ensure greater security in the Fund so that we can have a more dynamic economy, a more accessible housing market to the middle class and, at the same time, strengthen the Fund through income coming from income buildings. Of course, the investment in the social security heritage itself, which, as you know, are thousands and thousands of square meters in ruins throughout the country and which can and should be the investment priority of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund itself, the recovery of its own heritage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going into the last round of requests for clarification. For this purpose, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u213	Mr President, Prime Minister, the questions I have to ask you are related to agriculture and the rural world, which is no wonder coming from the CDS bench for whom agriculture is not a fashion and has always been considered a sector relevant to the national economy and, therefore, caressed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u214	Also for personal reasons, because, just as Mr Prime Minister is proud to have devoted his whole life to political activity, I am proud to have devoted my life to work for farmers and the rural world. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] So, Prime Minister, I ask you three very simple questions. First, the agri-environmental measures designed by the previous PSD/CDS Government were so appealing that they had an accession of almost 87 000 farmers, leading to the need to strengthen the Rural Development Programme by EUR 200 million to ensure the legitimate expectations of the farmers who applied. in the election campaign, the then candidate, now his Minister of Agriculture, said that « will pay this bill gladly». Given the past of the Socialist Party in this area, I should like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you reaffirm your commitment to strengthening the Rural Development Programme in EUR 200 million or whether farmers are at risk of reliving the bad memories of the time of a government of which you were the number two and whose Minister of Agriculture at that time has met the expectations of farmers and their organisations, causing serious damage throughout the rural world. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u215	Second question, the amendment to the Baldios Act, made in 2014, brought equity in access to the buckets by sharing and transparency to the baldios accounts, preventing only a few shares from being benefited, as was the case in many cases. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u216	This amendment does not call into question local uses and customs in the use of baldiums and respects the Constitution, as stated in the Constitutional Court judgment last November. I ask you therefore, Prime Minister, which side you want to put on the side of transparency and fairness or will give in to other interests of the CFP. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, the PSD/CDS government finally resolved the situation of the House of Douro, which had been dragging itself for decades and which no government had been able to solve. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u217	The benefit of Port wine was in 2015 the highest in recent years, Douro wine growers are satisfied and the liquidity administration is starting its work so that debts are paid progressively. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u218	Listen, listen to learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u219	Question : Mr Prime Minister, does the Government intend to reverse this whole process and put down a situation which is now pacified in the Douro? What interests does the Government intend to protect? The interests of Durian wine growers or the trade union interests of the CFP? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u220	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u221	Mr President, Prime Minister, over the past four years PSD and CDS have pursued a policy of dismantling State social functions and destroying public services. What characterized this policy of PSD and CDS was public de-investment: in public school, in the National Health Service, in social protection, in the public service of culture, in the national scientific and technological system, in the provision of quality public services, while opting for its progressive privatization and mercantilization. PSD and CDS insisted on the professional and social devaluation of workers, insisted on moving families increasingly charged with health, education, culture, or access to public services, such as water or waste treatment. We do not forget the users who wait for the family doctor, the increase in the number of students per class, the students who were forced to leave higher education, the research scholarships, who wait for a contract of work, the teachers who were fired or those who walked 5, 10, 20 years to contracts, the doctors and nurses who left the National Health Service. Mr President, Prime Minister, the CFP strongly opposed these political options, fighting them. We believe that the scrupulously compliance with our Constitution is essential, ensuring all fundamental rights and the provision of quality public services. We therefore defend the public school for all, the strengthening of the National Health Service, a solidarity and universal social security, an effective policy of decentralization and cultural democratization, strengthening public investment progressively until it reaches 1 % of GDP and, of course, the exploitation of workers themselves. Mr Prime Minister, these issues which arise in relation to the social functions of the State and public services, both in the perspective of the citizens they wish to have access to, or in the perspective of the workers who assure them, are essential issues in the lives of Portuguese and issues on which high expectations are created that must be realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u222	Attention to your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u223	I will finish, Mr. President. That is also why it is important that this debate and its concrete response contribute to clarifying the prospects that the Government Programme points out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u224	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u225	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the Government programme currently under discussion refers to the need to enhance the autonomy of the autonomous regions. After a more careful reading, we realize that this supposed valorization is based on a set of excessively vague concepts, which aim to mean everything but in reality seem to mean nothing. This Government Programme does not make specific commitments to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We sincerely hope that this government will not do the same as the former PS government, which discriminated against the Autonomous Region of Madeira in relation to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, merely in view of party aspects. Knowing that there is an issue that unites all Madeirans, which is the question of building a new hospital, we would like to know if we can count on the national solidarity of this new government to frame, as a project of common and national interest, the construction of a new hospital for the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u226	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u227	Mr President, Prime Minister, the way in which a text is started always takes on relevance and meaning, and the same is true of the Government Programme. It is so particularly significant that the first paragraph of the XXI Government Programme will soon express a declaration of respect for Portugal's European and international commitments. It is therefore clear, without any doubt, that respect for European and international commitments is respected in a strengthened policy of convergence and cohesion. Mr Prime Minister has already said that this will be a guarantee government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u228	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u229	It is a guarantee government, and it will - firstly guarantee respect for the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, but also guarantee the continuity of the State in its international commitments and within the framework of the European Union. As the Prime Minister well mentioned when he took possession, this government was born of the refusal of the idea that there would be no alternative to the policy pursued in the legislature that he finished. There is obviously an alternative and, as this government will show, it is quite possible to make a difference. It is true — I know — that as a member of the European Union Portugal has several of its political options conditioned by the Union as a whole, but what is an inherent constraint to Portugal's participation in the European Union, its participation in the Monetary and Economic Union and the sharing of a common currency, I know - well, is also a huge advantage. And V. Exa has already given, like few, enough evidence to know how to successfully turn embarrassments into advantages. Now, Portugal needs to capitalise on this advantage. The voice of the Portuguese authorities must be active and committed to making itself heard in Brussels and there also contributing to the change in favour of the economy and more employment. The 21st Government programme advocates reading, which in fact qualifies as an "intelligent reading of budgetary discipline", which will go from giving priority to reducing not only economic but also social imbalances. We therefore ask Mr Prime Minister how the Government intends to achieve this goal, which is, after all, that of regaining citizens' confidence in the European social model and, in the same way, if we finally have it — and we hope so! — left behind the time when the so-called "structural" reforms would invariably result in the privatization of strategic sectors and in the reduction of labour and social rights for, as it has concluded minutes ago, we will experience a new impetus to convergence with more growth and greater equality. Congratulations to the XXI Constitutional Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u230	Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, before asking what Mr. Prime Minister is, I cannot fail to say that I welcome the appointment of Dr. Ana Sofia Antunes to State Secretary for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] I am glad, because it would be good to have a competent person in charge, but having a competent person who has a disability is much better, and even better when it comes to an activist for the rights of people with disabilities. Mr. Prime Minister, as you know, the population with disabilities is the poorest, the one suffering most from unemployment, the one with lower school qualifications. They are citizens and citizens who are denied the most basic rights: education, work, adequate housing, mobility, finally a dignified life. Rights denied to them for one reason: because they are different, they were born or were different. They are mostly people, eternally dependent on their families, because the Portuguese State considers it possible to live with social benefits of € 180 to just over €200 per month. The 21st Government Programme proposes to evaluate and reformulate social benefits towards the implementation of a single benefit which includes a fixed component, according to the degree of disability of persons, and a variable component with respect to rehabilitation expenditure. Given the complexity of this proposal, the study time necessary for its formalization and implementation in practice, recognizing us, as recently acknowledged by the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, that these social benefits are shamefully insufficient, is the Government available to promote a substantial increase in these benefits immediately, while others are not defined?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u232	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u233	Another issue, Prime Minister, is the implementation of an independent life policy in opposition to the institutionalizing policy followed by the previous Government. And independent life is to be the owner of your life, it is to have the means to choose and hire the help needed to do so, to live where and how you want and not to have as your only choice the admission in a home, where you don't even have the freedom to opt for the preferred television channel. As you know, Prime Minister, the State shares residential homes with €970, for each disabled user, homes that still charge the user up to 90% of their income.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u234	Sir, I would like to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u235	Can we count on the government's commitment to provide disabled people with this choice? Will these people be able to say that, as stated by the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, a policy will be implemented in this regard, which guarantees direct payments and freedom of choice of personal assistant? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u236	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u237	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have read very carefully, as was my obligation, the Government Programme and, from my analysis, I have seen, in relation to autonomous regions and, in particular, to the Azores, some measures on the economy of the sea, but strangely, and I must say here, I cannot find a single word on agriculture and on the production of milk and all the row associated with this sector. As I have said, I have not seen a single word because the Government Programme is completely omitted from the main economic sector of the Azores, which is that of milk, which is currently going through the most serious crisis of the past 40 years, with the end of the milk quotas, by the hand of the Socialist Party, of Minister Jaime Silva. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I would therefore like to say to you, Prime Minister, that agriculture in the Azores is present in all dimensions of economic activity: creating wealth, creating direct and indirect employment, promoting tourism, promoting exports, valuing the territory, protecting the environment, preserving nature and preserving our biodiversity. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] That is why it is a sector which could not be forgotten when we are talking in detail about certain measures and in particular other economic areas of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. If the Government programme were vague as a whole, it would not be asking the question, but the programme is very specific in certain measures and in certain sectors in particular. That is why the question that I leave here is to know what Mr. Prime Minister and his Government think they are doing to compensate for the loss of income of the Azorean farmers, which is already EUR 30 million, over the past seven years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u238	It is on page 177 of the Government's Programme, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u239	It is a situation that deserves special attention from this government, according to the electoral promises you made when you visited the Azores. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u240	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u241	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am particularly pleased to speak in this debate of the Government's programme to discuss the areas of culture and social communication, areas particularly penalized in the previous legislation. The most brief XX Constitutional Government tried to give an appearance of a contribute act, with the restoration of the Ministry of Culture. It was obviously an appearance, because in view of the strange grouping of competences of this Ministry, we could hardly understand any logic or strategy that justified that junction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u242	It was the logic of potato!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u243	On the other hand, the XXI Constitutional Government, as it had been duly announced in the Electoral Programme, presents a Ministry of Culture strengthened in its competences in the cultural sector, to which social communication was added because both sectors are essential for the economic appreciation of cultural and artistic activity, for the promotion and internationalization of our language and culture and for national cohesion and both need joint responses to the challenges of digital, and not only. Mr. Prime Minister, for your past political action, I know you don't need to be alerted or even convinced...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u244	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u245	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, Prime Minister, I know that you do not need to be alerted or even convinced of the importance of these two sectors, particularly in difficult times we still have ahead. However, I would like you to leave us here a guarantee that this Government will do everything to protect these two sectors from the continuing uncertainty about its structures, its organicity and its financing, and the reforms made with incomprehensible superficiality and even the defiance of the previous Government. Mr Prime Minister, science, culture and education are indeed pillars of citizenship, as well as information and the right to information. We will be here to, together with the Government, safeguard, better protect and respect these two constitutional rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u246	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer all the questions as synthetic as possible. First of all, on the questions put by Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I see with satisfaction their active participation in these debates. This may help those who so much fear that the Assembly of the Republic will nullify social consultation, because they can verify that, also in the Assembly of the Republic, they are well represented and their rights will be defended here. What I can assure you is that, on our part, we will deal with all the interests, all the farmers, all the organizations, all the sectors and all the regions alike, seeking to introduce justice in what is essential to the relationship of the State with the economic agents, with a view to continuing a work which has, fortunately, been being developed over the last decades and which has allowed us, today, in our agriculture and in the agri-food sector, to the higher economic sectors and which have better contributed to the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy. This continuity will certainly exist. With regard to the lack of budgetary allocation in some headings, of course, we are doing what we have to do, which is to seek good management of the Budget, in order to cover the failures where they exist, but without sacrificing an objective which I believe is common to all of us and which, a little while ago, was so important to the leader of your parliamentary bench, that it is to ensure that Portugal, by this government, will not fail to meet the goals and leave the procedure due to excessive deficit from the end of this year. As regards the legislation of the baldiums, the evaluation we make is different from what we do, but we will proceed to review, in order to correct injustices resulting from the application of this legislation, and we will follow the process of the House of Douro, with the guarantee that there is no distortion in the preservation of the rights and equality of all concerned. With regard to what Mrs Paula Santos has said, there is a fundamental commitment in this Government Programme, moreover, strengthened on the basis of the agreements established with the CFP, the Left and the Green bloc, with a view to the construction of the majority of support to this Government, which is the strengthening and defence of public services in Portugal. And this defence seems particularly important to me because it is a fundamental mark of the social model in which we live, it is an issue of equality and citizenship. And that is therefore an effort we must continue. I cannot assure you, as we do not guarantee in the agreement that we have signed, that we can achieve as quickly as we all wish to achieve the objectives to which we are converging. There are subjects on which we can converge for purposes, conditions and terms, and there are others in which, despite our convergence for purposes, we still have to make an effort to converge in terms and conditions. But, as Mr. João Oliveira says, we must arrive there, with persistence and work. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, I intend to have as soon as possible meetings with Mr. Presidents of the Regional Governments of both the Azores and Madeira, with a view to trying to articulate the efforts of the Government of the Republic and the Regional Governments. I know well the priority that the Regional Government of Madeira and not only the Madeirans also attribute to the need for a new hospital, as I also know well the priority that the Azorians attribute to the need for a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada. Therefore, in dialogue with both regional governments, we will certainly have the conditions to achieve the most appropriate solutions, within the limits to which the regional governments face and which the Government of the Republic also faces. Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, I would like to reaffirm the following : we have a very clear commitment to the European Union, but we also have a realistic reading of what the European Union is. This year, in which we have spent 30 years signing the Treaty of Accession, it is a good time for us to make a balance sheet and verify what happened in the first 15 years and in the following 15 years. What we must not fail to recognize is that, since the beginning of the century, our economy has had difficulty adapting to the increase in competitiveness resulting from the triple shock of globalisation, enlargement to the East and the creation of the euro. And this difficulty of adaptation is particularly the result of economic and monetary union being created and developed in an incomplete way and still in some way today to solutions. If we remember what happened in 1992 when the internal market was created, we find that the creation of the internal market was accompanied by cohesion policy. The introduction of the euro was not accompanied by the enlargement of cohesion policy. It was hoped that the reduction of the interest rate would enable States and the private economy to finance the resources necessary for investments to reduce the competitiveness gap. This was indeed so, but it was a wrong incentive, as we all know today, which led to the indebtedness of States, families and businesses. It is therefore important to have a new look at economic and monetary union. I see with optimism and hope some signs. I see as a good sign the new position of the European Central Bank, which allowed us to be freed from absolutely unbearable interest rates, although today we have a gross domestic product below what we had in 2011 and a higher standard of living than we had in 2011. But thanks to the European Central Bank, Portugal, fortunately, it is not today confronted with the dramatic situations that it experienced in 2011. I see as positive that the new Commission, breaking with the dogmas of the Barroso Commission, attaches priority to investment and public investment and that the Juncker Plan is still insufficient and still inconsequential in many dimensions, is undoubtedly a good sign. I look forward to the Commission's communication on the intelligent and flexible reading of the budget treaty. But I feel it is essential that we take a step forward. So one of our priorities is what we have called « New impetus for convergence ». And the New impetus for convergence means the need to propose to the European Union that, having concluded this adjustment process, we now enter into a decisive stage and that it is possible to contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u248	You've exceeded your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u249	Mr President, I will try to finish, but I do not want to leave the rest of you unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen. But, I said, we hope that we will enter at a stage where it will be possible to contract a programme that will affect structural blockades to our competitiveness, in particular in the field of education, training, the modernization of the state and public administration, the justice system, and in particular to enable the enhancement and modernisation of the capacity of innovation and technology of our business fabric. That is a way of being in Europe, solidarity, but not passive, and that is absolutely essential. In reply to Mr. Jorge Falcato, who I welcome, who is pleased to meet again and who I hope now to have the opportunity to work together again, I would like to say: the Government's programme aims to be able to study and evaluate the way in which the various social benefits can be unified, with a fixed component and a variable component, in order to respond more closely to the specific needs of each of the citizens who are beneficiaries and that this is done through a fundamental principle of trust in the beneficiary himself, which does not necessarily pass by its institutionalization, because there is no reason to face the person with disabilities with a reduced capacity to manage their own autonomy and to manage the social support that it receives from the State, depending on the specific needs it has. Finally, I reply to Mrs Berta Cabral saying that we are very concerned about the issue of milk, which is not only or above all due to the long-awaited elimination of milk quotas, but to the very strong impact that has had the European Union embargo on Russia. [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u250	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u251	I will now finish, Mr President. Again recently, I had the opportunity to meet with the President of the Agricultural Azores Federation, Jorge Rita, who spoke to me, and I could hear, the aspirations of the Azorian farm. We are working, and we will work with the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to respond in the best way to the specific situation of the Azores. Mrs Inês de Medeiros, praising me in our friendship, I will not respond so as not to disrespect Mr President any more. [[The PS Inês de Medeiros Member's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u252	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u253	And I conclude, Mr President, if you do not mind, expressing here in advance my solidarity with the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Passos Coelho and, despite his absence, Paulo Portas, because, being now in the circumstances in which I was in the parliamentary debate on the Programme of the previous Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u254	No, no! We're not in the same situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u255	... they will certainly be blamed by their bench colleagues for not using the word today and having lost the opportunity to confront me directly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u256	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u257	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u258	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u259	It's about running the jobs, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u260	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u261	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u262	Mr President, the Prime Minister himself has also come to make an inquiry about the conduct of workers and about the fact that Dr. Paulo Portas has not intervened. I shall reply very briefly to the Prime Minister with a sentence that now, more than ever, strangely, must be dear to him: 'Look, no, look no! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u263	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u264	Mr Luís Montenegro, is it also to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, is it not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u265	Mr. President, in the same manner as the previous appeal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u266	Of course, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u267	... very quickly, I also wanted to tell Mr. Prime Minister that the circumstance in which Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho and Dr. Paulo Portas find themselves today is quite different from that in which Dr. António Costa was found three weeks ago. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u268	It is that they won the elections, did not lose them, nor did they want to take the government that the people chose to be the protagonist of others. It's very different! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] You wanted to put the government down,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u269	Mr President, your question has nothing to do with the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u270	... I had the opportunity to tell what was coming and I didn't want to do it on the first day of that debate. It's a completely different situation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u271	Your explanation has little to do with the conduct of the work, Mr Luís Montenegro. I shall now give the floor to Mr. Carlos César, who will also speak to the Bureau about the conduct of the work. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u272	Mr President, it is just to remind you and, through you, all Members that all Members in this House are equal. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u273	They are the same as those who have already been from the government and those who have passed by for the government. It is therefore the duty of all of us to intervene in the debates and, on that occasion, we note very much the lack of those who criticized the Prime Minister when, in the same circumstances, he did not use the word. Look at it, look at it, sir! [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u274	We shall move on to the debate of the 21st Constitutional Government Programme ( agenda item 2). Several Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Marco António Costa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The assessment we make here today is not only from the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. It is also the political process that led to the investment of this government. And such an assessment can only lead to a conclusion: the conclusion that we live in a strange time. A time when democratic will, reason and practice are subject to party experiments. A time when someone wants the weirdo to become normal and the anomalous becomes natural. For us, it makes no sense such conjugation of ideas and for us we will not align these principles. Because the programme we are discussing here is a programme that the Portuguese citizens have not supported, because it is the programme of a government that the Portuguese have not chosen and because the indisputable reality is only one: on 4 October, the Portuguese have freely and democratically chosen a winner and a clear governmental solution, which has been overthrown in this Parliament by the socialist and communist coalition that now supports this XXI constitutional government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u276	on October 4, the Portuguese said very clearly what was the project they wanted for the country: the government project that was proposed to them by the PSD and the CDS. And, on that night, they clearly supported not only a proposal for the future as they endorsed the path that brought us here. A path in which many wanted to put obstacles, but which, by virtue of the Portuguese, was successfully travelled. A path that has brought us the lost prestige and respect of our international and European partners. A path that, on that night, received the last political assessment and the one that matters most: the assessment of the Portuguese who voted for the way to continue and which, in this unequivocal way, refused to go back. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: None of us ignores that the way in which we followed was difficult. I'd say it was really hard. And no one hides what have been needed, since 2011, enormous sacrifices to overcome the difficulties. But also no one forgets — and I stress, no one forgets — that respect for this past effort imposes special responsibilities on rulers in the present and future. That is why we are clear, of course, on a first requirement: that we do not turn back and respect the work and the sense of delivery that the Portuguese put in the recovery of Portugal. Because, more than anything else, the Portuguese do not deserve the reward for overcoming the difficulties is the return of instability, uncertainty and uncalculated forwardness. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] on the contrary, what the Portuguese want and what the Portuguese deserve is that they continue the work that has been done, because this is how it guarantees the maintenance of Portugal's economic growth and social recovery. But today, and a few weeks after the elections, the scenario is another. I insist : it is an atypical, abnormal and bizarre scenario. A scenario that we fear will make Portugal return to 2011, destroying the recovery effort that the country has already made. The country we left in 2015 is not the country we found in June 2011. This is why it is important to record and remember, for future memory, four important data. We received the country with a deficit of 11 % and delivered the country with a deficit of 3 %; we received the country in recession and gave the country with the economy to grow homologously several quarters; we received a country unable to finance, without access to credit, and we delivered a country with historically low interest rates; we received the country with a galloping unemployment and gave up the country with unemployment to decrease since January 2013. Finally, we also recall that we received a country with minimum social and rural pensions and the frozen national minimum wage and it was the PSD/CDS government that, in the context of social consultation and within a profound and fruitful social dialogue, promoted the freezing and updating of these incomes. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members : Many have been the attempts made by some front leaders to support this socialist and communist government to twist reality and try, as it is, its stamp, to rewrite the story, trying to erase the facts I have just listed. And they still try to sketch out inventions that can serve as an excuse for their failures. Such attempts to distort reality and cast confusion in public opinion, we will respond with moderation and pedagogy. And to this pedagogical attitude we will join a responsible and demanding position of opposition in the surveillance of the paths that this socialist and communist government now intends to take. As always, faithful to the criterion that leads to our political action: the intransigent defense of the national interest. It is something that we have never subjected to or subject to biased logic, tactical movements or circumstances expressed in more or less joint positions. Because our commitment to Portugal is not that of variable geometry, as we are in power or as we are in opposition. We certainly do not belong to the group of those who think that they can only have — or appear to have — a moderate and dialogueal positive position when they are in power.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u278	Despite our total disagreement with the way this government imposed itself on the Portuguese, the country knows that the Democratic Social Party does not turn its back on its responsibilities. Despite having political and strategic visions in many respects diametrically opposed to those proposed by this government, the country knows that we do not lower our arms, do not give up and do not desert. We can't be clearer and more direct. Of others, the country only knows that in the last four years, they have not helped nor contributed to the successes that Portugal and the Portuguese have achieved. They now speak of dialogue, when they first planted sectarianism and more radical partisanism. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: The Government programme we are discussing today is not, I said, a programme chosen by the Portuguese. It is also not the Programme which the PS presented to the voters, nor is it the sum of all the programmes of the five parties on the left that support this XXI Constitutional Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u279	The PAN has been grounded!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u280	the desire to combine so many « joint positions », which we have here at the end of the day is a mixed and dangerous programme for the future of Portugal. Let us not forget: this is a programme with real and obvious dangers for the country and for Portuguese, which calls into question the economic and social recovery that Portugal has undertaken in recent years. Dangers that reside in options, but also in vertiginous rush with which they wish to implement such options. A hurry negotiated in the name of a sdruxual seizure of power, but inevitably generating imbalances that will be fatal to our collective future. We are not here to demean the measure of this Government Programme. We will therefore concentrate on one of its central aspects: the one that supports and sustains the growth of the Portuguese economy in the artificial increase in demand and domestic consumption. How can it be that once we have gone through everything that we have gone through, this government can again insist on a revenue of medium- and long-term fateful effects? A revenue that increases imports, which demobilises from the exporting focus on our productive machine and irremediably affects the competitiveness of our companies, eventually generating more unemployment. We therefore appeal to the responsibility of this socialist and communist government not to put at risk the path of economic growth that Portugal is treading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u281	This was even fun if it took longer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u282	We were still seriously concerned when we heard the spokesperson from one of the parties that supports this government classifying the IPSS as—and I will quote—a 'customer network', with regard to the participation of these institutions in the provision of health care to the people. It is a serious statement and, above all, deeply offensive to all the institutions and professionals that work in them and have assumed themselves, in recent decades, as irreplaceable partners of the social state and as the first advanced line of a solidarity society. For us, of course, this is a sign of the return of old ideological prejudices against a free, active, incomplete and enterprising society, which makes solidarity an ethical duty and which intervenes in cooperation with local and central power. We are also seriously concerned about how this socialist and communist government aims to devalue social dialogue and to undermine, in this way, the social dialogue in Portugal, in the name of a political radicalization practiced under superior orientation of those who, in the past, have been self-excluded from dialogue and social dialogue, preferring destructive criticism and the street as an instrument of action, to work in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u283	This would even be fun if it took more time, but for the week they've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u284	Aggravating this fear, we still hear Mr. Prime Minister say here that he wants to hear the social consultation, but that he will decide independently of it. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members : I conclude by saying that it is clear to us that this government and this programme cannot deserve our support. More: this programme, socialist and communist, on behalf of Portugal and Portuguese, can only deserve our most frontal opposition and rejection. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u285	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u286	Mr President, Mr Marco António Costa, asks us the question « when was the Government of the 21st Constitutional Government programme covered such as in the polls by the voters? Do not keep on seeking. ” I give you the question: when is the programme with which the PSD and CDS have ruled in the last four years, as it has been presented to the voters, suffocated in the polls? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government Programme is the result of a parliamentary, democratic process of building a political programme. This is the result, after two elections, of the ability of political parties to agree on solutions that democratically present before a Parliament. Tell us about experimentalism. I ask you if there would be experimentalism at the time, in 2011, when in television debate the current opposition leader and the CDS leader, confronted with the possibility of parliamentary agreements, discussed the possibility of being able to be the CDS leading the government, provided the majority of parliament placed it before the Bureau, and the possibility even the CDS, with more votes than the PSD, to lead a government, even with fewer votes than the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u287	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u288	If they had votes for it, it was a different thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u289	Was this experimentalism or was it something else? Democracy. Basic democracy and a parliamentary component, democracy to function as it worked two weeks ago, as it works here at the time when, with all the legitimacy that our Constitution and our Rules of Procedure give, you submit a proposal to reject the Government Programme. It is legitimate, as it was legitimate, exactly two weeks ago. It's democracy working. But now I was also asking you if you do not understand that radicalization was precisely what led the Portuguese to reject the majority of the programme presented by the coalition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u290	Your programme is that the Portuguese rejected it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u291	... because, precisely, the majority of the voters who have supported the electors who are on this side, the electors who have elected Members representing the Portuguese, these, yes, do not reveal themselves in the loss of income, these, yes, do not appear in emigration, yes, do not appear in precariousness, they do not appear in the model that for four years, in fact, has brought results that are now intended to exceed and turn the page. This too, once again, is democracy working. Finally, one last comment, one last question regarding social consultation. I do not resist the re-positioning of it, it has already emerged several times in several debates at various times. Apparently social consultation can only be ignored against workers and when, perhaps, trade unions take a proposal to social consultation that is not accepted by governments, I never remember any bench of the previous majority, I never remember having had an outrage, an idea of surprise and misfortune because perhaps a union proposal in social consultation is not accepted and a government decides to keep its original proposal when it harms the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u292	There has been! He's wrong! You have to ask UGT!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u293	Why is it that at a time when the minimum wage is discussed and when eventually we have a proposal in social consultation that is favourable to workers, suddenly there is an 'ai' and a 'i', 'the Carmo and the Trinity', because the decision-maker, democratically supported, will maintain a proposal to improve the living conditions of workers and to increase the minimum wage? Why is it causing shock at this time and never caused at all times when the solution was precisely the opposite? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u294	To reply, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u295	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I thank you for your question. Let me make some very simple details here. He asked me what was the legitimacy to implement the Programme that we have applied for four years of governance. It was the legitimacy that came from a rescue that you signed and that we had to carry out, under a permanent evaluation, twelve permanent evaluations of our external financiers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u296	They've never met a goal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u297	And the result is that, after twelve evaluations and we have met an objective that was to free Portugal from the troika, as you so often mentioned in May 2014, we have still achieved a final positive assessment, which was the victory of 4 October, which you did not achieve at any time, nor at any other time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, Mr President, in fact, the Portuguese have chosen the Government Programme and the political programme presented by the XX Constitutional Government which you, the socialist and communist majority, have plunged into this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u298	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u299	And that responsibility you will have to bear clearly and you will have to answer to the Portuguese in view of the situation in which they find the country today and the one in which they will deliver the country in the future. I very objectively described the scenario in which we found the Country and the scenario in which we delivered it. The evidence is clear and only this justifies that the Portuguese had the will on October 4 to re-run Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho as Prime Minister and Dr. Paulo Portas as Deputy Prime Minister. That was the condition and the assumption that the entire debate on the legislative elections was established, contrary to what is happening here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u300	The elections were for the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u301	What is happening is that never before in the electoral period was assumed by this socialist and communist majority who would make an agreement that would lead to the power of the current government and the current Prime Minister. We are institutionalists, we respect institutionally all those who perform functions, but we do not forget the origin of this government and the original sin that is linked to this government, which is a government with a programme that was not chosen by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u303	Constitutionalists, but rancorous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u304	It is a government that has not been chosen by the Portuguese either, because the Portuguese have not voted for this government solution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u305	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Freitas of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u306	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Prime Minister, is with great satisfaction and confidence that I wish the Prime Minister the greatest happiness in the exercise of office. H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ex.mas Sr.as and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, My Ladies and gentlemen : It takes place in Paris 21. the Climate Conference, with the presence of around 150 Heads of State and Government, committed to reaching an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contain global warming. The city that two weeks ago lived one of the most violent and dramatic days of our recent history is now a stage in which humanity converges in the construction of a common project of peace and hope. The Paris Summit marks the change and a more auspicious future for the planet, helping to eliminate poverty and protect biodiversity, soils, air and oceans. As Pope Francis said, “we have the moral responsibility to act in behalf of the poorest and most vulnerable, those who are actually the least responsible for climate change and those who will suffer the most from its effects.” No country can alone face the challenge of climate change, the effects of which globally affect the lives of peoples, the economic stability and the security of nations. They described the circumstances as the time for submission of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. The time to affirm an alternative path, in which economic prosperity is harmonized with ecology and sustainable development, by the primacy of the person, incorporating knowledge and innovation in the design of public policies informed for the well-being and quality of life of all Portuguese. This is a programme which defends another concept on the role of the State, giving priority to social cohesion and the promotion of employment, respecting the consolidation of public accounts. A programme that prescribes investment in the economy, halting poverty and restoring purchasing power to citizens. A programme that defends the social state and public services, social security, education and health, for a fight committed to poverty and inequality. A program that defends investment in science, innovation, education, training and culture, returning to the country a vision of the future in the global economy. A programme that respects European and international commitments for the defence of the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese economy in the European Union. in the impossibility of dealing exhaustively and coherently with all proposals from the Government Programme, I highlight some of its strategic pillars. The financing of public universities was dramatically reduced by the previous government, affecting the stability and quality of higher education. This is not the way. The differentiation between Europe and Portugal in a global economy will always go beyond culture and knowledge. The country's progress requires technical and scientific skills that are largely in higher education institutions and cannot neglect the role of the University as a privileged place for creativity and innovation. Deinvesting and abdicating a quality public higher education is condemning the country to external dependence and backwardness. The current government proposes a pact of confidence in higher education, encouraging institutional cooperation and a stable financing framework, with multi-annual definition. The reform of public higher education is unacceptable, with priority being the rationalization of the higher education network, adjusting the supply to demand, without abdicating territorial and social cohesion. in another logic and in another time, all governments created university institutions, expanding the network throughout the territory. This option, which seems absurd to us today, has generally been an added value for the territories in which these schools have entered, so it is now important to develop a rational and transparent exercise of adequacy and complementarity. It is important to maintain institutions whose role in driving knowledge and culture is essential for the vitality of the most impoverished territories of the country, which is in line with the Government's intention to promote better integration between higher education institutions and regional development policies. Distinguishing priorities for the renewal of higher education must not fail to contemplate a model of unequivocal support for merit and for students who want to progress in their academic training, but who have no means, nor can they forget responsibility for effective support for economic development, through knowledge and innovation, which are today essential tools to make the national productive fabric competitive. in recent years, we have been at risk of wasting a journey that has gradually and consistently put Portuguese science on an international competitive footing. It is necessary to resume the effort of formative growth and to regain the role of science as a source and expression of the creative vitality of the country. in education and science is the catalyst force of this new entrepreneurial phase of Portugal. The return on investment in science contributed to the emigration of highly qualified researchers, young people and elders. The political ambition must support and generate opportunities for so many young Portuguese researchers available to contribute and promote the competitive development of Portugal in a global market. Such opportunities should be heated in the business environment, but also disseminated in universities, favoring synergies that are essential to foster between the two worlds. It is important to ensure the stability and balanced and fair financing of the national scientific system. The Government's programme aims, among other things: to regain confidence in the science and technology system and to ensure predictability of public incentives; to restore transparency and regularity in the functioning of scientific policy actors; to strengthen public administration with doctoral researchers; to strengthen the scientific employment programme by progressively replacing the allocation of annual post-doctoral scholarships by creating a far greater number of new research contracts; to strengthen scientific institutions and to ensure a new scientific evaluation programme for research and development units. It also proposes strengthening programmes and instruments to promote scientific and technological culture. Thus, the clear and visionary vision of the person responsible for one of the most consistent and reforming public policies in modern Portugal is restored. It is with emotion and with great affection that I lend my tribute to one of the most remarkable Portuguese who had the privilege of meeting closely: José Mariano Gago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal has exceptional natural resources, which justify integrated policies and a long-term strategic vision. The ecological exploitation of the territory, of the areas protected by soils and rivers, is a condition of well-being of the people and determining for the sustainable growth of the territories. We call for courageous environmental policies, adaptation measures to climate change, promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy and an unequivocal and definitive commitment to electric mobility. The appreciation of maritime spaces under sovereignty or national jurisdiction is strategic for the development of the country. The extension of the continental shelf and the biological, genetic, mineral and energy resources that this space contains open prospects that the country cannot waste. This design is only possible if it is supported by scientific knowledge and technological development, benefiting from the country's science network and still giving body to a technological-based business tissue that has as its centre of activity the sea. Similarly, the Government proposes to enhance traditional maritime activities and to enhance Portugal's strategic position in the Atlantic, strengthening and modernising national ports by linking them to the trans-European transport network. The Government will propose a plan to increase the capacity of port infrastructures as well as railway links to European interlands, with priority for linking the port of Sines to the rail network. It also indicates the installation of an oceanic observation centre in the Azores and the bet on the creation of a technological cluster and research applied in the areas of the oil and digital minerals fields and of naval, offshore and submarine engineering. The biological impoverishment of the earth and the degradation of ecosystems is a process that compromises the goods and services provided to humanity. The extinction of species and the vulnerability of others, whose complexity is an admirable gift of evolution, confront us with our own impotence and with a humanity indifferent to its own planet. The threats are profound and global, calling into question the ecosystems that sustain life on Earth. The threat of climate change and its impact on the planet — 50% of Earth's biological diversity will disappear over the course of this century — put before us an environmental challenge, but also political, complex and decisive for the future of humanity. The Government Programme proposes the enhancement of biodiversity and ecosystem services, viewing them as strategic assets essential for territorial, social and intergenerational cohesion. It is in this context of ecological balance that we should understand the sustainability of water resources, an essential biological resource for life and its result. That's why, too, a collective good. All life on Earth, land and water, from microorganisms to vertebrates, depends and is composed of water and watercourse dynamics. Guaranteeing basic water and sanitation with quality and accessible to all is a fundamental goal that should mobilize us collectively. in the water sector there are management decisions and practices that the current government will correct for the benefit of the citizens. I stress the reversal of the mergers of water companies that have been imposed on municipalities and the objective of integrating the urban cycle of water into a link between water supply and drainage networks. in the specific area of forest policy, the Government proposes, among other purposes, the intention to promote the progressive development of the register of rustic property, particularly in the territories under management of the ZIF (forest intervention zones), the support of the forest associative movement and the greater production and productivity of the forest rows, through the increase of areas of bravado pine and mountaineering, preventing the expansion of the area of eucalyptus, notably through the repeal of the law that liberalizes the planting of eucalyptus. In this way, a forest is finally designed to restore the balance between the economic function of forestry productivity and the conservation of multiple resources that the forest must ensure. The policy of raising taxes and cutting wages, pensions, social support and public services has failed. Its effects on the Portuguese economy and society were devastating and did not contribute to the sustained consolidation of public finances. The Portuguese economy and the finances are fragile, the fragility of the banks is greater today. The XXI Constitutional Government Programme presents an alternative path for Portugal, giving priority to combating poverty and unemployment, defending public services for education, health and social security and engaging in education and research, new economic and social policies to make the country competitive, hindering social backwardness and regaining the path of progress and solidarity. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a time of hope and I am here today to tell you that I trust you and believe in Portugal and in Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u307	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u308	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, Ladies and gentlemen : We now begin with the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, a new time, a new time in the economy and in the finances of Portugal. The Government's programme is based on a careful and detailed reading of the Portuguese economic, financial and social reality, a reality that the Government knows well and has discussed in detail. We recognize the challenges we face, we do not hide behind excuses and justifications. As this government is born of respect for the decisions of the Portuguese people, we are not here to say that the country is tanga, but we know that we are much less than four years ago, especially the young people, who we no longer have or care to have. Today, of course, we all realize, who was living above their possibilities, above our possibilities, and we know that these possibilities, today, are much smaller for the million and a half Portuguese who earns less than 600 € per month. Today, all the masks fell and all the veils lifted, we realized that the expression "clean out" was a small result for a huge propaganda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we face the challenges with the determination of those who are not bound to ineffective solutions and want to defend their country in Europe. What matters today is the future of Portugal. For this reason, the clarification of the country's governance scenario reflects the concern of all political, economic and social actors with Portugal and the Portuguese. Today we know exactly why nations fail, and Portugal has no margin to fail. Nations fail when they lose respect for institutions, which is an essential condition for economic success. The nations fail, because they lose respect for themselves, because they do not establish lasting relations with their own rules, because they are not built around inclusive ideas. They fail, because they no longer believe in themselves and their own, because they are allowed to mix themselves up by prejudices and pressures of others. We support our Government Programme in an inclusive and supportive view of the economy. We do not sell illusions, nor do we present chimeras, because we measure, economically and financially, all the proposals we make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese economy has anemic growth, in which the investment does not appear, in which, because of the efforts of businesses and workers, it has been possible to contain the destruction of employment, but this effort has resulted in an unprecedented reduction in wages and also an increase in emigration. It is necessary to combat the real obstacles to the competitiveness of Portuguese companies. The outcome of the 4 October elections has shown a vast majority willingness to change the policies that have brought us here. This change must be conducted with full respect for the obligations of the Portuguese State, from the point of view of the obligations that the Portuguese State has with the Portuguese State itself. First of all, the Government's programme gives the constitutional order back. The Government Programme restores the social contract, a contract of trust, which is the pillar of our collective life. It does so when it respects and values the public school, when it promotes the reduction of social inequalities, through a fairer income policy, when it ensures the protection of the National Health Service, an essential pillar of the Portuguese social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The time for appeals to the constitutional revisions was over. Time's up for the violation of the Constitution, not by default, but by spell. The replacement of public service salaries is accelerated in our Government Programme, not only by a constitutional imperative, but also by the economic recognition that the worsening of the Public Administration has brought difficulties to its functioning and that the devaluation of public services is also a factor of impoverishment. The replacement of constitutional normality also goes through pensions. The State, an institutional expression of the national community, is the guarantor of public social security systems and must continue to be. Economic normality will only be achieved by an effective reduction in the tax burden on families and businesses. It is urgent to ease the economic divide, so that businesses can invest and create jobs and that families can develop their aspirations with dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] however, we know the high cost of investing companies and families the abrupt interruptions in the functioning of the economic system, its financing and social support. The change we now propose is thus responsible. The government then starts a new time. A time to mobilize Portugal and Portuguese for more growth, better employment and greater equity. An economy is only sustainable if it forms the basis for action by the State, businesses and families. We understand today, better than ever, that there is a very tenuous line between the economic and financial conditions of each of these agents. Each one of them does not exist without the others. One's investments are dependent on each other's investments. This interdependence makes public policies so relevant to economic growth and employment. We know today that we do not recover competitiveness due to impoverishment, precarious work or sacrifice of the quality and proximity of public services. This strategy weakens the economy and society by evacuating them through emigration and increasing the imported component in investment, consumption and exports. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, our economic success will be a function of continuing investment in knowledge and innovation, in the modernisation of business fabric and public administration. To think about Portugal in the future is to think about the responsibility of the State, but also of each of our businesses, of our workers and of each of our young people. Participation in the European Union requires a set of duties, which are no more than the translation of solidarity mechanisms that have always been present in European construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u309	But that's what the PCP doesn't think!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u310	Portugal needs to start a period of economic and social convergence with the European Union. Budget policy, economic policy and regulation should promote such convergence. in this sense, it should be essential objective of any good governance to ensure balanced public finances. It is a commitment of this Government to pursue a path of reducing the budget deficit and public debt in the cycle of this legislature. The State Budget for 2016 will be presented as soon as possible, we have already said so. The Government will shorten the period legally available to submit this Budget. It is not desirable for the country to be in a prolonged period without the approval of one of the most relevant governance instruments. This budget aims to be the first step for the country to achieve the objectives we propose: the increase and protection of the available income of families, the relief of the fiscal asphyxiation of families and businesses, better investment conditions for businesses, the fight against poverty and the guarantee of essential public services and goods. It is this virtuous equation, between the promotion of conditions for economic growth and rigour in public accounts, which will dictate the success of the Portuguese economy in the coming years and which will place the country on the path of prosperity and progress. It is to the Portuguese that this Government intends to provide the opportunity to begin rebuilding Portugal. This is the new time, the time to make Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u311	Mr. Minister for Finance has 12 entries for clarification. How do you prefer to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u312	In three groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u313	It prefers to respond in three groups of four requests for clarification each. Thus, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u314	Mr President, Minister, I begin by congratulating you and telling you that, as you must have noticed, you are sitting on those benches on the right of the former Prime Minister, who promised that no more one hundred would be spent saving a bank in Portugal. This same right that has made this promise, which has been propagating the fiscal consolidation made by its government over the past four years, has so far been unable to explain the at least two time bombs that it left in its Ministry : Banif and the New Bank. Banif submitted a restructuring plan to the ECB a few days after having been asked to increase its capital by EUR 1400 million. A first, very clear question, Minister : we know that the New Bank's shareholder is the Resolution Fund. We therefore need to know whether this Resolution Fund has been consulted on the restructuring plan created by the New Bank. More than that, it is important to know whether the Ministry of Finance, which is part of the administration of the Resolution Fund, has agreed to the process and restructuring plan presented by the New Bank, or whether on the contrary, it has not had any knowledge of the plan that was presented to Brussels. On the other hand, if the restructuring plan of the New Bank had the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, then we would like the Minister to explain the consequences of this plan to the Bank, to begin with, and to the workers who want to know whether or not they will be fired with the threats at the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u315	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u316	We would like the Minister to explain the consequences of this plan for BSE victims who have not had a clear response from the institutions, particularly the Banco de Portugal. And we want to know what the consequences are for the public accounts, which the right has tried to hide so far. Mr Minister, it seems to us that the budget fantasy has been too long for us to continue with this set of masks and shadows, as was the practice of the PSD Government and CDS. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]] On the other hand, Mr Minister, if there was no agreement from the Ministry of Finance, we were grateful to clarify what he intends to say to the Banco de Portugal, which took account of this operation to save the face of the previous government, which has been shielded in the Banco de Portugal during this time, which is preparing to present us an account for the hold. Therefore, Minister, we are interested to know what is the strategy of your Government for the New Bank. One more question. We would like to know what Mr. Minister is going to say to Banco de Portugal, that he was unable to respond to the injured, nor to properly supervise the BES,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but he was very eager to make a millionaire contract of the former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, to go sell the New Bank, as a reward for the privatisations he did at the service of the right. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] What will this government tell Banco de Portugal about this millionaire contract? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u317	In the meantime, he informed the Bureau that the answers will be given in four groups of three, which makes it even more lively. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u318	Mr President, Mr Minister, as your boss said, let's start with the starting points. The Minister has now, in an intervention, criticized the ‘clean’ exit of Portugal. Mr. Minister, would you rather be in the position we were in, that we came to the government with the troika in here? Or will Mr. Minister be unleashing the monumental effort of the Portuguese to get the troika out of here, which you have brought? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u319	Or will the Minister prefer not a clean exit like that of Portugal, but a dirty presence like that of Greece, which unfortunately is still impoverishing today?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u321	Mr Minister, our starting point four and a half years ago was a country in recession, on the brink of bankruptcy, with an explosive growth of unemployment and debt, with a deficit of more than 11 % and long-term investment, almost in bankruptcy and without confidence. And your starting point is quite different. Maybe he's a lucky man, lucky he gave a lot of work to everyone except VV. Ex. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u322	And that point of departure is made from an economy — Mr Minister, we have learned over the past two weeks the data of the trajectory and trend — which is rising by 1, 4 % compared to last year and whose unemployment falls by 1, 5 % compared to last year. in October the number of unemployed was reduced and in the last quarter paid employment rose. But industrial production is also rising 4, 2 %, the investment to be increased 1, 7 %, the exports 3, 9 % and a deficit which we also found to reduce EUR 1200 million compared to last year allows us to aim at leaving with 3 % and below 3 %, which is so important for the country. Minister, what do you want to do to this country in recovery? A double recipe for disaster or, perhaps, a « dirty» return, which, with your economic model, Minister, comes up in a consumer shock, which the negotiations on the left only worsened. Mr. Minister, that doesn't work and Mr. Minister knows. You know that a consumption shock is wrong, because it doesn't work, especially in over-indebted economies. It does not work, certainly, because, Minister, increasing consumption in a country which is now with an increase in consumption above the average of the last 20 years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u323	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u324	... means not to increase wealth and employment in Portugal, but rather to increase wealth and employment in Germany, because, Minister, more consumption means to increase imports and Portugal leaves more external debt and in Germany leaves more employment and more wealth. Mr Minister, if in your famous magic Excel, you forgot, you have a good solution, look to the side. There are seven colleagues who have already wagered in this recipe and who, with this recipe, have led the country to failure, failure and bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, I am afraid that this predominance of repeat socialist rulers means a repetition of the recipe and therefore a repetition of the disaster. But, Minister, there is another part of your revenue and your practice that is of even greater concern to me: when, even without words, in practice, they seem to do everything to challenge confidence, the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and therefore investment. For example, I speak of the reversal of IRC reform, which stimulates and attracts investment. Mr Minister, it is not just the fact that they are changing the rules in the middle of the game, creating one of the worst ills of the tax and tax system, which is instability. They do so by reversing a reform which, by reducing taxation, has increased revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u325	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u326	And they do so, Mr Minister, perishing or putting confidence in your words completely at stake, tearing your signature. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, how can anyone, an investor, believe in a party and a government whose tax signature does not last for two years? But they also destroy the confidence of investors, Mr Minister, with your intention to reverse structural reforms in justice and labour law—and on your measures in labour law, which would be debated with you! And, Minister, they are not only questioning and reversing structural reforms that are already increasing the competitiveness of Portugal, which is pointed out by all international institutions, but also calling into question and tearing down the word of social consultation — the UGT, for example. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u327	But they are also destroying investor confidence when they want to reverse reprivatizations and concessions. First of all, get over me! — they were threatening investors when they were not even in the government. Now, they want to break contracts, contracts that exist because your word, your signature, that of the Socialist Party, was placed on behalf of the Portuguese State, saying that these privatizations had to be done. Mr Minister, also speaking in confidence and in word that inspires confidence, how do investors remain knowing that the Minister has dropped his measure, supposedly, to stimulate the treasury of companies with the reduction of TSU? Mr Minister, did not even that measure, among so many others, have you been able to maintain? Also for investors, the word given, after all, is broken word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u328	Mr President, you have already exceeded twice as much time as you had available. Anyway, as you're discounting in your bench time, there's this flexibility. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u329	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, your Programme deserves rejection because it has a double recipe for disaster. And of two, one : or the Minister knows and hides, as he has hidden from the Government's programme the forecasts of GDP and employment, which he does not include and are essential to assess his Government's programme after the measures amended by the Left-wing Agreement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u330	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u331	... or, then, the Minister knows and even wants to say but, as in so many other convictions of him, he is simply a defeated minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u332	The flexibility of the Bureau, with regard to these interventions which are offset in the time of the parties themselves, is then also offset by great inflexibility and rigidity when the time of the respective parties is passed, as you know. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u333	Mr President, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your first speech. I would begin by telling you that there is a sentence — and it is your sentence — that, I believe, will mark your entire mandate. Mr Minister said that the clean exit from Portugal was a small result. Mr Minister, it may seem small to you, but look at how small it did not seem certain to many millions of Portuguese who have succeeded, with their efforts and sacrifices, over these years, from the situation we had come to. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And more I will tell you: the size of the clean exit may not seem large, and in that I recognize you right, because it is certainly a much smaller result than the size and magnitude of the result of the bankruptcy that the Government of which you are heir has left Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That, in fact, is a disgrace of a size and size with which, fortunately, no one here has ever been able to compete. But fortunately for Portugal, not only do we not compete as I wish you, in your mandate, never have occasion to compete and achieve such a large result, because it would be a terrible news not only for you but above all for us and for the country. Secondly, I would like to ask you very, very concrete questions on one subject — and your first intervention in this Chamber — which I know is expensive to you, the macroeconomic scenario, which was a huge electoral flag of the Socialist Party. We have already heard Mr Prime Minister classify those which are the economic or financial options — one or both — of the PSD and CDS as'magic' and 'labour stuff' and we know well that your macroeconomic scenario is nothing like that, it is a rigorous, demanding and highly scientific thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u334	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u335	So from this point of view, we want to get to the end and understand everything, everything, everything it implies. Now, there are two questions that have been left outside this Government Programme and I would like to know what Mr Minister tells me about this, because this scenario has always been quite detailed and there has been even the publication of a document, a financial study, actually very useful, and I think this effort is to continue. So I'd like to ask you two very specific questions. The first is the employment forecast for 2016, which is included in the government programme scenario. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u336	It is because you are planning an increase in employment of 299 000 jobs, 207,000 of which have to do with the measures. In fact, Mr Prime Minister even said « I do not promise this, I promise it is these measures». But now, look at this: the measures have changed, several of which were planned, namely the reduction of the employer's contribution to social security, the employer's TSU, and the conciliation procedure, in a chapter entitled 'Promoting employment, combating precariousness', and had that effect. Therefore, I would like to know if I still expected the same number of job increases, if there was a decrease or if there was an increase. What happened? Second, from the point of view of GDP and GDP growth for 2016, what was also expected was a growth of 2, 4. I would like to know, with all these amendments, because this is omitted in the Government Programme, if this forecast continues to be maintained, if it has increased or if it has decreased. It is just that your model is based, and much, on the so-called « income shock ». And there are many measures in progress, including those relating, for example, to the incomes of civil servants, but not only that have an impact on them. I would like to know whether or not it is expected that the increase will increase. Finally, because there is also a slight difference in this matter, I want to ask you a question. There are several revisions of the scenario, but the fact is that in this final scenario, staff costs increase more or less to the same extent as investment expenditure decreases. And I know there are several revisions: some have to do with the revision of the initial scenario and others have to do with the measures. But as there are now several measures that have to do with this, with increased staff costs, I would like to know whether or not they will be offset by a reduction in the corresponding investment. Finally, since your answer here is necessarily finished, because there are measures that, as you say, are still in progress, I would like to know whether it is possible to tell us what agreement your partners will reach, the CFP, the BE and the Greens, in relation to the overtax and remuneration of public servants, and what effect they will have on such a scenario, which is a very demanding and rigorous exercise and which will certainly have all this widely planned. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u337	To answer the three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who have just asked for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by replying to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, referring to the financial system as follows: all issues relating to the financial system are absolutely central issues for the life of the Portuguese economy and society. And from this point of view, they must be treated — and here I fully agree with the honourable Member — as transparent as possible. The ongoing process with both Banif and the New Bank is currently under discussion with the European Commission and the European Central Bank. There are specific functions for the Resolution Fund and the Banco de Portugal, in the context of these processes, and the Ministry of Finance participates and is consulted in these processes. But, in fact, the responsibilities of Portugal to resolve each of these issues have to do with them and are in the hands of these institutions. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u339	What a disappointment! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u340	The Government and the Ministry of Finance will perform their duty in this dimension, ensuring the stability of the financial system and protecting Portuguese taxpayers from the costs associated with solving these problems. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is precisely because this is a serious problem that the question of clean exit should be treated with much more caution by the bench to my right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is precisely because Portugal faces serious difficulties in economic recovery and in solving the problems of the financial sector that they must be treated very seriously and not with the noise that I have just heard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would like to tell you, Madam Member, that the position of the Government on these matters is an unlimited position of protection of what is the interest of the taxpayers and the Portuguese State in this process. Including also the strange words that Dr.Sérgio Monteiro has recently spoken about general policy and sale of the New Bank, which have seemed totally disproposed to us and, obviously, do not please the Portuguese Government. Mr Leitão Amaro circled in, because he started from a supposed model of growth for consumption and arrived in 2015 in a model in which the growth of the Portuguese economy is made by consumption and debt. It is that the problem of indebtedness is precisely being consumed without creating income — and that is the problem of the Portuguese economy right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, the active population fell in the third quarter of 2015, 1%. They left the workforce in Portugal, plus 50 000 Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u341	And how many went to reform? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u342	This is a process that has to be stopped. That is why the Government proposes a very broad set of measures, which, contrary to what it says, are not a shock to consumption, are a stimulus to the creation of wealth in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] To strengthen the signature of the IRC agreement was what you did less than six months later by failing to comply with that agreement in the dimensions of VAT and IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government Programme is a fairly balanced programme, from the point of view of the stimuli it gives to the economy, because it is a reformist programme where the Portuguese economy and society need reforms, as is the case with the Public Administration, which has been so mistreated over the past four years, and as is the case with companies and companies financing. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u343	Mrs. Deputy, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u344	I'm very sorry, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u345	Mr. Professor is sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, what I said in my speech was the disproportion between the sacrifices and the results. There have been many sacrifices, Mrs Deputies, for so few results. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u347	So few? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u348	Madam Member, let me tell you that I am not presenting the State budget. The questions you have asked me are typical of a discussion of the State budget and not necessarily of the Government Programme, but I will answer you. I thought the 29 questions had exhausted your curiosity for the exercise we executed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u349	Not because there wasn't a deal yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u350	... that we have presented with great transparency, which was in fact very little discussed by the honourable Members. Members in recent months and for which they have now gained interest. I answer by saying that he cites the conciliation procedure but he was not simulated in our exercise, his impact was not simulated in our exercise. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I'm just doing the frame of the matter. It is also not true that there is a review of the investment, as mentioned above, or of staff expenditure. It is not true that this happens when comparing the impact of the Government's programme with the Socialist Party's electoral programme. So we should be looking at different documents. What I can assure you at this stage is that the impact on the economic activity of the package of measures presented in the Government Programme is exactly the same as the impact of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, which will surely be discussed in this House, in the context of budgetary discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u351	Don't the Minister of Finance have a number? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u352	Is TSU out and growth the same? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u353	There's another group of three men. Members who have signed up to request clarification. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u354	Mr President, Minister of Finance, the former PSD/CDS Government imposed a scandalous tax policy on the promotion of economic and financial groups while brutally paying labour income. In order to reduce the IRC rate for six consecutive years and deepen the multiple and generous tax benefits to large capital, the former PSD/CDS government did not hesitate to crush workers, pensioners, families, micro and small entrepreneurs, with an unbearable tax burden. From 2013 onwards, PSD and CDS imposed a brutal increase in IRS, charging additional EUR 11 billion in just three years, and they were the lowest-income taxpayers who suffered a higher strain. According to data published by the Tax and Customs Authority for taxpayers with monthly incomes up to 714 € the liquidated IRS increased by 209 % in 2013. at another end of the spectrum, for taxpayers with incomes exceeding €250 000 annually the liquidated IRS decreased by 9 %. These numbers, Minister for Finance, speak for you. They are well-revealed of the tax policy of the former PSD / CDS government, which has accentuated injustice in the distribution of national wealth. However, micro and small enterprises were also severely punished by the tax policy of the former PSD / CDS Government, in particular by maintaining the special payment on account, by delaying the introduction and failure of the cash VAT system and by insisting on maintaining the restoration VAT by 23 %. The CFP advocates a fairer and more appropriate fiscal policy which, together with the budgetary dimension, ensures investment and supports the financing of the State's social functions. A fiscal policy that, by breaking up with the favour of the bank and the economic groups, dishonors workers and families, as well as micro and small businesses, reduces labour taxes, increases the steps of the IRS and improves their progress, introduces a safeguard clause in the IMI or also reducing the VAT of restoration and extending tax incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Minister, these are dimensions of fiscal policy that should be considered in this debate, because they respond to the needs of the workers and the people, as well as to the development needs of the country. That is why we would like to ask the question of how the Government will respond to the hopes of Portuguese in the area of tax policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u355	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u356	Mr President, Minister for Finance, the policy of impoverishment or impoverishment which the previous Government has practised, was based mainly on two pillars, in what concerns the generality of people in Portugal : the cut-off of income and what has been classified as the huge increase in taxes, by the mouth of the then Minister of Finance. Therefore, this is extraordinarily significant: increased taxes especially from work and indirect taxes falling on consumption, how often difficult it is for Portuguese families. And, Mr Minister for Finance, this is the result of what the Greens have always classified as a gross mistake, adding to this logic the increase in taxes, which was the increase in VAT of the restoration to the maximum rate. And here the insensitivity was so great that the error was perceived but never corrected, because this increase in VAT in restoration resulted in numerous redundancies resulting from a very large closure of establishments precisely in the area of restoration. Therefore, correcting, in the short term, this error is fundamental. And, moreover, the Greens are also proud to have agreed, first of all, in the context of the discussions they have made, this correction in order to reduce the VAT of the restoration to 13 %. Then there was another thing that was very confusing to the Portuguese generality, which was related to the fact that, at the time the previous government began to cry for victory and that a huge lever suddenly occurred in the country from 2013 onwards — and we now realize that it had, stagnation of the economy — it was time to start making some returns, but nothing for people and much for the large economic and financial groups. They focused on reducing IRC in a progressive way, as they now promised to this legislature, but in an absolutely significant way, and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises would not profit from this but, yes, large companies — that was the heart of the matter. However, they refused to move into the IRS, in the matter of increasing the steps of the IRS, which was essential to ensure the progressiveity that they withdrew when they decreased these steps. On the other hand, they have created an environmental tax which, as we know, can be done mainly in two ways: by encouraging good environmental behaviors or by penalizing them. The environmental taxation followed by the previous Government was almost entirely focused on penalisation. Why? Because the government wanted to extract EUR 150 million from environmental taxation. However, Mr Minister, these EUR 150 million were no longer necessary when the previous government intended to return the contribution of the energy sector. It was therefore all contradictions that they had as their main objective to forget people—because that was the policy practiced—but always safeguard the interests of the large economic and financial groups. That is why, Minister, who can and should now take significant steps towards the creation of greater fiscal justice in Portugal. And our agreement includes some of these measures, including the fiscal stimulus to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to their installation within them, including using tax incentives to combat regional asymmetries, the VAT of restoration, which I have already spoken about, and it is also essential that the correct return of the overtax of the IRS and the increase of the steps of the IRS, in order to ensure greater progressiveity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u357	To request clarification, Mr. Miguel Morgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I wish to convey my compliments for your debut in Parliament, but unfortunately I have to add immediately that we will not start well because the Minister did not start well. Your debut in Parliament will inevitably be marked by a moment of supreme unhappiness, because you used the expressions (I noted) as "the masks fell" and "the propaganda", about the clean exit of the Assistance Programme. It is worth noting that I said it in the middle of what didn't happen to an advertising recital. But, finally, passing over it, I admit that from the comfort of a Banco de Portugal office, the clean exit is of little importance, but to the millions of Portuguese who were adversely affected by socialist bankruptcy, I would bet with you that it made a lot of difference! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I even tell you more: it reveals an immense and inexplicable lack of consideration by the Greek people,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...that, unfortunately—for reasons we can even discuss—could not have as we and the Irish have a clean exit and already goes on to the third rescue. It is a lack of consideration for the sacrifices not only of the Portuguese but of the Greek people and should be more aware of this, since now it belongs to a government with such sympathy by the Syriza Government. [[BE's protests.]] Let me also say that he said that « the masks have fallen». I did not fully understand the reference to the fall of the masks, but it was timely for what I wanted to tell you. I tell you a very brief story, which I am sure you will recognize, that I think it is important for us to understand the nature of the government and what lies ahead. The story is this: it was once a socialist political leadership who wanted to start a radical experimentalism. He wanted to seek the company of the parties of the revolutionary way and still wanted to settle accounts with the Portuguese and repeat the experience of his last socialist government that ended tragically in bankruptcy in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u359	You're not talking to kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u360	Only this political project had a small problem: the socialist leadership of this story knew very well, as all Portuguese know, that this project is tremendously unpopular and the Portuguese do not reveal themselves in this. So it was necessary to move on to a game of appearances, which involved a lot. One of them was to look for poster figures. That's why you were picked up. [[PS and BE protests.]] They have been looking for you to give a face to this political project—see that this is a compliment to you! — because they have seen, in their reputation, in their credibility, a moderate man, a man who does not revert to radical projects in politics and even, who knows, would be willing to tolerate their liberalism. [[PS and BE protests.]] Now, the effectiveness of this game of appearances has a presupposition, a very simple assumption, if not, is not effective: that its credibility remains. Now, its credibility can only be maintained under two conditions: one, that of the contributions that Dr. Mário Centeno, a technician of Banco de Portugal, Professor at the University of Economics, brings to this political project; the second is that people can rely on themselves as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u361	Is this going to be like this until the end of the legislature? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u362	As regards the first case, what we see today, when we read the Government Programme, is that nothing remains of its own contributions. We remember how you appeared, next to the current Prime Minister, to campaign for the country. Either it was the conciliation procedure or it was those mixes in the TSU, that so many were in the companies, then they were in the workers, then it was all back and then it was all back and then it was going back... that there was nothing left! But when we read the Government Programme, we find more interesting things for which we do not even need to expect an answer from you now, because in 2013 – not in 2003 or 1993 – it was two years ago, it has already taken care of giving us the answers to the things we find today explicit in the current Government Programme, which are interesting and which I think radically undermine its credibility. What is included in the Government's programme? Includes increases in the minimum wage. Look, I'm not going to pronounce myself on the goodness or evil of these measures,... [[PCP and BE protests.]] ... because the PSD/CDS coalition in the previous government approved, in social consultation, an increase in the minimum wage that you, socialists, had left frozen. So we don't get lessons from anyone to update the minimum wage. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, I repeat, I am not going to pronounce myself on the goodness of the measure. But according to the Government Programme, there will be a 20% increase, a clearly above productivity growth. What did Dr. Mário Centeno say about the minimum wage increases in 2013? He said that the increase in the minimum wage causes unemployment... [[Oh...!]] [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u363	... if this increase is above the productivity of the worker. What I have just mentioned is written on page 54 of the booklet published by the Minister. But the Minister said more about the increase in the minimum wage: 'There is a negative effect of the increases in the minimum wage in the wage variation of workers who have wages immediately above', i.e. workers with the lowest wages. [[PS protests.]] The Minister also said: 'After those who lose their jobs as a result of the increase in the minimum wage...' — hence, the increase in the minimum wage causes unemployment — '...the ones most affected by the increase in the minimum wage are the workers of low wages', as can be read on page 55 of the same book. I give just one more example not to be too exhaustive or to touch anyone. I know I'm spending a lot of time, so I'm just giving one more example that I think is worth it. in the Government's programme we also found, in an emphatic way, the promotion of collective bargaining, the most intensive use of the extension portals, basically, the centralization of the wage determination process. Now, what did Dr. Mário Centeno propose before he became a Minister of Finance? He proposed an atomized wage determination system, i.e. the opposite of centralization. He says this on page 97 of his book: « Let’s think about changing the framework in which labor relations are established in Portugal. Entrepreneurs and workers must understand that the extension of the possibilities for direct negotiation is beneficial to both. This atomization of the negotiating paradigm would make wage determination an essentially internal phenomenon to the company and, as such, closer to its economic reality'. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The Minister of Finance will certainly be able to respond to these contradictions, although I believe that this will not help your credibility. I conclude with a brief note: we recently learned that Mrs Catarina Martins preferred a rhino surgeon, who could give a laugh, to a competent surgeon.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u364	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u365	Now we learned that Mrs Catarina Martins also prefers, I assume, a Marxist finance minister in the Groucho version, because it was Groucho Marx who said « these are my principles, but, if they do not like, I have others». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u366	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u367	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, said, and well, that there is a great concern of this government, and that it is reflected in the Government Programme, by a tax policy that is a friend of Portuguese income and that promotes the recovery of that same level of income, that is what the Government Programme does when it addresses overtax issues, when it addresses VAT issues, when it addresses issues such as the annual salary supplement. The annual salary supplement—and I also reply to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia—is precisely one of the first concerns of the Government's programme and is, in itself, an extension of the IRS steps. in fact, what the annual salary supplement does is to create an IRS step in the form of a negative tax, i.e. a tax credit, for workers with lower income, who in Portugal are particularly sacrificed on the labour market, because this lower income is also usually associated with a much higher turnover and therefore very short periods of employment and many periods without employment. This measure, which is central to the Government Programme, will be implemented in the context of government budgetary restrictions and their interaction with economic growth itself. Therefore, the government will take this direction very seriously in its policy and fiscal policy, in particular of families, will be extraordinarily active. I am now addressing Mr Miguel Morgado, so that we will not enter into a too technical discussion on the labour economy,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... a subject that I will be happy to discuss with you, to tell you that I could talk about liberalism to some of your bench colleagues who have had real epiphanies over the past four years on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u368	But they take them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u369	I could talk about it! I could also ask you to read the lines before and after what you mentioned. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u370	I am not going to take my position as Minister, but there is one thing I would advise: do not try, Mr. Miguel Morgado, to transpose conclusions from scientific articles into national legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If I try to do so—and I will not abuse my academic condition either, I assure you that this is a step towards disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u371	I won't abuse mine either!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u372	Mr President, I also tell you that my honesty and seriousness, as well as those of the Government, will be judged in the light of the transparency with which governance is executed and the transparency that this action has in the discussions we have here. in another response, I already mentioned that there was a disproportion between the effort requested to the Portuguese and the results obtained.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u373	That's not what I said, Minister for Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u374	There was a huge disproportion between the consequences that the clean exit, which, of course, we all welcome, had for the economy and for the Portuguese society and between the propaganda and what it effectively meant. This disproportion brought us anemic growth, as I classified in the third quarter in chains. For the second quarter, the Portuguese economy grew zero and employment and unemployment rates, added, fell. Today, there are fewer Portuguese in the labour market. That is the reading we do, that is the economy we have to worry about, and these are the measures that the Government intends to implement, which, we are convinced, will bring economic recovery and income without jeopardizing any of the fundamental macroeconomic balances in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u375	There is another series of three requests for clarification from the Minister for Finance. First of all, Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u376	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I congratulate the Government, first of all, on the inclusion in its Programme of measures for greater justice and tax fairness and respect for taxpayers, which were so ill-treated by the previous Government, taxpayers on behalf of individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises. The exception was even the VIP contributors, who had red passersby. These measures, for which I would like to congratulate you, which have resulted from the agreement made between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, are the following: the increase in progressiveity in the IRS; the elimination of the family quota and its replacement by a fixed deduction, in accordance with the principle 'a child of a poor person before the tax as well as the son of a rich man'; the safeguarding of the home in front of possible penalties and tax executions; the revision of the absurd values of the fines for non-compliance with tax obligations, most of them when the lack of tax is concerned but only the delay in the fulfilment of declarative obligations; the reduction of VAT in the restoration. While the former Government was moving forward with the famous increase in taxes for those who work, it at the same time granted a huge reduction in taxes for large companies and the financial sector. This was the biggest fiscal bill of democracy that happened at the same time when Portuguese workers were mended in their wages and pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u377	I would also like to highlight two measures relating to the reform of the IRC : the extension of the exemption within IRC — the so-called exemption — to social participations, which increased from 5 % to 10 %, and the extension of the deadline for reporting tax damages, which has passed to 12 years and would allow the bank to pay only taxes from 2020 and which would have until that date to amortise the losses of 2008. As the previous Government has always refused to quantify the amount of tax loss that these two measures have entailed, I ask the Minister if he already has the conditions to give us that information and also if he has actually found the full boxes, as guaranteed by the previous Government, or the so-called 'financial pillow', in the words of the President of the Republic, that which greatly comforted him. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u378	Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u379	Mr President, Minister Mário Centeno, Members do not ask questions out of mere curiosity, they ask questions because they have a duty to vote. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u380	I did not want to fail to realize this at the first opportunity, because it is better to know what we saw right away. I have two questions to ask the former technician Mário Centeno, who will go right to an Excel sheet made by you, who are his author and no one else. In fact, it's an Excel sheet for which I think you have knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u381	Looks like a doctorate test!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u382	The Minister said he would cut EUR 1020 million into non-contributory benefits. I have an obligation to ask you the following: to whom will you cut and from what values? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Where are you going to cut, Minister? Is it in minimum pensions? Is it the solidarity supplement for the elderly? Is it in the family allowance? Where is it, Minister? Don't give us round answers. The question has been in the air since the journalist Graça Franco made it. You might say you don't answer, you might even say you don't know, but you don't treat us like crazy or stupid, saying you're gonna cut spending more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, the second question I would like to ask you is also a focused question. Very recently, Mr Minister said he wanted to cut EUR 228 million per year into social action, i.e. EUR 900 million during the legislature. The numbers are so certain that I can only say that Mr Minister must know what he is going to do. We're talking about money with mercy and solidarity institutions, we're talking about day care for the younger, we're talking about homes for the elderly, we're talking about support structures for people with disabilities -- half a million Portuguese people served by these institutions. What is the criterion in your machine of calculating, in your Excel, that allowed you to reach this number? Where are you going to cut? It is that with certain numbers there cannot be a round answer, Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u383	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u384	Mr President, Minister of Finance, in recent years workers have been subjected to successive assaults on their incomes, social, cultural and political rights. The costs of the free-wheel financial system over false supervision and regulation fell on people. The euro and the European Union have only aggravated the problem. The last four years of PSD/CDS government policy have highlighted these problems, adding crisis to the lives of the poor to save the lives of the rich, the great economic and financial groups and the monopolies, which are precisely the source of this crisis. On the pretext of consolidation of public accounts, the Portuguese paid billions of euros to the private bank with their work and rights in just a few years EUR 12 billion, and still lacks knowledge of how the EUR 30 billion of inequalities that the private bank had recorded in 2009 had disappeared, or rather, hidden. In addition to more general concerns about regulation and supervision, it is important, in particular, to understand what mechanisms this Government is willing to use to ensure that no worker or pensioner is called to pay for losses of banker adventures and that the bank is effectively at the service of the people and not otherwise. Two institutions deserve special attention. Mr. Minister said, and we agree, that the clean exit was forged. The minister of clean exit propaganda, now Mr. Paulo Portas, has swept under the carpet EUR 6 billion in BES and the more he may have swept under the carpet to forge that clean exit, which can still be hidden there and which matters to hurry. Mr Minister, but on BES, currently under public control, while a member of the former Government is taking €30 000 to carry out a project that is contrary to national interest, like the one that happened with BPN, it is important to ensure that measures are possible to ensure that the State is not affected and, above all, without the Bank. It is absolutely essential that the damage — and it is understood to be loss in its broadest sense — is not only about the Portuguese, the Bank's workers, the Bank's customers and the stability of the national financial system. On BANIF, Minister, it is still necessary to ascertain the dimensions of injury, the possible capital needs of the Bank and how it will also be ensured that none of these costs will fall on the Portuguese. of more than 700 million, what return is expected and what measures can be expected to ensure that these costs do not fall on the Portuguese? in a more general context, Mr Minister, I ask you that you have the Government in view of the measures necessary to prevent other cases of collapse in the private bank from occurring in the financial system and to ensure the role of the State, most important in the management of credit and currency, so that we are not limited to reacting to bankers' adventures, but to act so that they do not happen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u385	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u386	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mr Paulino Ascenção, referring precisely to the last part of your question. Today, we all know what are the full safes and what the country can and should do with these full safes. It is clear that we are talking about money that constitutes the country's debt and thus the full safes, in the financial management of the country, serve to protect it from its financing needs. This should be and so should be used to make this financial management judicious. The fiscal policy issues that we generally agree with, as you know, have exactly this perspective of restoring the level of fiscal justice, particularly between incomes, i.e. the progressiveity of taxation in Portugal, as far as the country's budgetary possibilities are concerned. He referred to the issue of IRS deductions based on the number of children. And that is precisely a measure with this content, where not increasing tax expenditure with these deductions, the government will promote better justice and fiscal equity. to Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I am going to respond, in fact, as Mr Prime Minister has done, a long time ago. There is a question we will have to understand: there is a very large difference between aggregated spending and cuts, but in terms of cuts I will not be able to compete with you because of cuts you realize. [[Applause and laughter from the PS and BE.]] Mr President, honestly, after listening to Mr Prime Minister's reply, I thought I already understood that it is not about cuts, but, as you did not realize, I am going to repeat the answer, adding some notes to have some added value.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u387	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u388	The Government's programme contains increases, not cuts: increase in social income of inclusion, in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, in the family allowance, in pensions — the Government's programme includes a recovery of the law that determines the increases in pensions in Portugal — and in the minimum wage. These are the benefits, these are the components of Portuguese income with lower income levels that will be increased. It is not « cut », Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is easy to see, Mr President, that as a result of all this effort and all this increase in the income of the most disadvantaged Portuguese, both in the labour market and in the area of social policy, there are a number of savings — not cuts — in the benefits that exist today to cope with what is the difficult social situation caused by rising unemployment and that the country, today, faces. The improvement of these indicators, Mr Deputies, generates savings, not cuts. That is the concept in the Government Programme. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] In fact, it is a very simple principle in economic terms that every new employee pays taxes and has contributions and, on the other hand, no longer receives support, whether at the level of unemployment benefit, or at the level of this social support. With regard to the questions put by Mr Miguel Tiago, I will reiterate what I have just said about the financial system. The financial system is, of course, one of the most sensitive areas of any economy and what we have to do, in the face of the difficulties of the financial system, must be done in scrupulously respect for taxpayers, for their protection and, also, taking into account the interests of the State vis-à-vis the financial sector. This is how the Government will address in particular the two cases of BANIF and the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u389	If you can answer BANIF is the first in four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u390	As regards the question of the work which you have referred to, of workers and pensioners, it is a concern, as I have just mentioned, very important for the government. That is why in the Government Programme a proposal has been included which will be implemented according to which, for example, the updating of pensions will be carried out within respect for the national legal framework and respect for the legitimate interests and expectations of Portuguese pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u391	The last group of requests for clarification is followed by the Minister for Finance. To that end, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, during this afternoon I heard him in his various speeches, I was thinking about what the last name would be most appropriate for you after so much intervention. And I see only three: Mário Centeno, the illusionist; Mário Centeno, the number torturer; and Mário Centeno, the miracle maker. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] There's no other chance, Minister, and I'll try to explain why. Because, on the one hand, Mr Minister has already said to us: "With the agreements with the left we have to increase the expenditure. Even in the face of what was the PS scenario, we have to anticipate certain incomes to people. » — more expenditure! And he also said: « In view of the agreement with the left, in view of what was the scenario with the PS, until we have to reduce taxes and tax revenue. » But if it happens, this is neutral, the deficit is equal, the debt is low! Oh, Minister, does anyone believe this? Do you believe this? It's not possible! There is no one who has rationality of thought that can believe in these words, Minister, and that is why it was useful for us to clarify them all. But I understand that the Minister is not here to clarify anything. He used the word « transparency ». Mr Minister, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has already asked you this question: have you tortured the numbers and therefore not presented us with the projection of GDP for next year? Is that why they keep the deficit and reduce the debt? What is it? He didn't answer. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila asked you what non-contributory benefits are, Minister — it is not the unemployment benefit — I repeat, the non-contributory benefits in which you will make your savings. He doesn't say. He's not answering. That it does not answer us, that we are opposed, that it does not go—at least I have to tell you that it has treated everyone equally—but even the parties that support you have treated you in the same way, either Mrs Mariana Mortágua or Mr Miguel Tiago. And because of democratic solidarity, I ask you to at least respond to them, explaining what you will do in terms of bank recapitalisation. Or is it also going to be defeated here and eventually nationalize the bank in Portugal? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u393	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, there are about 46 000 unemployed working without wages in public bodies under employment-inclusion contracts. The enormous reduction of public servants during the last government was not made because these officials were surpluses. And the proof of this is that this enormous reduction of employees only did not lead to the breakdown of many public services, schools, libraries, hospitals and health centres, because the right government solved the problem in a very simple way: it put the unemployed working on the market for public services alongside people who were performing the same tasks, with the same working hours and under the same heads, but without contract and without wages. For these 46 000 unemployed working without receiving wages the exit was not very clean there! This reality of employment and integration contracts in the State represents perversion and perversion. It is a perversion to those and those to whom they promised a contract, to whom they promised employment and to whom they promised insertion, or, in the words of former Minister Pedro Mota Soares, to whom they promised employability, social justice and self-esteem, but who actually put to work for free, under the threat of losing a benefit to which they already had the right and who would receive in any way, to work under blackmail and under the threat of losing the benefit, knowing that, no matter what dedication they put into what they do, no matter what they learn, at the end of a year they are dismissed and will continue in unemployment because the State will not employ anyone. And this reality is as perverse as these people know that that place they are occupying as unemployed without wages could be employed as employees with employment contracts. But it is also a reality that represents a perversion of the principles of Public Administration and responsibility and example that the State should give as an employer. The precariousness, abuse and exploitation of work became the most visible face of the Public Administration, and for this it is sufficient to attend any service counter of any public service. And worse than that, the social functions of the State have become dependent on labour abuse. Therefore, Minister, we cannot have a public administration that feeds on the abuse of those who should protect, of those whose social mission of the Public Administration is to protect. The State cannot be the biggest promoter of precariousness and exploitation of work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u395	The end of this abuse is, has been and will be a priority for the Left Block. We therefore insist so much on this matter that it appears in the agreement made between the Socialist Party and the parties on the left. Finally, we would like to know what measures the government will take to end this abuse and precariousness in the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u396	Finally, to ask for clarification, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u397	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I think the right-wing majority should have a little more humility to ask the questions... [[Most, most!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u398	The minority, ex-majority, on the right, should have more humility to ask the questions. In fact, we should remember here the year 2012, in which the then Minister of Finances Vítor Gaspar, according to a theory of expansionist fiscal consolidation, cut two salaries, two pensions and led the country to the greatest recession in the last four years. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u399	But they've forgotten. They have already forgotten this experience and should therefore give at least the benefit of the doubt to the Minister of Finance,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because, in fact, you have been wrong from the economic point of view. They should recognize these mistakes and have the humility to do. They're wrong! Now, I think it was very important for Mr Finance to clarify the starting point. And the first myth of the starting point is the clean exit, which has already been discussed here today. But the question that I wanted to ask you is that if it were not the intervention of the European Central Bank of the quantitative easy, Portugal, with the level of public debt, with the public debt ratio in GDP today would have a third redemption or not? The question is very simple: if we had public debt interest at the level of the one we had three years ago... that is, whose merit was it? I just want to understand — and I think that all Portuguese deserve to understand — who was the merit of the fall in interest rates. Was it from the government or was it from the European Central Bank? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u400	You want to talk about Greece? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u401	They speak of Spain and Ireland and we understand each other. The second question has to do with the « full boxes ». There is a myth about « full boxes » and there is a very simple account to do, which is this: public debt, gross debt, minus the amount of « full boxes ». The very direct question that I am asking is this: if I withdraw from gross debt the amount of « full funds », do we have more or less public debt, as a percentage, than we had in 2011? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We need to understand the meaning of « full boxes». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u402	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they seem to want the meeting to last a few more hours. But no. We are in the last request for clarification, and now we are asking for everyone, calmly, to wait for Mr. Minister's answers. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u403	The third question is about 2015. We know — and I think right-wing Members recognize this — that the indicator for measuring budgetary consolidation is the structural balance. My question is whether, in 2015, he hopes there will be an improvement, maintenance or deterioration of the structural balance. It is because if there is a maintenance or deterioration of the structural balance, it means that in 2015 there was no budgetary consolidation. That's all I wanted to ask. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u404	To respond to this group of three requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u405	Mr President, Dr Duarte Pacheco, moreover, Mr Duarte Pacheco — once again, I am sorry — has worked out extensively once again on the macroeconomic exercises that we have been presenting over the past few months. It is true that there is a feature in these exercises that I will explain, and I hope it will now be understood as a true explanation. in the transposition of the Socialist Party Election Program for the Government Program, reflecting the agreements that were made under the parliamentary incidence agreement we signed, we explained in detail in three tables the full impact of the measures that were included and that were removed from these simulations. In fact, there is a set of measures which have been taken from these simulations, some of which are, in fact, the Members. Members have already mentioned here today, which represented in this macroeconomic framework a reduction in revenue and these measures are no longer there, Mr President. And because there's no reduction in revenue there. On the other hand, other measures have been included which have a different impact on the revenue. The same thing happens on the side of the expense. The whole of these measures, those we have withdrawn and those we put in place, have an impact that is explicit in the document in which the Socialist Party approves the Government's Programme in its own bodies and which generated an improvement in the value of the deficit in 2016, in 2017 and in the rest of the legislature. This is the net impact. I can tell you the value, measure the measure. For example, I can tell you that the measure of the reversal of salary cuts in public service when compared with the exercise of the Electoral Programme with the exercise of the Government Programme, represents an increase in expenditure of approximately EUR 50 million in 2016. It happens that later, in 2017, the increase, the change in revenue, is less than 50 million euros, because they were anticipated for 2016. With regard to the single social rate and the reductions in contribution rates, the net effect of these measures in these two years is that in 2016, approximately EUR 400 million and in 2017 it assumes a much higher value because, as you will recall, these measures had a growing and progressive effect on its implementation. The result of all these amendments is clearly explained, in terms of its impact on the deficit, in the documents I have just mentioned. On the question of non-contributory benefits, I would just point out to you that social unemployment benefit is a non-contributory benefit, precisely that which affects workers with lower incomes and with higher levels of precariousness, because the social unemployment allowance is directed at workers who, through their contribution, do not have access to unemployment benefit. There is no cut in the social unemployment allowance in the Government Programme. There is a phenomenon that stems from the economic mechanism for economic recovery and the improvement of social support that enables savings. But with this, I am not saying that the values that are indicated stem solely from the social unemployment allowance, I am saying that it is one of the ways in which this happens. from this point of view, it's not a cut, it's a saving. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the question which Mrs Joana Mortágua has put, I would like to say that this is a matter which also affects the area of solidarity and social security, with regard to the Public Administration, we have the view that public support for the reintegration and integration of young people in the labour market in particular must constitute mechanisms for effective permanent entry into the labour market. That is why active employment policies must be designed and in this context the Public Administration must manage the stages it has. We believe that the use of internships for purely statistical purposes, as has been done in these areas, generates very unstable trajectories in the labour market and that is why, in the framework of the agreements we have signed, we have the proposal, which will be implemented, of the formation of working groups to analyze issues related to job insecurity and surely also with the issues of active employment policies. With regard to the question which Mr. Paulo Trigo asked me, I will answer the question for which I now have an unequivocal answer, which is the first part of your question, telling you that today the euro is not the same as we had in 2010, is not the same euro that we had in 2011. The euro is an economic institution of the greatest importance for European construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is an institution which is being built quite rapidly, but also insufficient in view of what the euro should promote in support of the European economies. The truth is that — and Mr. Paulo Trigo explained one of the policies that were recently implemented within the framework of the European Central Bank — that policy was not pleasing to the previous government. The former government for a long time rejected the importance of this policy for the success of the European economy and therefore also the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-02.u406	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of our work today. I believe that today we have worked very well for tomorrow morning we can finish the debate period and we will leave for the afternoon the final speeches and the vote on the motion for a rejection, which will still have to enter the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, thank you all very much. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 55 minutes.]]
