ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with the congratulations of the Bureau, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. We have a very extensive order of business today, so I would ask the honourable Members. Members who, as a result, would observe the times in your speeches. The first item on the agenda consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February adopting the rules applicable to undertakings and late payments of public entities, and to Bill No 747 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the law of late commitments and payments ( CFP ). The Government and the CFP, as authors of the initiatives, have an additional 1 minute in this debate. To present the draft law of the Government, I give the floor to Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I wanted to start by turning to all the votes of a good year, hoping that it will bring us all the prosperity we want. Monitoring budgetary implementation and, in particular, public expenditure is an essential element in ensuring that budgetary objectives are met. in this context, the control of late payments is of particular relevance, and the non-cumulation of overdue debts is a structural objective for fiscal consolidation, as well as for the credibility of public accounts. According to the information compiled by the Ministry of Finance, it is found that late payments in 2011 reached a particularly significant amount — more than EUR 5000 million. In general terms, the origin of this phenomenon is explained in particular by the poor application of the procedures for registration and control of commitments and the recurrent overestimation of the budgeted revenue, allowing, within the framework of the procedures, to compromise expenditure during implementation, far beyond the effective capacity to pay that expenditure. The rupture with this situation involved the adoption of stricter procedures, with a view to controlling the commitments made by the public authorities. The essential objective is to ensure that all commitments that are made have their financing secured, in order to ensure that, on the date of expiry of the payment obligations, the entity has the necessary and sufficient financial resources to fulfil those obligations. The achievement of this objective is an extremely important measure to ensure success in the recovery and financial and budgetary reputation at both internal and external levels. On the basis of this structural objective, Law No. 8 / 2012 adopted the law on late commitments and payments ( LCPA ). The central objective of the LCPA was to avoid the accumulation of late payments in public administration bodies by establishing that budgetary implementation cannot at any time lead to an increase in late payments. Although the balance sheet of the implementation of the LCPA, together with the extraordinary debt regularisation programmes, is largely positive — the stock of late payments has decreased by around EUR 2, 9 billion, i.e. more than 61 % between 2011 and November 2014, inverting the growing trend coming from the past – there are still some opportunities for improving these diplomas. Therefore, with this proposal, in particular, clarification is made of the concept of multi-annual commitment; the inclusion of financial assets and liabilities in the concept of funds available; in the local administration, the possibility of delegation of competence for the increase of funds available by the executive body in the President, together with the greater accountability of the member of the sectoral government; and the obligation to set up a reserve corresponding to 50 % of the value of the increase in late payments in the services and agencies belonging to the same budget programme, being the same for the reduction of the late payment. The proposed amendments enable the process of reducing late payments on the one hand and speeding up certain procedures under the LCPA. In short, the proposed amendments contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of the management of public money, ensuring the need to ensure spending options, compatible with financial availability, in a demanding context of consolidation of public accounts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u3	I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Sá of the PCP to introduce Bill No 747 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Delay in State payments is a very serious problem that negatively affects the lives of thousands of citizens, businesses and non-profit entities. It is unquestionable evidence that this problem has its origin in the policy of chronic underfinancing of public entities, aggravated in recent years by the application of the CFPs and the troika programme. The public authorities, without the budgetary allocations necessary to cover all expenditure arising from their constitutional and legal functions and powers, are placed in the undesirable situation of failing to meet all the commitments made, delaying their payments. The Government, deliberately ignoring this reality, goes by means of the imposition of bureaucratic and administrative constraints on the execution of budgetary expenditure and the resolution of financial commitments by public authorities. This option of the Government has led, as the CFP has been insistently warning, to the functional bottleneck of public entities and to the degradation of their ability to provide the public services assigned to them, jeopardizing the functions of the State and, in particular, their social functions. This is exactly the aim of the government: to reconfigure the State, aiming to promote the great private interests that have long sought to take over the services provided by the Public Administration, transforming them into bad business. Particularly affected have been local authorities. The application of the law of commitments created numerous problems in the daily lives of the municipalities, making management less agile and flexible and even challenging their ability to solve the problems of the populations. The health sector also faces serious constraints caused by the law of commitments, having many hospital administrators assumed that the application of this law is not compatible with the mission of hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u6	In the face of the widespread challenge, the Government is now proposing a series of amendments to the law of commitments, desperately trying to prolong the life of a law that should never have seen in the light of day. But it continues to ignore the root of the problem: chronic underfinancing of State services. While this problem is not solved, the imposition of the procedures laid down in the law of commitments has as a consequence and as an objective not confessed by the Government the functional strangulation of public entities and the degradation of the services provided by them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u8	It is therefore necessary to immediately revoke the law of commitments by releasing public entities from suffocating legislation which prevents them from fully fulfilling their duties under law. This is the objective of the bill presented today by the CFP as an alternative to the Government proposal. A bill that defends the public services and social functions of the State, stating that the solution to the very serious problem of late payments is necessarily due to the appropriate financing of public entities rather than to their strangulation, as the Government intends. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u9	To speak the next speech, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a further amendment to the law of commitments, one of the most controversial and incompetent laws of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Bullshit?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u11	Controversy, because it arose against the Public Administration, from which it received the harshest criticism and warnings. The PSD and CDS launched the most discrediting labels to the local power and the autarchs. We heard these statements as « the authorships underestimate revenue », « expenditure without having a real revenue », « the payments were to be paid », « the companies were to finance the authorities », « the law of commitments comes against unrealistic forecasts of the revenue and handling of their own revenues ». It was this suspicious and preconceived spirit that moved the government to create a law that, in addition to inapplicable, aimed at hostileing public authorities and managers. The Government has created an incompetent law that has blocked the Public Administration ; a law that has reduced budgetary management to mere treasury management; a law that has led to the functional strangulation of entities; a law that has led to the degradation of public services; a law that has particularly affected the authorities; a law that has called into question the powers of the authorities, such as the preservation of roads and the provision of meals and school transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u12	None of that happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u13	The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself, on several occasions, called for the repeal of this Law, considering -the absurd, far from reality, which reduces municipal management to treasury management. We also recall the protest of hospital administrations, who denounced being the law of commitments incompatible with the mission of hospitals, a law that called into question the acquisition of clinical material in hospitals. The PS alerted the Government to the blocking and ineffective effect of the enforcement of the law of commitments and in this sense we proposed an alternative with head, trunk and members, an alternative focused on reducing late payments, without strangling or blocking the management of public administration commitments. But the government did not want to hear and advanced against a chorus of protests and a vast set of warnings. Only four months after the law of commitments came into force, the Government gave us reason, approving Decree-Law No 127 / 2012, which clarified the procedures relating to the application of this Law. This Decree-Law and the successive exceptions that followed confirmed the incompetence and ineffectiveness of the law of late commitments and payments. The amendments proposed in this diploma under discussion do not receive any of the substantive proposals advocated by the Socialist Party, do not correct the major shortcomings of the Act and leave out a relevant set of contributions submitted by the National Association of Municipalities. This bill does not produce any significant changes to the critical points of the compromise law. Mr President, the law of commitments, the rise of VAT in public lighting, meals and transport at school and the Municipal Support Fund summarizes the wrong vision and the reducing policy of this Government towards public administration, especially for local authorities, reasons that lead the Socialist Party to vote against this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u14	Mr Virgílio Macedo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in 2012, this commitment law was passed, soon many came to the public claim that the Public Administration would be paralyzed. They were wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u16	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u17	It was forgotten that the purpose of this law was to stop accumulating late debts in the Public Administration because, indeed, socialist governments were real debt accumulators, late debt accumulators and debt accumulators without being late. [[PS protests.]] The State must be a good person, it must pay what it owes, in time and in time. And the assessment that can be made of this law could not be better. In 2011, as Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Budget said, there were more than EUR 5000 million in late debt over 90 days. Today, there are still about EUR 1800 million. In three years, there has been a reduction in debt over 90 days of around EUR 3000 million. Indeed, Mrs. Members, there was an investment in the philosophy applied to the debts of public bodies. And I remember the words of a socialist philosopher,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u18	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u19	...that said the debt was to manage, it wasn't to pay. But effectively, what this government has done is to pay debts of the Socialist Party. It has already paid more than EUR 3000 million of late debts in three years, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore worth noting that, two years ago, although the assessment of this law is positive, the Government will introduce some amendments, many of which are claimed, in particular, by the officials of the public bodies and the local administration. Clarification of the concept of multiannual expenditure, inclusion of assets and financial liabilities in the concept of available funds and many other small issues that do not alter this law in terms of philosophy, but only small rules in its practical application, are some of these amendments. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in these three years, the central state paradigm is changing itself. The paradigm of local administrations being bad payers is also changing. And this is about highlighting. It is worth stressing the signal given by the government, through the approval of this law of commitments, that only debt should be made which could be paid in the short term. It's just, otherwise, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are witnessing is a spiral of debt, and we have to stop that spiral of debt—we have actually stopped that spiral of debt. I conclude by saying that the effort that has been made not only by those responsible but also by this government, in which this law of commitments served as a beacon for reducing public debt, is an extremely positive sign that we give all economic agents. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u20	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u21	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Once again, we discuss the law of late commitments and payments. This law, Mr. Secretary of State, was presented to the Assembly of the Republic, but above all to the country as the law that would prevent the accumulation of late payments. In fact, we have now heard Mr. Virgílio Macedo say, in an extremely aggressive way, that there were debt accumulators in the Public Administration. At that time, I thought, but to whom will the honourable Member be referring?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u22	The debt accumulators are the socialists! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u23	Who wants to guarantee patients who go to their hospitals with all the necessary medicines? Will they be all public services? Who will it be? Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, the question is this: public services must guarantee these same services and serve the people. And that's your first function. [[PSD protests.]] And you do not deviate from the rain drops on debts, because they will fall on you and on the PSD governments as well! [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u24	Aren't you going? Oh, my God! I am very sorry that they are dealing with the problem like this, because it is very easy to say that when, in many cases, you and your big spender party, as we know, have been. Not to mention some public-private partnerships! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be calm, because it's Friday and it's still in the morning! The day will still be long. Mr. Secretary of State, this law has not solved all the problems it intends to solve. In fact, it has created new problems. The Left Block, since the first hour, has raised this question: the new problems that have been raised, either to the institutions of the Public Administration (hospitals, schools and others) or to the authorities, are far greater than those problems that eventually the law has diminished. However, I also want to say here, with all the border, that it is indeed very important to pay to those who are due, particularly the local authorities - and, as you know, we have no problem with assuming that there are authorships that have spent the most. There is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! But why, Mr Secretary of State, do you, in this amendment proposal, introduce a standard that aims to contribute to the opacity of decisions in local authorities? Mr Secretary of State, why is it that a measure whose competence falls within the competence of municipal executives, in particular with regard to the ever-increasing expenditure and the increase in payments, is now available only to camera presidents? I ask you why, Mr Secretary of State? Oh, my God! So why is it that in a law in which everything has to be clear, in which everything is to pay and in which everything has to be transparent, what was in the law as a competence of the municipal executive, so that all forces, including those of the opposition, who are in the municipal executives, could participate, now become a delegated competence in the mayor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u25	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u26	Madam President, I know that I have spent my time, but I will conclude with this phrase: Mr. Secretary of State, explain this to the Assembly there! But explain it also to the country and the autarchs who have the accounts in the day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the times more, because of our agenda today. For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment to the law of the commitments we are discussing today has been properly framed, I believe that by the Secretary of State. Now, it is said, Mrs. Helena Pinto, that that rule which you have referred to applies only to the authorities that have the accounts in the day, only in these are the municipal assemblies able to delegate the power of contraction to the mayor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u29	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u30	Therefore, we are talking about those authorities to which little law applies, Mrs Member, because they do not have that problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u31	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u32	But we also know one thing: they are authorities that are not normally led by the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u33	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u34	Therefore, we understand the PCP's opposition to this law, because the PCP is the author of late payments champion, Mr. Paulo Sá. I do not know whether the difficulties that the CFP faces in the law of commitments to deal with essential public services are to pay the luxury watches that the CFP cameras offer to its employees. [[PCP protests.]] See: the City Hall of Seixal pays 465 days, the City Hall of Setúbal pays 412 days, the City Hall of Alcochete pays 342 days. Where do you notice a big difference? in those authorities that had to resort to the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme) which is, Mr. Secretary of State, a fundamental part of this binomy between not hiring new debts and paying old debts. We looked at the City Hall of Barreiro, which in 2012 paid 523 days, had to go to the PAEL and now pay 101 days. That is, we are talking here about two things that work in parallel, being one of the law of commitments. And the Socialist Party's despair is remarkable and it is proof that if we return to the government, it will return to the old vices of spending what it does not have and push forward, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u35	You forget that you were ruling the City Hall of Vila Nova de Gaia for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u36	Sir, we're tired! It is that whenever this majority goes to the government it is to pay the debts that you have left there! And you won't have the debts of this majority there! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We will always go to the government to pay your debts and you, in the opposition, still say that we do wrong. We need to have a tin, Mr. Deputies! You have to have a lot, a lot of cans!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u37	Don't forget about Gaia!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u38	And besides preventing the contraction of new debts, which is what the law of commitments does, and well, of course, we are paying the debts of the Socialist Party in health to suppliers... Members of the opposition, who complain that the law of commitments prevents the continuation of public services, could speak well of the health debts that this government paid, but which you have contracted. The same is true in the municipalities with the PAEL. It is therefore clear, Mr Secretary of State, that we are following these amendments to the law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u39	Mr Paulo Sá. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Member here said that the law of commitments is a trick of the government. That is not the case, Mr President. It's not a joke, it's a deliberate option of this government and the majority that supports it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u41	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u42	... of financial and functional strangulation of public entities, an option which aims to open the way to surrender to private interests, to large private interests, of the services provided by the Public Administration. What you want with the law of commitments is to turn public services into private businesses. The Secretary of State once again came here to attribute the origin of the phenomenon of payments behind mere inadequate application of the procedure, registration and control of commitments. It's false, Mr. Secretary of State! The origin of late payments is the chronic underfinancing of public entities, which prevents them from performing the functions assigned to them by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u43	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u44	I conclude, Madam President. And we have to see what it means, in particular, to apply the law of commitments. I'm going to give just one example: in a hospital in the Algarve, as a result of the application of this law, diapers for the patients were finished and replaced by towels wrapped in garbage bags. [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u45	These are the consequences of implementing the law of commitments. That is why we say: this law must be repealed! It is necessary to release public entities from this suffocating law. This is necessary to defend the public services and social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u46	For a new intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that the question which Mrs Helena Pinto raised by me has already been answered by the Member of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u48	You didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u49	Nevertheless, let me tell you that what is currently being proposed for the municipal area is the transposition of what is in force for the central administration and, as has been said, only for the municipalities that have their sound accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u50	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u51	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u52	Which means that those who do not need the law, as has been said, end up having less of a barrier to what their municipal management is. I would also like to say, particularly to Mr Paulo Sá of the Portuguese Communist Party, that we cannot confuse the budgetary allocations with the application of public money and compliance with the LCPA. In fact, on this subject, we discussed here the first part, in November, when the State budget was discussed, when the question of appropriations for their bodies was made clear. Today, what we are discussing is that no body can spend more than that budget allocation. This is budgetary rigour. The question of sufficientness or insufficiency was just discussed. The policy options in what is the provision of public services were discussed during the Budget and the appropriations were delimited. Now what we say is we can't spend more than that. That is practically what is being discussed here. And we should not confuse appropriations with the rigour of law enforcement. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we have thus concluded the joint debate, in general, of Bill No 265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and draft law No 747 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ). We passed on to the assessment of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October, which, in use of the legislative authorization granted by Law No 74 / 2014 of 2 September, amends the Statutes of the House of Douro, approved by Decree-Law No 277 / 2003 of 6 November, defines the regime of regularization of its debts and creates the conditions for its transition to a private law association by extinguishing the current statute of public association of the House of Douro [ Parliamentary assessment No 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. To introduce the debate, Mr Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The extinction of the House of Douro is a government freight to the exporting houses of Gaia and the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). It is the culmination of a long journey in which the policies of PSD, CDS and PS have sunk and ruined the House of Douro. They never complied with the protocols they negotiated with the Douro and the House of the Douro, nor did they do in the government what they defended in the opposition. All this to end the entity that defends small wine growers and with the benefit. Everything in the interests of exporters and large producers. It is regrettable that the government, responsible for the extinction of the institution, has treated its workers so badly, ‘washing their hands’ of the proceedings. There was no word for workers, who continue to address their workplace and public bond workers also know nothing about the future or their relocation. Your future is an unknown and your life has been suspended since day 1. The rush to extinction and disillusionment in the question of workers means that today the warehouses, which keep EUR 160 million from the heritage of the Durian farmers, are without any worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u55	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u56	The real reason for the destruction of the House of Douro is to end the only entity that can defend the 30 000 or 40 000 small wine growers with less than 1 ha, is to remove the last obstacle to the end of the benefit. The heritage of the House of Douro — wines and real estate — is also desirable. This process, the government said, was for the House to pay its debts. Debts are not paid, but the contract for the delivery of the estate is already under way. This proves that debt was the argument rather than the objective of intervention. The invitation to tender should be the last resort if the confirmation of the direction or the election of the new direction did not take place within the time limit laid down. The electoral procedures and deadlines did not fall within the time limits assigned by Decree-Law and the House of Douro's management requested the Government to demonstrate that the deadlines were enforceable. The Secretary of State for Agriculture admits that they were ambitious, but he has made them, although he has often said that the regional council did not meet for lack of quorum. We also challenge the Government to prove that these deadlines were possible. If the deadlines are impossible to meet, then the government always wanted to make the tender. The period of one month for applications leaves little room for manoeuvre for those concerned, unless they are already prepared. By chance, in the region, a federation was formed that was being prepared a year ago and already assumed as a candidate to inherit the heritage, a federation that is being promoted by a man who is also a member of the General Assembly of the Association of Port Wine Exporters. The possibility of the heritage of the House of Douro and 60% of the representation of production on the interprofessional council will stop at the hands of partners and allies of the large exporting houses, such as Rozès, Gran Cruz, Sogrape a Smyngton, is great. In fact, it is like « putting the fox in the henhouse». It is scandalous to allow exporting houses to represent production in the interprofessional council, is to ignore the history of the Demarcated Douro Region, the struggles and difficulties that led to the creation of the Douro House. The Government, judging by the fact that it has not altered the functioning and composition of the inter-branch council, continues to believe that parity between trade and production is fundamental. If this is the case, it cannot allow doubts or confusion. Therefore, it is essential to give the appropriate deadlines so that the heir of this heritage may arise from the associates of the House of Douro. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u57	Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the worst reasons, the problem situation of the House of Douro and, with it, that of the region of the Upper Douro Vinhateiro, remains very current. It is imperative that we continue to complain that the result of the application of Decree-Law No 152/2014 of 15 October, which is now appreciated Parliamentally, is that of the extinction of the House of Douro, that of the assault to its heritage, to transfer to a private association put the contest, without taking care to ensure at least the minimum time for intervention in the process of its constitution by the organs of the House of Douro and that of the spraying and fragmentation of the strength and representation of small and medium-sized wine growers. The minimum balance between the professions linked to the wine and wine row is lost. He will grow who is already strong by nature and by effective domain. It defines, even to the bone, those who have always had difficulties, who have always fought for respect for their position and function, "scorping" the cup of the benefits told and suffered. It loses, on the whole line, the Durian farm and the region that was imposed on the world. Now that people, for their harm, have already been confronted with the concrete and real impact of the measures contained in the Decree-Law under consideration, more it is justified to stop to perceive the signs. From the announcement of the extinction of the House of Douro to the organization of funeral ceremonies resulting from the application of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 that some realities cannot be ignored. The public, administrative and associative entities of the region, heard in this House, have shown that they do not believe in the goodness of the proposed solutions and anticipate the inevitable evils and perversities. Many voices were heard in the sense that everything would result in disaster for the region and its people, from a set of parish priests in the pastoral area, who issued a statement, to the councillors of the Regional Agrarian Council, who approved a motion of absolute repudiation. Sentomatically, the only organization that has taken the side of the solution generated by the government, and that applauds it, has been and is the representative entity of the interests of trade. at this moment, this is the situation: the problem of the debts of the House of Douro is not solved; the workers have lost their jobs, are delivered to their lot, continuing those who had late wages without seeing the'money color' ; the region, burned by the way it has been treated, because the solution is incendiary, shudders of indignation and fears for its future. It is necessary to stop the evil effects of the application of the Decree-Law that formalizes the death of the House of Douro. We must have the courage to go back and look for other solutions, because these are not acceptable and cause irreparable damage. This is the opportunity to avoid the pursuit of the path that can only lead to disqualification. It is still possible to find the way of the stones: it begins by ending the validity of a legal diploma that has reversed the correct logic of the compatibility of relevant interests and is corrupted by the logic of the imbalance of these interests, for the benefit of harmful designs for a whole region. The House of Douro, at the service of the region and the farmers, demands changes, deserves regulation, yearns for revitalization, but for this it does not serve this Decree-Law, which should be, obviously, dead and buried, taking advantage, for this, of the deep cave which he himself decreed to be open to the House of Douro. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u59	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, you cannot make clear statements made by a Member in this House of the Republic without the minimum proof. When someone is accused of an intent process, there must be evidence, Mr. João Ramos. There is no evidence, there is no evidence, there is no objective in the diploma that is currently under consideration to want to deliver whatever it is, to whoever it is, much less to trade.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u62	First, the diploma provided for two situations, and the government was well prepared to do so. The first is that the direction of the extinct House of Douro could, herself, develop the mechanisms necessary to be able to stay with the House of Douro as a private entity of optional registration. This was done and the direction of the House of Douro did not give any impulse, or because it did not want or because it did not want or because of incompetence and inability to do so. The deadlines were possible, and you know that the deadlines were possible. The House of Douro cannot invoke that it did not know the deadlines, until its current leadership was without legitimacy to do so 640 days ago, because it could not hold elections to change its mandate. So, Mr President, if there are any intentions, you have to say what they are, presenting evidence and facts. You can't just throw the noise and then say nothing. Mr. Agostinho Santa, it is not serious what you just said. Mr Deputy used the term « assault», but there was no assault. I didn't expect to hear that from the Socialist Party, a party that wanted to solve, and well, the problem of the House of Douro, but that didn't do it in the seven years he was in government. The problem has not been solved, although the Government has put forward a proposal which has not been accepted by the direction of the House of Douro. The honourable Member is from the region and he well knows that the House of Douro, as it was, represented no one, had no interest in representativeness. What the House of Douro had at the moment was what is called, in the region, the eight grammes, which provided some service, which must continue to provide and which, with the current direction, in the liquidation process, are obliged to continue to provide, through the sale of plant health products and fertilizers. Therefore, Mr President, it is not true that there is any robbery, which is necessary to solve a problem in a process carried out by this Government, which was the settlement agreement with the direction of the House of Douro, which provided that wages were paid late of around €800 000 to the workers—before paying EUR 1, 2 million of delay to suppliers, in addition to the regularisation of EUR 160 million to the State. Now, the House of Douro did not want this donation agreement and, in its counter-proposal, it does not say a single word to solve the problem of late wages, to resolve the situation of the workers of the House of Douro, besides not to say anything about the workers with public ties that work there. So it is not serious what you are referring to. The solution found by the Government was the only possible response to the degradation situation that the House of Douro reached and, given that the House of Douro no longer represented the Durian farmers, it is necessary to find a process of representation. If they wanted to do so and if they thought they had the legitimacy to do so, they should have developed the process to stay with the House of Douro as an optional private registration entity. But they did nothing for the purpose. Therefore, Mr President, do not say that the suspension of the diploma under consideration is a solution. It's a mistake, and I didn't expect that from the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u63	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u64	Madam President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies, Mrs. Members: The cessation of the diploma requested today by the opposition parties, which was made under a legislative authorization which had a widely doubtful rectification declaration, is a necessity, in accordance with the views expressed at the time by the various sides on the steep path that the Government was promoting. from the Left Block and from other parties there was always the idea that it was an encapsulated privatization and that it was sought, the pretext of the financial sanitation of the Douro House, to change its representative character of the Duronian winegrowers. However, what is at stake today is another situation: in the attempt to implement this Decree-Law, it was found that the crime was in the law because, in fact, there were no possible deadlines and other collateral mechanisms under conditions in the direction of the House of Douro to promote the creation of such a private law association. It was a college that was a law fraud. That's what this is about. It's not about unintended letters. In fact, what we have here, Mr. Abel Baptista, Mr. Members of the majority, Mr. Secretary of State, is a game with marked letters, because on the ground, in the region, everyone already realized who is the entity for which you want to make a transfer, clean, clean, from the House of Douro, which is the CAP, the CAP and the CAP! So this is the political issue that we have to address today. And it is not a question of doing a profession of faith on the processes and on what this majority has been doing, because, in fact, there in the Douro, everyone has already realized that there is a serious injury to the rights of wine growers, producers, in the interest of third parties, which is not currently confessed. Therefore, it is necessary to stop this process and create conditions. If the Government wanted to create the circumstance that the direction of the House of Douro itself could promote its transition to this new structure, it would have done so. Do it now: it is the challenge we propose here. It is the challenge that cannot fail to be placed on the Government, the Minister of Agriculture and on the government team as a whole. Listen, discuss and respond to proposals from the direction of the House of Douro. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u65	For an intervention, Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are again debating the House of Douro, either in plenary or in committee, which is a huge advantage — and I thank Mr João Ramos, for it is possible in these debates to demonstrate that this government has been able to present a real solution to the House of Douro, since it is in a financial situation of total ruin, with a debt to the state and suppliers of about 160 million euros. Only those who do nothing or do not present solutions can criticize the solution presented by the Ministry of Agriculture. The current government has been the only one who, with courage and determination, has sought a solution for the various accumulated debts of the House of Douro in recent years, having found a just and balanced solution, as we have been repeating and proving. We must not forget that it was this government that submitted a proposal for a donation agreement to the House of Douro, and that it did not accept, in which it committed itself to paying immediately the late wages to its workers, paying the debts of this institution and finally leaving to the institution about EUR 7 million in wine and heritage, such as its headquarters, its guilds, its warehouses, among others. We are currently in the final line of the Douro House action plan and therefore we want to greet the government for the work done in this complex and difficult dossier. He managed to work on a serious solution, always listening, for several months, to all the partners in this process. It is true that the chosen path is an ambitious and risky project for the State itself, but we believe it is necessary and beneficial for all actors in the region, such as small producers, cooperative wineries, traders and exporters. It was time to stop, definitely, the accumulation of debts of the institution Casa do Douro and it was time for Casa do Douro to evolve into an association of private law and voluntary registration of its farmers, oriented towards representation in the interprofessional bodies of the Demarcado do Douro Region and for the provision of services to wine growers in areas that compete more directly for the profitability of the activity. It is in this sense that the Decree-Law is now under discussion, presented by the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u68	With this diploma, we can say that the statutes of the House of Douro have changed so that in 2015 the representation of wine growers in the inter-professional bodies of the Demarcado do Douro Region is ensured and reinforced by one or more private law associations, representative of all Durum wine growers. This proposal is again to give importance to Durian wine growers. contrary to what the PCP says, the Durian winegrowers are responding to the challenge that was launched to them. Mr. Paulo Sá, I don't know if you know the statement of the AVIDOURO itself (Association of Independent Douro Victimists) — everyone knows who the AVIDOURO is near — on November 14, in which he asked « elections to the House of Douro already! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They are the ones who will decide their own future and they are the ones who are now called to choose who will lead the new House of Douro. [[PCP protests.]] The PSD is sure that the expectations created by wine growers are high and that they will not be cheated. We believe that the House of Douro will again play a very important role in helping all — I repeat, all — without exception in defending the Durian farm. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u69	For an intervention, the floor is Mr. Secretary of State for Food and Agri-Food Research, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I pay the compliments, wishing to vote in good year, on my behalf and on behalf of the Secretary of State for Agriculture, who is on parental leave. I would like to recall that the situation encountered by this government in 2011 in the House of Douro is the accumulation of problems for more than 20 years. Its size is reflected in the state of impending insolvency, contrary to successive interventions by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea with creditors, avoiding the execution of penhoras. We are going to the facts: EUR 160 million in debt to the State and public entities; EUR 1, EUR 5 million to suppliers; EUR 1, EUR 2 million to workers; 26 judicial proceedings involving the State and public entities; 90 % of damaged assets and dozens of private entities; total inability to safeguard the security of their own goods, with successive wine thefts and non-contractualisation of insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u71	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u72	The producers ceased to see themselves in the current model and the House of Douro lost the representativeness of the wine growers and only around 10 % of them pay their quotas. It means that the House of Douro has difficulty in convening the regional council; it has no option of holding elections within the established deadlines; it has since 2010 the inability to approve its accounts; and it has limited sectoral intervention as regards the discussion of the annual benefit. In the face of this diagnosis, three possible options remained for the Ministry: the first would be to do nothing, running the court proceedings and the execution of penhoras; the second would require insolvency; and the third would be to seek a structural solution that would regulate debts and redirect the House of Douro to what really matters in the sector. On the basis of the total commitment for producers and the Durian region, the Ministry promoted the third option, with three axes of action. First of all: the donation agreement, presented to the House of Douro last June, which made it possible to resolve all the debt with advance payment of late wages, entering into 2015 without debts, with wine worth seven million euros and with the recovery of its heritage. Secondly, the drafting of a law and its respective decree-law, enabling standard for the settlement agreement—was a legal basis that did not exist—for non-taxation of capital gains, by forgiving EUR 30 million of interest and establishing a transition to a private status. Third axis: defining the principles of selling wine, respecting the rules and ensuring the stability of the sector. The Ministry operated this solution, however it was the option of the House of Douro not to accept the donation agreement, making it impossible immediately to sell the wine. By inaction or by option, the Regional Council of the House of Douro decided on the model of statutory amendment by tender. We know that eligibility conditions are demanding, to ensure that the House of Private Douro is led by those with the highest sectoral representativeness. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the duty of the Ministry to leave a message today and now: to the workers of the House of Douro and to the public, the commitment of priority in the integration of public administration services ; to the private, the guarantee of payment of wages as quickly as possible; to the Durian winegrowers, recognition for work and contribution to the economy of the country and region, which is the heritage of humanity. I leave a strong appeal to associationism so that they actually have those who represent them, those who defend them and those who discuss the topics that really interest the sector. To all those who are interested in the Douro, we say that the process will follow what is provided for in the Law and any proposal, in the grip of this Law, in an attempt to perpetuate the problem of the House of Douro, is unacceptable for the Government and for the Durian winegrowers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u74	Douro has already responded assertively with two associations. The Douro will reach the right port and, under no circumstances, this government will fail the expectations created. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u75	For a second speech, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u76	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State : in this short speech, I ask, very briefly, if we are not repeating the debate we have already made here at the time of the legislative authorization which has followed this Decree-Law. This debate has already been asked and the questions have been concrete. Do you not understand that the Government should suspend the competitive procedure, extend the deadlines so that the direction of the House of Douro can promote the transition in the application of this law? Don't expect that. Why? There were no conditions, the deadlines were strict and several other mechanisms objectively made it impossible for this solution to take place. If the Government does not wish to suspend this invitation to tender, it will be politically and legally responsible for the following solution. And she has letters marked, Mr Secretary of State, so she agreed to respond politically to that. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State tells us that workers will be guaranteed their situations, whether public or private. As for the private sector, it ensures that their wages will be paid. When, Mr. Secretary of State? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u77	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Secretary of State spoke in 20 years of trouble, but it is only unfortunate that he did not say who created these problems. Who created these problems were the governments of the last 20 years. All, without exception, were suffocating and taking skills and recipes to the House of Douro. The Secretary of State was not clear about workers, including public workers, who have not received any confirmation and are today without knowing what their future will be and where they will be transferred. With regard to the deadlines — Mr. Abel Baptista even spoke in a timely manner — Mr. Secretary of State finally replied, reading a role of difficulty, of which he found it difficult to convene the regional council, which proves precisely that the deadlines were inexcusable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u80	Mr. Abel Baptista said that the CFP talks about intentions, but I want to talk to you about facts. One of the facts is that, who is promoting the federation that has already become a candidate, says the documents of the Association of Port Wine Companies, is also Secretary of the General Assembly. In other words, it is the one who is promoting the entity that wants to apply for world heritage. Another fact is the interview he gave to yesterday's Vision magazine, Mr. Adrian Bridge, which represents Taylor's, Croft and Fonseca, in which he says the following: « The House of Douro has been the black cloud. Your extinction may allow a new thought to the Douro (...). Now we must see who will represent the farmers." Regarding the benefit, he says that « the benefit does not serve».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u81	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u82	Why don't you do it? It says: "Because big companies benefit from this system, because they can buy grapes for less than a third of the cost of production. It is not fair for farmers'. Well, he knows. The process of destruction of the House of Douro reflects the presence of the exporting houses and of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), from which Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture came. You'll probably appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u83	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u84	If I may, Madam President, I would like to say that one has an interest contrary to production, another has never been recognized as a defender of the Douro farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u85	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u86	We are surprised that the PSD, which even has the power of authorship in the region, authorities who have been called upon to submit proposals that the Government has kept in the drawer, allows the Ministry of the CDS to move forward with this injurious process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u87	Mr President, I have already asked you three times to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u88	This process is a disgrace, it is an economic and social crime against thousands of small wine growers. Decree-Law must be repealed. I'm done, Madam President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u89	I'm sorry, but I have to draw attention to the intervention time to create an equitable time and we will fulfill the schedule in normal time. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Food and Agri-Food Research has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking you for the minute that has been given to me by the Greens Ecological Party, which will allow me to explain some of the questions raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that, for every day, debt increases €12 000, for every hour grows €500 and for every minute grows €20. It's this debt time watch that we have to stop and it's this time watch that's been made in front of an ambitious calendar, it's true, but exact. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you data, let me give you days. The Decree-Law has set a maximum period of 60 days for the holding of elections. 100 days have elapsed since the date of publication of the Act; 140 days have elapsed since the vote of the Law in the Assembly of the Republic ; 200 days have elapsed since the adoption of the bill in the Council of Ministers ; some 260 days have elapsed since the submission of the proposals for diplomas to the House of Douro ; some 640 days have elapsed since the end of the term of office of current holders. We therefore believe that the failure to hold elections is due to factors other than the deadlines. The House of Douro was informed in writing that the deadlines were ambitious, but fully feasible, with work, organizational capacity and, above all, with an effective will to fulfil. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this debate. The next item is the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1154 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an audit by the Court of Auditors on measures to support socially necessary employment ( CIS, CIS + and CIS Heritage) ( BE ) and 1207 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes to the Government the urgent lifting of an exhaustive appeal by public administration bodies and all other contracting parties to employment-inclusion contracts ( CIS ) and employment-inclusion contracts ( CIS + ) ( PS ). Mrs. Members, these two draft resolutions will be discussed together, so to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, at present tens of thousands of people are working without wages. They're in schools and they're taking care of our children. They are in hospitals as assistants, but they are also in the office of an authority doing architect work, because they are architects. They are in the public departments to care for those who turn to social security or finance. They are in the day-to-day centres supporting the elderly, as are in the most varied institutions of social solidarity to support those who need it. They are doing administrative work, caring for children or elderly people, to be economists, architects, engineers, state, authorities, IPSS. Thousands of people in Portugal are working without pay. They are not volunteers, they are not people with more time who have asked for help from the State, they are people who need a job, people who are forced by the State to work eight hours a day, 40 hours a week, with all responsibilities and who do not receive wages. They are called 'employment-inclusion contracts' and are no less than a new form of slave labour. The Ombudsman has already said that there will be at least 60 000 people working in this situation in the State and the situation is so serious that the Labour Conditions Authority, which we should use to monitor this situation, also workers in illegal situations, abuse, forced labour, slave labour, which are employment-inclusion contracts. There is a second way in Portugal to force people to work without wages, which are the stages. The government, which says that the State cannot create jobs, is currently spending millions to pay businesses so that companies do not create jobs. The State pays wages for a person to be working in a private company without being entitled to a contract of employment, to a salary; it has an internship scholarship and over nine months goes away. The Prime Minister here said that 70% of the people were in the company. Liar! The Banco de Portugal says that one in three jobs is internships and seven in 10 trainees go to the street and in the end they do not even have access to unemployment benefit. There is no lie that hides the government's deceit. The Block opposes these measures here, in Parliament, and in the authorities. We do not accept blackmail that if we do not use employment-inclusion contracts, the school is closed. We cannot accept that our State can only function through slave labor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u94	It's not acceptable! Let's not let it happen! Work must be worthy, the policies which the government calls 'job creation' or 'employment stimulus' or 'employment active policies' are no more than a huge waste to mask unemployment numbers and, much worse than that, to break the most basic contract of society, that of work corresponds to a wage. What we are proposing today is the following: let's clear these numbers, let's get to know reality, let's do an audit. This must be known, this is one of the greatest attacks on democracy and the rule of law in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u95	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying to the House that the Socialist Party is in favour of active employment measures. It is in favour of professional internships, it is in favour of employment-insertion contracts. But it is in favour of these active employment measures within the principles and rules of a decent society, within the principles and rules of what decent work should be. This is the situation which we are concerned about right now. We are concerned about the situation of employment and integration contracts in the Portuguese Public Administration, because there are reasonable doubts as to whether these principles are being met. I am going to give a very specific example: the Social Security Institute — which Mr Minister, who is also responsible for the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, which has the responsibility of employment-inclusion contracts — is not only using people who, under the employment-inclusion contracts, are employed by workers who are currently being fired but also using job-in-service profiles to record their work and if there is a problem, it is the worker who is called to responsibility, because the computer profile is yours. Well, this is not acceptable! Another concrete example is the Social Security Institute: the workers working at the call center of the social security of Castelo Branco was disabled and some were recruited by the Institute of Social Security of Castelo Branco to do the work they did in that call center. Well, this is not acceptable! And other examples I could give here. This is our concern. We have already made a number of requests to members of the Government, in particular to the Minister for Social Security and to the Secretary of State of the Public Administration, in order to provide clarification to their committees on this matter, and these requirements are systematically plunged by the PSD and the CDS. And here, in this plenary, we have already questioned the Minister and the Secretary of State on this matter and we have never received an answer. at this moment, we have this concern that is legitimate and therefore we present the draft resolution, which also meets the recommendations of the Ombudsman. Our draft resolution aims at an exhaustive survey of public administration bodies to know exactly who has employment-inclusion contracts, what are they doing, objectively, in these public administration bodies. We think the draft resolution of the Left Block is positive, but we have to go further. An audit by the Court of Auditors will, in our opinion, make a survey and discuss the procedures, but we want more. We want to know who's there concretely and doing what. For this reason, we present this recommendation. The Socialist Party argues that in a decent society, under no circumstances can situations be accepted which indicate exploitation. We do not accept and we want an answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, let's move on to the next point... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up in time. It is because the Bureau has difficulty in managing the work and, without registration, it must move to the next item on the agenda. Still on the discussion of draft resolutions 1154 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 1207 / XII ( 4. ( a) you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: IECs and IECs +— and here this has not been explained or clarified—are active employment measures which aim at the realization of socially necessary social and collective needs by under-employed persons or beneficiaries of the ISCs (social income for inclusion). [[BE's protests.]] ...and they aim to promote their reintegration into the labour market and improve their skills. [[It is! It is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u99	It has not been said that in these active employment measures the disabled, the long-term unemployed or over 45 years old, the victims of domestic violence and the former prisoners are given priority. This is to sit down and rock the discussion and know what we're talking about. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u100	Now, let's look historical. Employment-insertion contracts and employment-insertion + contracts were created by the Government of the Socialist Party in 2009 and regulated by the portal signed by, at the date, Secretary of State, current Vice-President of the Lisbon Chamber, Dr. Fernando Medina. I would like to point out—and now I am going to respond to what has been said here— by making a small history of what the CIS and the CIS + were doing on that date, in 2009 the central state employed more 4000 people in CIS and CIS+ modes than at present. I am curious that the Socialist Party is now so uncomfortable to want to do this union and in the time when it was government never worried,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u101	... even though the Socialist Government has had more people, thousands, with employment-inclusion contract than this government has!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u103	But I would say that at present there is more or less a similar number of people who existed in 2009 in this modality, this if we complete what is central administration with the authorities. That is, the number of persons covered by the CIS and the CIS + contracted by the authorities actually rose from 2009 to this date, 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u104	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u105	I'll explain why. It is, in fact, a beautiful question. Look, Member : of the five chambers in the country that employ more people in this IEC and IEC + mode, four are from the Socialist Party ; of the 10 chambers that employ more people with IEC and IEC + contracts, eight are from the Socialist Party ; of the 15 chambers that employ more people with IEC and IEC + contracts, 10 are from the Socialist Party. But the Communist Party, in this ranking of the 15 best, completes the rally! So, ladies and gentlemen, seriously, we can say the following: active employment measures are necessary, are important; active employment measures—and the Government and this majority feel so—are good measures that allow the return to the labour market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u106	But what return? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u107	... the reintegration and professional valorisation of people who have been unemployed for a long time, who are over 45 years old or who have special situations of « desprivilege », as is the case for people subject to domestic violence. [[BE's protests.]] We understand that and that is where we have maintained these measures, although they come from the Government of the Socialist Party. However, if those who have created these measures, as is the case with the Socialist Party, think they are not good,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u108	But who told you they weren't good? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u109	... I wonder why earlier, in the time when they were government, they were created and why here, as a party, they never demanded the union of a government that had much more people with measures than this government. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u110	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, and in view of the earlier figures, I would like the Socialist Party to inform you here how many questions you have asked your 12 most CIS employers in the country. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Catarina Martins, who spoke about the stages, which were not called here, the following: welcome to the professional stages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u112	Mr President, you have long exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u113	of young people who are covered by vocational training programmes, 70 % are finally included in the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u114	Try it! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u115	Otherwise, they would be excluded. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u116	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Employment and integration contracts, the former POC(occupational programmes), in addition to being a way of distorting unemployment statistics, are a forced form of work, which literally means slave work in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u118	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u119	PSD and CDS-PP, after facilitating and making layoffs cheaper, after increasing precariousness, after attacking workers' rights and wages, after attacking collective employment contracts, which are not satisfied, promote employment-inclusion contracts in the public and private sectors. Employment-inclusion contracts are, for the most part, unemployed workers who are forced to work without wages, without rights, no holiday or Christmas allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u122	Workers with employment-inclusion contracts receive their own allowance, for which they themselves discounted during a working life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u124	The use of employment-inclusion contracts in the Public Administration reaches this point: the PSD/CDS-PP government fires workers at the same time to put thousands of workers working for free for the State. There is not a single school in our country that does not have an employment-insertion contract to ensure its operation. The Act (Working Conditions Authority) has employment-inclusion contracts, which is a scandal, a shame! Even social security itself has dozens of employment-inclusion contracts and at the same time Minister Mota Soares of the CDS-PP fires 700 social security workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u125	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u127	PSD and CDS-PP say, in fact, the CDS has already said it and the PSD will say it, that it is insertion measures, but they themselves know that employment-insertion contracts do not include anyone at all. Workers work for free for one year, spend their unemployment allowance to work and then return to the unemployment situation, without any kind of insertion, without any change in their actual situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u128	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u129	Therefore, PSD and CDS-PP know very well that these employment-inclusion contracts do not include anyone at all, they are a forced form of work. So let us go to the solutions that are proposed here in these draft resolutions by the Socialist Party and the Left Block, since the PSD and the CDS-PP live well with this national shame of having people working for free for the state. They should be ashamed — any decent government would be ashamed of having free and forced work in the State —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u130	They've lost their shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u131	...but PSD and CDS-PP have absolutely no shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u132	Tell that to the President of the City Hall of Loures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u133	Let's go to the solutions the PCP has found. The PS and BE projects propose, one, a survey and the other, an audit. All right! The solution proposed by the CFP goes through, that is, we agree with a survey or an audit, but that is not enough, we need to go much further, in particular, after lifting the number of employment-inclusion contracts, we need to promote the conversion of employment-inclusion contracts that concern the performance of permanent tasks. The CFP proposes that, in the authorities which are unable to hire workers, the conversion of employment-inclusion contracts should be promoted into final contracts. Who prevents this reality? The PSD and CDS-PP prevent this conversion of contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u135	But we want to leave here a note: the PCP, on March 2, 2011, presented a bill that determined the conversion of false green receipts as well as employment-inclusion contracts into effective work; after the lifting of employment-inclusion contracts, those workers who performed permanent tasks should see their contract converted into effective, with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u137	How did the PSD vote? He voted against! Is that a CDS? He voted against! The PS, although we are before a Government of the Socialist Party, also voted against! In the State budget for 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u138	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u139	I conclude, Mr President, with exactly the same tolerance as the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u140	You are, Mr, but there are no precedents in this matter. We all have to make an effort. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u141	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say the following: in the 2015 State budget, we presented the same proposal, i.e. the conversion of contracts of workers performing permanent tasks. How was this proposal voted on by the CDS? Against conversion, against guarantee of rights! The PSD also voted against and the Socialist Party voted against the conversion of contracts and lifting of employment-inclusion contract situations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I want to say that, indeed, the lifting is not enough, it is necessary to end this national shame and to convert a permanent job, concluding an effective and legitimate contract of work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u142	I'm asking all of you. Members to make an effort to fulfill the times, or we too much prolong the session. For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2014, like 2013, recorded a consecutive drop in the unemployment rate according to INE data. This should be a cause for satisfaction on the part of all parties, but the opposition—you know why—it seems to be uncomfortable with this consecutive decline in the unemployment rate... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u144	... and thus intends to bring to this House, with the projects under consideration, the apparent need for clarifications or even checks on the implementation of programmes created by previous PS governments. It should be remembered that the CIS programmes — Employment-Inclusion contract — and CEI + are a creation of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u146	... when, in 1996, created the occupational programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u148	The managing entity continues to be the IEFP, such as the target promotional entities and the role of the CIS and CEI+ is not the execution of productive market tasks, they are, yes, included in projects organized for the benefit of the community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u149	After all, what changed? In 2009, when the PS said that economic recovery was happening, the total number covered by these occupational programmes was similar to that of current levels. There is also a sharp decrease in the use of these programmes to the IECs at the level of central administration in about 4000 workers compared to 2009, and this effort refers to the Ministry of Education. But the PS has already forgotten that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u151	It is also worth noting that it was with this government that all beneficiaries of social income for inclusion and candidates for the CIS+ programmes had to register in employment centres, thus contributing to the increase in the rate of unemployment recorded. [[Ah! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u152	The following should also be clarified: those covered by employment-inclusion contracts benefit from an increase in the benefit they received if they were at home,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u153	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u154	... a transport allowance and a food allowance and four days a month are provided for the search for employment. But most importantly, at the end of these programmes, employability levels also exist and are around 30 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u155	Where are they? Oh, my God! How many are there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u156	Finally, it should be noted that there is an evaluation of employment policies and that this study reports that more than 80 % of participants positively value participation in the programme, in particular in strengthening their competences and interpersonal relationships.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u157	And if they could, they'd even stay there! They need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u158	I leave here a question which I consider relevant to the opposition: if, indeed, these programmes are harmful to their beneficiaries, have they already questioned, for example, the local authorities where your parties are in power? Oh, my God! I mean, as an example, Sintra, Lisboa, Vila Nova de Gaia, Loures, Benavente. What is the reason why these authorities, like many others in the opposition, are among the main promoters of the implementation of these programmes — about 80 %? Oh, my God! What inconsistency and demagogy on your part! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u159	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : It should be stressed that active employment policies, which currently cover more than 150 000 people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u160	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u161	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, it should be stressed that active employment policies, which currently cover more than 150 000 people, require strict implementation criteria, with the obligation to verify certain requirements, in the analysis and implementation of the programmes, from the regularized contribution situation to social security and finance, the absence of late wages or job creation, under the penalty of returning the funds, if the requirements are not met. I will finish, then, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u162	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u163	in this sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot support the draft resolutions under consideration because it must be recognized that unemployment, according to INE data, has actually been decreasing. The PSD Parliamentary Group accompanies the Government by proclaiming the importance of our businesses and the entrepreneurial role of our entrepreneurs who have managed to put our economy in the path of growth, with the creation of more employment, with the accession and benefit of existing active employment policies. It is this role of companies and active employment policies that all opposition has difficulty in recognising. This is so sorry! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u164	For a second intervention, which has a very short period of time, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u165	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Mrs. Members of the majority, what are you afraid of? Oh, my God! [[Hey!]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u166	We say: "We are against employment-insertion contracts and we will know how many they are." You say: "We are in favour of employment-insertion contracts and we do not want any audits". What are you afraid of? Oh, my God! Our proposal is known: we oppose the Government of the Socialist Party as we now oppose these policies that put people to work without wages. Today, we come here with the proposal for an audit to know what is going on. We have already dropped our proposals to end these types of contracts, which are abuse, are slave labor, are forced labour, but today what is under discussion is the audit, it is to know what the reality is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u167	They're gonna talk to people! Why aren't you going to talk to people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u168	If you say this is good, why don't you want the audit? Oh, my God! What are you afraid of? Oh, my God! What you know is that what you say about insertion contracts, what you say about internships, what you say about active government employment policies is not true. The answer that you do not have is why, if a school needs a worker, that worker does not have a contract of employment and is obliged to work without wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u169	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u170	The answer that you do not have is why, if an authority needs an architect, it does not hire that architect instead of forcing an unemployed person to be there without wages. The answer that you do not want to give is why if a shop store wants to hire a worker, it does not hire a worker and instead puts a trainee, paid by the IEFP, to leave there for nine months without right, even the unemployment allowance, always running, always running, with complete contempt for people. What you don't say is how we can have in the state and IPSS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u171	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u172	... so many people working, eight hours a day, 40 hours a week, no wages or less than the minimum wage, without any right. What you don't answer is how public distributions would be open in our country, how schools, health centers and hospitals could work, how IPSS would work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u173	Madam Member, please finish, because you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u174	... if these people were not subject to forced labor. Finally, Mr President: if the problem was a different ideological view of these policies, you accepted the audit proposed by the Left Block ; you do not accept the audit of the Left Block, because the problem is not that, the problem is that abuse is there, it is blatant,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u175	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u176	...you know and want to fool the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u177	Again, I appeal to the honourable Members. Members to observe the time set by the Conference of Leaders. We will move on to point 4 of our agenda, which concerns the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1191 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By complying with the legislation establishing medical and free follow-up to former workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( The Greens ), 1168 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — For compliance with the right to free medical follow-up to workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ), including the exemption from moderate rates ( BE ), 1201 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By complying with Law No 10 / 2010 of 14 June, which establishes the duty of the State to ensure the obligation of periodic and free medical follow-up to the workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( PCP ) and 1203 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By ensuring through the National Health Service to the former workers of the UNE ( National Uranio Company ) and their families of periodic and free medical follow-up ( PS ). To present the Greens draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In presenting the legislative initiative that The Greens have scheduled for today, we want to record two previous notes, in a way of regret. The first concerns the absence of the Government in this debate, in view of the responsibilities it has in this process. It was our understanding that the government should be present. The second note is the fact that this House of the Republic feels the need to recommend that the Government comply with the law. It is that we are not demanding that the Government fulfill its promises and not even that it fulfils its commitments. What The Greens want, with this initiative, is just so that the government complies with the law, and in this case comply with the law as regards the free medical follow-up to the former workers of the National Uranio Company and its relatives. As we all know and that, moreover, it is legally recognised, the workers who have served in the service of the UN are in a particularly sensitive situation. It was also the finding of this fact that in 2005 the Government then adopted "exceptional" legislative measures in order to equate the workers of the UNES to workers in the interior or underground mining for the purposes of access to the disability and old age pension. Later, Law No. 10 / 2010 established the obligation of medical follow-up to these workers. In other words, from this point on, the State has become legally obliged to guarantee medical and periodic free follow-up to UNNU workers, as well as to its relatives, spouses, people living with them in de facto union and direct descendants. It happens that despite this decision of the Assembly of the Republic and the respect that the Government must have before the decisions of this House, the Government continues to listen to market and to completely ignore the law. The Government is not complying with the law, at least as regards the exemption from the payment of moderate fees and medical examinations carried out under the health intervention programme, as, moreover, it has been denounced by the Association of the Former Uranium Mine Workers — which, in fact, I take advantage of, on behalf of the Greens, to welcome those who, in particular, are here with us today to accompany the work. However, the government's failure to comply with the law has been calling into question the health monitoring of former UNNU workers and their family members, who inherited a very heavy environmental and public health liability, as a result of their exposure to radioactivity. But in addition, the State, being a good person, should allow the exercise of rights to such persons, but what the Government is doing is not only inhibiting the exercise of rights on the part of these workers, citizens, but also giving the Government itself a very bad example in relation to non-compliance with the law. Moreover, these were the reasons why the Greens proposed that this House should recommend that the Government fully comply with the law, because the laws exist to be complied with and the laws must be complied with not only by the citizens but also, above all, by the Government. In conclusion, I would like only to remind the PSD and the CDS that this legislative initiative that The Greens, today, present here, is intended only for the government to comply with the law and it is this House that is responsible for monitoring the action of the Government. The Greens therefore hope that the parties of the majority will not resign from this supervisory function, which is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic, and the only way to do so is to vote in favour of our initiative. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u179	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words can only be addressed to former UNSCR workers who have, over the years, developed a struggle for the consecration of their rights. And today, once again, they are only demanding what is right and that the law of 2010 also consecrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u182	The truth is that Article 3. the Law No 10 / 2010 is quite clear. It says that the State guarantees medical follow-up and that this medical follow-up aims to identify the health consequences of these workers and their families. The observance of this Law is of the most fundamental justice! These workers have already paid, with their lives, the effort to make this country richer. They had a huge job in that area, contributed to the development not only of the area but also of the country. You deserve it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, respect for this Parliament, respect for the country. For this reason, what we propose here is very simple: the 2010 law is met. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u183	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was the struggle of the workers and the former workers of the UNES that succeeded in ensuring, in the law, each of the rights that are enshrined to them today — rights that have been won with a persistent struggle, of resistance, which we welcome from here, even because over the years it has been an example even for workers from other parts of the country. over the years, the Socialist Party, with an absolute majority, blocked the conquest of these rights. [[PS protests.]] With the origin of the loss of its absolute majority, fortunately, it was possible—at the time, through a bill presented by the Ecological Party « The Greens » and followed by other parliamentary groups – to establish, in Law No. 10 / 2010, the free access of former NU workers and their families to the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u185	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u186	...and a medical follow-up that would guarantee them, in some way, protection by the State. This, in view of the conditions they have been subject to, to work in a public enterprise for years of their lives and which have caused them health problems that still cause them to fall, unfortunately, months after month, other former workers of the UNNU, because of the diseases and health problems they have inherited from the functions they have performed in a public enterprise because of a State which has not been able to assign or respect these rights and which has returned their backs for many years, because of the imposition of several governments. It is regrettable that the Assembly of the Republic has so many times to discuss the rights of former UNSCR workers. It is regrettable that this House has taken so long to recognize them. It is regrettable that the Government of the Socialist Party at that time has blocked its recognition. [[Protests from PS Acácio Pinto.]] It is even more regrettable that the Assembly of the Republic has to take a decision on compliance with the law, which has already been the law of the Republic since 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u188	It is regrettable that, for the large economic groups, the government, if necessary, invents laws that do not exist or mechanisms that are not even in the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u190	... guaranteeing them tax benefits, outside the law, but for workers and the rights enshrined in the law, the government is available to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u192	The communiqué which has now been issued for the enforcement of this law is even less than what is necessary. First, it was issued only because this House decided to schedule these diplomas on a proposal from the Greens Ecological Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u194	...and because the workers fought for this communiqué to be issued.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u195	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u196	But even the communiqué that has been issued falls short of what is necessary and does not respond to what the law provides, which is the free follow-up of former UNNU workers and their family members, regardless of the reason for their follow-up, and even because it is practically impossible to detect, before medical follow-up, whether or not the problem is due to the work in the mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u198	Mrs. Members, the CFP therefore proposes that the law be complied with, which is in itself something with which this House should never be confronted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u199	This is weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u200	This House approves the laws and the laws are to be fulfilled...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u201	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u202	...and this government should not cause breaches that this House is forced to say that the government has to comply with a law. But more than that, it is important, now, to make up for all those who have been harmed by the breach of the law. Those NEP workers and their family members who, by going to a health centre or to a hospital, have ever been confronted with the payment of a moderate fee or an examination have to be compensated for this payment that was requested from them, because it is impossible to compensate already those who have been denied such care for economic incapacity. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u203	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Acácio Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a greeting from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the former workers of the National Uranio Company, present here and who, over time, have been defending their rights to health. In fact, this Parliament, more often than desirable, has been a discussion stage of matters related to the former workers of the National Uran Company. The Socialist Party has always been in the first line of defense of workers' health and only one oblivion of Mr Miguel Tiago is that he cannot see this presence of PS in the defense of former workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u205	And neither do the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was recently published a book by Carlos Mota Veiga — The life of uranium workers — that I bring here today the debate, because it contains a matter very relevant to the history of uranium and the former workers, but above all it has a subtitle — Bad work — in which we should take the utmost attention. It is because bad work is indeed what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u207	You should have read that in 2007!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u208	I bring here this book to understand, in a clear way, what it is about is that, with this bad work, there were many workers who were affected and who have problems. That is why the Socialist Party has already placed these workers with the national health system in 2007 to obtain their exams both in health centers and in hospitals, specifically in Viseu hospital. I therefore want to tell you here that the Socialist Party, by presenting today a draft resolution, is obviously regretting the fact that the Government has failed to comply with the 2010 law, but also demanding that the minimum that the Government and the majority can and must do is only one thing: voting in favour of the draft resolutions that are under discussion, specifically the draft resolution of the Socialist Party. This is the minimum that is required, because what the majority and the government really have to do is to eradicate political debate this issue of combating health problems for former workers of the National Uranio Company. I would also like to tell you that the law of 2010 says in particular: « The State guarantees periodic and free medical follow-up». Now, you guarantee who? It is not the other workers, it is the workers here, it is the former workers of uranium mines in Portugal, which are basically the districts of Viseu and the Guarda, essentially the municipalities of them and Mangualde, but also the Sabugal. What is at stake here is this and therefore we also welcome the parliamentary groups that have presented the draft resolutions that are under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to tell you that today, most of us will, of course, say here in an unequivocal way, that the health administration is wrong and that we will vote in favour of the draft resolutions, in order to solve, once and for all, this problem that affects the health of workers and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u209	That's how we wait!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u210	For an intervention, Mr. João Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech this year, I would like to congratulate all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, wish them a good year, as well as the former mine workers of the Urgeirice, and say that our greeting is accompanied by appreciation and respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u213	Our words are not circumstantial, they are supported in a coherent course that the PSD Parliamentary Group has always had over the years. But before I refer in particular to the four draft resolutions, let me, Mr President, make a brief historical review here. In 2005, in the PSD Government / CDS-PP, Decree-Law No. 28 / 2005 was published, which regulated the application of the legislation defining the special regime for access to disability and old age pensions. It was undoubtedly an important step, but obviously there was a lack of follow-up and medical treatment both for the workers covered by the above-mentioned Decree-Law, as well as for their relatives and spouses. Well, the beers who are in the galleries, former UNNU workers, have no doubt about who has accompanied them in this process. But perhaps some of the Members. Members have forgotten or do not know, taking advantage of their memory: from 2005 to 2009 the Socialist Party, from the top of its absolute majority, have systematically dropped the initiatives presented by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u214	You need to have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u215	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PS protests.]] Mr Acácio Pinto, I know that you were not a Member in that period, but you cannot say that the PS has always been on the front line. You should have read the Diary of the Assembly of the Republic of 19 March 2010 in which a Member of the Socialist Party says the following: « These proposals of the parties mentioned may not have our reception, because they are unfair(...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u216	And they led them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u217	And he continues: "At the moment we are asking for efforts to all Portuguese, with also reflection on the access and calculation of their old-age pensions,..."......
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u218	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u219	... «... does not appear fair... »... [[I'd say!?...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u220	...... be required to finance exceptional schemes without any reasonableness(...). We shall therefore vote against these three bills. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, this is the consistency of the Socialist Party. You know, the exercise of political activity is a noble art, but lack of coherence is that cannot exist! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u221	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - let me begin by congratulating the representative of the workers of the National Uranio Company and, with one regret, I want to agree with all the benches that have said that, sometimes too, the affairs of the former workers of the National Uranio Company are discussed in this House. If there were any doubts, it was enough to hear this debate. There's a championship of those who defend the workers more. There are even those who, for lack of coherence and shame in their face, allow me to say it — participate in discussions of workers or workers' organisations to say something when they are in government and to say something else when they are in opposition. The workers know—because the CDS-PP has already said it here, just see what I have said about it—that the CDS-PP does not campaign, or electoral promises, or any other order, with respect to the suffering of workers in uranium mines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u223	They know. That is why the CDS-PP accompanies all initiatives that are fair - and has - over time done so - and votes against all those who consider them to be demagogic and unjust. Today, we will have no different position. I am surprised that, rather than the clear and simple consensus that should exist, given the financial conditions of the State, given the justice and suffering of these workers who are unique and divergent, we cannot all converge to solve the problem. That was our position in 2005, that was our position in 2010, guaranteeing the workers (not only those working in the mine, but also those working in the annexes) the same treatment, that was our position, ensuring that the workers were linked to the company—there was a difference between four and five years in our proposals but that we have just accepted—and that is our position today. I'm not even going to make comments. It doesn't go through my head that doesn't meet the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u224	But the law is not being fulfilled!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u225	The law is to comply and it is to comply as soon as possible and, therefore, the CDS-PP will vote favourably for all initiatives that say exactly that. Why? Because it's fair, because it's reasonable and because that's how it has to be. Mr. Acácio Pinto, because I don't want to waste much more time, I was listening to my colleague and friend of the Social Democratic Party and suddenly there was a news saying: former UNNU workers say that PS voted against workers and threatened with mega-manifestation. I don't think there's any reason for the workers to be against the Socialist Party, according to your intervention! I went to confirm the news and verified that it is March 7, 2008. Can you explain why the workers were angry with the Socialist Party? Is there any reason for that? The Socialist Party has always been consistent, makes interventions and presentations of books criticizing all parties and, suddenly, workers do not understand the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! Do they not understand the Socialist Party and want to protest against it? Oh, my God! Why would it be, sir? Oh, my God! I leave this question to you to make it clear who has always been on the right side and who is who, from time to time, walks in zigzags. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u226	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, after the intervention of the majority, it is clear that everyone will vote in favour of these draft resolutions. Mr. Hélder Amaral says he doesn't even think that the law is not met. Look, it's life! It is because the law is not actually being met and the truth is that former workers and their family members have paid moderate fees. Mr Deputy, the health services themselves, in a statement of 19 December, addressed to the President of the Regional Health Administration Board of the Centre, make an interpretation of the application of Law No 10 / 2010 which does not go through a great deal. I have here the communiqué and repair the incompetence: it speaks in Law No. 10 / 2010 of 4 January, in the first paragraph, forward speaks in Law No. 10 / 2010 of 14 January, and then says that they are exempt from moderate fees, when the health consequences of these workers are involved, resulting from their activity. Now, first of all, they speak of a law that so little identifies it as it should be, because, as you well know, Law No. 10 / 2010 is June 14th. But, passing over, its interpretation is abusive, because Law No. 10 / 2010 clearly states in its Article 3. the, is that the planned medical follow-up—and it is a free medical follow-up— aims to identify the health consequences of these workers and, therefore, is to make strict, periodic, free follow-up to all workers and family members. That's what this is about. It does not have the interpretation that health services come to determine.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u228	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. It is indeed regrettable that we have so many times to discuss this matter. But today, I think that we should once and for all end this situation and clearly tell the health services that these workers are entitled to free monitoring and, contrary to what has been done so far, they must be compensated for the money they have already paid at moderate rates and in treatment. That is our position, and that is what we have to resolve today, because these workers have the right to have the utmost respect on the part of this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u230	By not registering the table more entries on this point... [[Pause.]] Mr Acácio Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u231	Mr. President, I want to tell you very much. Members of the majority who even seem to be not this majority who supports the government we currently have in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u232	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u233	Looks like it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u234	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u235	Because those who are not complying with the law are the services of the Ministry of Health, they are the services protected by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u236	Mr President ( Guilherme Silva): — Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u237	Mr. President, I'm done. By the way, I also want to tell the gentlemen. Members of the majority who led draft resolution No 770 / XII ( 2. a ), in July 2013, it was not the Socialist Party, it was VV. Ex. those who plunged the PS draft resolution that aimed to solve this problem. Therefore, the Socialist Party accepts neither CDS-PP nor PSD on this subject,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u238	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u239	... even because, I mean, the health of a population is too important to be grossly neglected, as you have seen in this case and as you have unfortunately seen in recent days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u240	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u241	Mr. President, I would like to make a brief clarification. I said I wasn't going through my head that didn't meet the law, and it didn't happen. But I accept as good that there are doubts in the interpretation of the law or in the application of it. That is why the CDS-PP bench will vote in favour of what the draft resolutions say and I will not even need to read them. That is how we will vote, because if there are any doubts, that is why we are here: to clarify, to correct and to force the law to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u242	For an intervention, Mr. João Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u243	Mr President, allow me to speak directly to the representatives of the miners present here to tell them that our appreciation for these men and women does not run out of legislative initiatives. I myself have moved with them to the Center ARS for, of course, understanding the existing constraints and our concern and our follow-up have led to these constraints being resolved at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u244	Listen: "resolved"!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u245	The members of the Association shall state in their statement the following in respect of the exemption from the fees for ex-mineers of the National Uranio Company...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u246	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u247	Mr. President, I would only ask you to read: « With regard to the exemption from moderate rates for ex-mineers of the National Uranio Company, you are informed that for information now provided by ACCS, after nine requests for clarification by the Center ARS, these are those users, as well as their relatives, spouses and children, exempt from the payment of moderate rates under Law No 10 / 2010 of 14 June, which came to add Article 3 of Decree-Law No 28 / 2005. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u248	Some talk, we do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u249	We do, we worry...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u250	Sir, you've read. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u251	Mr Acácio Pinto, the exercise of political activity is noble only if it is done in truth, in consistency and, in this matter, he has contributed nothing to the nobleness of politics. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u252	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, with regard to the rights of workers and former UNES workers, what happens is that the PS, PSD and CDS some lead and others fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u254	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u255	The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only after this debate that the law is in fact complied with that the rights of workers are fulfilled and that compensation for the moderate rates that they have been charging without power is ensured. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u256	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u257	Mr President, PSD Member, is not resolved at all. This office, as has already been said, imposes a condition which the law does not provide. It imposes a « when», when the law does not provide for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u258	Listen! Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u259	Furthermore, Mr President, there is a lack of responsibilities, lack of knowledge why the law was not met for a year and a half, lack of knowledge why people paid unduly the moderate fees and medical examinations and lack of responsibilities because there were people who stopped taking tests because they had to pay them and had no money to bear them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u261	Therefore, it is still necessary to return the values that were unduly paid, both at moderate rates and in exams. If the government even wants to redeem itself from this entire process, it only has to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u262	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u263	I will finish, Mr. President. I also take this opportunity to say: it would be good for the Government to consider, as soon as possible, the possibility of establishing and paying compensation to UNES workers in the event of occupational diseases. Thus, the government would be redeeming itself. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u264	Mrs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we shall move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the consideration of motion for a resolution No 94 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 189 on decent work for domestic workers adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 100th meeting. the session, held in Geneva on 16 June 2011, together with draft resolutions 634 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify Convention No 189 of the International Labour Organisation on domestic labour ( BE) and 1048 / XII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Convention on Dignified Work for Domestic Workers and take appropriate measures to implement it ( CFP ). To present the motion for a resolution, I call on the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u265	Mr President, I would like to take this first intervention in this year's plenary to wish Mr President and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, a good year. The Government shall submit to Parliament resolution No 94 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) approving the Convention on decent work for workers and domestic workers adopted, as already said, by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization, in its 100th meeting. the session, held in Geneva in June 2011. The Convention entered into force on 5 September 2013 and was ratified by 14 States. This is an instrument that aims to protect and improve the living and working conditions of workers and domestic workers worldwide, guaranteeing them minimum protection equivalent to that of the other categories of workers, both in the field of fundamental rights at work, either in the field of protection against fraudulent practices, against abusive practices or, moreover, in respect for private life, in the case of workers and workers staying in the family. As we know, the principles set out in this Convention are, essentially, translated into the Portuguese legal order, but of course, the legislative amendments which are considered necessary to ensure full compliance with the obligations arising from the ratification of this Convention within the time limit which it itself foresees will be made. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u266	Mrs. Members, to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, have the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u267	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: To adopt Convention No 189 on decent work for workers and domestic workers is an emergency. I told the Secretary of State that some rules are already part of our legal-laboratory order. But it is necessary to make adjustments and go further, Madam Secretary of State, because reality has changed. In March 2013 the Left Block delivered a draft resolution, which, curiously, is not part of the opinion drawn up by Mrs.Angela Guerra. In her opinion on this initiative, she said that she had entered a petition before, but did not mention, for example, that she had introduced a draft resolution of the Left Block in March 2013 recommending this ratification to the Government. Domestic work, as we all know, is mainly done by women and even girls, often immigrants or disadvantaged communities, who are, as we also know, particularly vulnerable to discrimination in relation to employment and work conditions. We know that this work is not exercised by the general format, in large companies, but in situations far more difficult to measure their conditions. It is precisely for this reason that there has to be a specific adequacy of our legislation to avoid abuse, since this work is often done between four walls in private homes, so even if this adaptation is necessary. So be it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. We understand that the same, because of its importance, deserved some emphasis, and that is why we agreed that there was time for debate in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u268	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: International Labour Organization Convention No 189 on decent work for domestic workers urges States to take measures to ensure decent working conditions and with social rights, preventing abuse, violence and child labour at home. Eurostat data estimates that there are 2, 6 million domestic workers in the European Union, of which 89 % are women and half are migrants. At world level, more than 80 % of domestic work is done by women and is one of the most unprotected, devalued and invisible jobs, taking into account their isolated, insecure and individual nature. Domestic work is characterized by the precariousness, the absence of the contract of employment, the delay in payment of wages, the requirement to perform extraordinary hours without due remuneration, the failure to respect the right to strike and rest, the failure to pay holidays and holidays, the absence of payments to social security, among others. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the CFP approves and accompanies the Government in the need for ratification of this Convention, but believes that further action is needed. And if it is true that our law already provides for a set of matters which are covered by this Convention, others need to be assured and it is important to assume. Today, by voting on the draft resolution of the CFP, we will know whether the PSD, the CDS, and in particular the Socialist Party will follow us on these matters. We believe that, in addition to ratifying the Convention, the measures contained in Recommendation No 201 on this subject should also be adopted. We believe that it would be very important to define domestic and domestic labour within its own diplomas; to adopt measures to implement, respect and promote the rights to freedom of association, trade union freedom, collective bargaining and the elimination of all forms of forced labour; to ensure and study the application of the national minimum wage to these workers; and to ensure rules that, in the case of the worker living in the home where he works, conditions of privacy are guaranteed. We also understand, and this is an aspect which is not enshrined in our law — in fact, the last amendment that the Government made with regard to the provision of work left this possibility much more fragile — that in the event that domestic workers reside outside the national territory should be able to receive a proposal for employment or the written contract which are valid in Portugal before entering the country. The CFP also proposes that social protection be ensured in the context of disease, old age, maternity and paternity. We shall see, in the vote, the real impact of the Government on the ratification of this Convention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u270	Mr Artur Rêgo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u271	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS also welcomes the motion for a resolution submitted by the Government, as it recognises the extreme importance of the Convention No 189 and recognizes that domestic workers have been almost, until a few years ago, children of a minor God in the labour landscape in Portugal. A few years ago, the Portuguese legal system and the legislator recognized the importance of the domestic service worker, the importance and specificity of this service, beginning an empowerment within labour law and creating specific standards for these workers. from that point on, we can say that much of the content of Convention No 189 has already been welcomed in Portuguese domestic law, which does not imply that the task of ratifying this Convention does not mean by the Portuguese State the international recognition of the importance of this matter and the need for the regulation of its various aspects. Domestic workers, mostly workers, as has already been said, are essential and are a backbone for many Portuguese families, even in many cases by integration, almost nuclear elements of these families. Therefore, we should be fully respected for what their duties represent, both from a labour point of view and from a social and emotional point of view, for the Portuguese family. We recognize that, as the Secretary of State has said, there are situations of fraud in the domestic service and there are situations of abuse, not only in terms of work, but also in the personal aspect of many domestic workers, to which it is urgent to pay off. With the legislation that we have already in force and now with the ratification and adaptation of the rules of this Convention, which will be introduced into our internal order, we hope to be able to overcome these situations. I conclude by saying that the commitment that was made in hearing with the representatives of the association of domestic workers is being fulfilled by us, CDS, PSD, our partner of coalition, and the government. The ratification following this motion for a resolution will follow its normal course and we hope that it will soon become a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u272	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u273	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Portugal honours its tradition of dignity and valorization of work, from as a founding member of the ILO in 1919. The draft resolutions under discussion today are understood by us in the light of the agenda for decent work, for work with rights, with fair remuneration, with social protection, with appreciation and vocational training. Of course, this agenda for decent work requires even more attention in relation to the most vulnerable and most unprotected sectors, as is the case with domestic work. The Socialist Party, as always, is, and will be, in line with the consecration and evolution of workers' rights and assumes the commitment of the agenda for decent work. Mr Secretary of State, the Government should take this opportunity to reflect on the transposition of this directive and the recommendations of the ILO. If, on the one hand, the Government is making good progress in the transposition of the directive, on the other hand, it must think of something which is currently in the ILO and which we have already discussed at another point in our agenda. I am referring to a complaint of forced labour submitted by workers who work for the Portuguese State itself. This should be a cause for shame and concern for the Portuguese State and, in this case, for the Government, which has moved wildly with the implementation of employment-inclusion contracts, as well as the deregulation and loss of the rights of workers who have happened in Portugal because of the responsibility of the Government. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, taking advantage of your presence here, I ask you to consider, to think well and to see all the cases that are in the ILO and the complaints that are being filed against the Portuguese State and that should be cause for concern and, in the view of the Socialist Party, of shame. I conclude by saying that there is a compromise on the agenda for decent work on the part of the Socialist Party. Therefore, and also responding to the CFP challenge, we will vote in favour of the transposition of the directive, but we also assume the commitment that the ILO recommendations for domestic work are the target of the relevant legislative initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u274	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In contemporary society, the work of providing care at home is essential for the out-of-home economy to work. In the last two decades, the direct consequence of the massive integration of women into the active population and the ageing of societies has been a widespread increase in demand for these services. The Government took the initiative to present in September 2014 the motion for a resolution that we are debating today. The aim of this International Convention is to ensure minimum protection for domestic workers equivalent to that of the other categories of workers. A set of provisions relating to living and working conditions, safety and health at work, minimum age, remuneration and social security, as well as effective access to conflict resolution mechanisms and courts, shall be enshrined. Or other so important and referring to the safeguarding of frequency in school, periods of rest, vacation, maternity, additional work, free accommodation outside the employer's home or the absolute right of these workers to retain identification documents in their possession. It will also be important to highlight three questions. First of all, and as has already been said, Portugal has already accepted in its legal system, essentially the principles enshrined in Convention No 189. Secondly, ratification of this Convention takes place only at this time when the Council of the European Union has to obtain prior authorisation, because it concerns the competence of the Union and its interests. Thirdly, this Convention ensures that nothing contained therein will affect any more favourable provisions applicable to these workers derived from domestic law, other international conventions and international law in force in that State itself. Thus, although this Convention does not fill any voids, it introduces an important matter of our legal order in terms of the specification of certain master traves. As we know, one thing is the existence of standards, another is their effective implementation and compliance; one is a Convention ratified by 10 States, another is a Convention ratified by 100 or more States. when the concepts are defined, a much more complete legal regime is enshrined. In this way, the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that this initiative is appropriate, since it is necessary to establish, strengthen and reaffirm certain basic labour rights of these workers, as well as some lack of effectiveness in existing standards. With regard to the two draft resolutions, the BE and the CFP, which are also being debated today as a result of their discussions on the very subject of the motion for a resolution, we believe that they are being undermined. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u276	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u277	Madam President, I would just like to thank you for the speeches made by the ladies and gentlemen. Members and to tell Mr Nuno Sá of the PS that, in fact, neither the deviation from the essentials that you have tried here has been sufficient to devalue the motion for a resolution that the Government submits, because its determination in ratifying the Convention is, of course, also the manifestation of its commitment to the creation of decent conditions in domestic work for women and men who do so. I would also like to say to Mrs Rita Rato and Mrs Mariana Aiveca that, having tabled draft resolutions on the recommendations they intended to make to the Government on the ratification of this Convention, today are certainly reasons for satisfaction. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u278	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is concluded. The following point, to which no time is allocated, has to do with motions for resolutions 96 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Sixth Additional Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, opened for signature in Strasbourg, on 5 March 1996 and 95 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Simplified Extradition Agreement between the Republic of Argentina, the Federal Republic of Brazil, the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic, signed in Santiago de Compostela on 3 November 2010. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are following the vote. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register, will have to signal their presence at the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 215 presences, to which 4 are added, making 219 Members, so we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, as you know, from the beginning of the vote script there are two votes of regret, which will be read and voted sequentially, after which we will keep a minute of silence. The first is vote No 241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of Juvenal Silva Peneda ( PSD and PS ). The Government, through the Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, reports that it is associated with this vote. To read the vote, I give the floor to Mrs Maria Paula Cardoso Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u279	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Juvenal Silva Peneda died last Tuesday, in Porto, victim of prolonged disease. Born 1954, Juvenal Silva Peneda was, until April 2013, Secretary of State of the Internal Administration. From 1992 to 1994 he was head of office of Luís Marques Mendes, then Deputy Minister of Prime Minister Cavaco Silva, and, between 2003 and 2006, chaired the Corporation for Collective Transport of Porto, SA, accumulating, between 2004 and 2008, with the functions of administrator of the Port Metro company. Senior technical officer of the North Regional Coordination and Development Commission, since 1977 he was head of the European Integration Division and Regional Planning and Development Director of the CCDR-N between 1984 and 1992 and head of the Interregional Cross-border Cooperation Office. He also served as chairman of the Unit for the Management of the Operational Programme of the High Mining — PROAM, between 1989 and 1994, as president of the Management of the Science and Technology Park of the Port, between 1994 and 1997, and as general coordinator of the Galician Labour Community, North Region, between 1994 and 2002, and of the Northern Labour Community of Portugal, Castile and León, between 1999 and 2002. From its creation to its position in the 19th Constitutional Government, he was executive secretary of the CIM — Intermunicipal Community of the High Mining. Graduated by the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto, he also devoted himself to teaching activity, having been a teacher in the postgraduate course in Economics and European Law of the Catholic University of Porto. at this moment, when the cycle of life leaves its inexorable mark, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret at the death of Mr. Eng.o Juvenal Silva Peneda, who so prematurely leaves our conviviality and curve before its humanist heritage of dedication to public service, of defense of the superior interests of the state, of the exercise of the values of citizenship, of democratic elevation, of exemplary professionalism, presenting to the grieving family feeling condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I note that the Bureau also joins this vote of regret, with a special hug to Dr. José Silva Peneda. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with vote No 242 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Condemning and regretting the attack in the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo ( President of RA, PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last Wednesday, the world witnessed, taken by chance, the invasion of the seat of the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo by a group of men with hidden faces who, at the time of the weekly editorial meeting, launched the most vile attack on life and freedom of the press. The attack, not claimed, caused twelve dead, including eight journalists and two police officers, and several injured, some in serious condition. Among the dead are the director of the publication, Stéphane Charbonnier (Carb cartoonist ) and also the cartoonists Cabu ( Jean Cabut ), Georges Wolinski and Bernard de Velhac ( Tignous ). Already in 2011 a bomb was placed in the same wording. Even so, the publication of the seminar was not suspended, continuing to be published at the Liberation: an obstinate defense of freedom of expression that increases publication, journalism and everyone in France, Europe and elsewhere in the world opposes freedom of terror. This was the most serious terrorist attack in France in the last 50 years. The cowardly and absurd terror against life and freedom of the press. The barbaric terror and no face. Against that group, against France, against all of us! Through the same revolt, a long wave of indignation between political leaders, our homes and our neighborhoods, and the media with their cartoonists, who also exercise freedom in art. In Paris, horror has been poured out on life — the greatest good — and on freedom of the press, this fundamental quality, in its dual dimension of exercise of the fundamental right of expression of thought and objective guarantee of the structures of democracy. Because freedom of the press is a condition for the freedom of everyone, for the public use of reason, for the freedom to be, to act, to be and to intervene in the world. In Paris, universal values were reached, but not won! There's no death for Reason. The Reason that is the matrix of these values, which gives equal dignity and rights and is common and transversal to all. And terror can never be perceived as belonging to ethnic or religious groups, cultural groups, nations or regions. Terror is the crime that we will never link the idea of a divided world or of the alleged existence of a conflict of cultures. Terror is how absurd it is that everyone touches us and we fight together. The violence of terrorism has this time invested in our newspapers, those places where freedom is exercised and democracy strikes. They are the synthesis of our free way of living and living. It is with our principles that we will defend ourselves. Not allowed. Without any temptation to amend, revoke, suspend in whole or in part. Horror will never bring us the vertigo of breaking our codes. It's with them that we fight. Paris is now the place we all live in. The place where a new impetus is generated, a impulse of will for a daily and self-sufficient struggle for dignity and rights, freedom and democracy. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its dismay and deep regret over the events of Paris and expresses its solidarity with the families of the victims, the workers of Charlie Hebdo and all journalists. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u282	Mrs. Members, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, the Government is also associated with this vote. We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I would also like to inform you that, due to a party meeting, the leaders of the PS Parliamentary Groups and the CDS-PP could not be present, having indicated to the Bureau that they also support this vote. So I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us proceed with the vote. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1210 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Maputo ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 936 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider the implementation of the variant on the 14th national road between the municipalities of Vila Nova de Famalíão, Trofa and Maia as a priority work, given its absolutely decisive character for the high industrial index located north of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and in the southern area of the Vale do Ave ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1193 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Priority to the construction of the variant at EN14 ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1198 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the construction of the variant at the national road No 14 ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1202 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the variant on the 14th national road between Famalíão, Trofa and Maia ( Trofa variant ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1208 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with an infrastructure model to improve accessibility on national road No 14, in particular in areas of confluence with the municipalities of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens and PS, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u283	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u284	You have the floor, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u285	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to this last vote, the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u286	You are registered, Mrs Carla Cruz. We shall continue with the general vote on Bill No 633 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The twenty-first amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, promoting the protection of victims of domestic violence, establishing a procedure for the provisional regulation of parental responsibilities with the provisional allocation of food pension and allowing the removal of the aggressor ( PS ). Mrs. Members, the PS submitted an application to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without voting, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No 633 / XII ( 3 ). ( a). Let us then vote on this request. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall now vote in general on Bill No 633 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) which remain in the vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote on Bill No 511 / XII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Immediate suspension of the works of the Foz Tua dam ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes and the abstention of PS MP Ana Paula Vitorino.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1206 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the works of the Foz Tua dam ( The Greens ). On this draft resolution, the PS calls for a methodology for voting as follows: we shall first vote point 1 and then points 2 and 3 together. We shall then vote on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes and the abstention of PS MP Ana Paula Vitorino.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on points 2 and 3 of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1153 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Access to higher education of specialized arts courses in visual and audiovisual arts and specialized music and dance education ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1087 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Students of artistic education who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1199 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ). The PS calls for a separate vote — first, of points 1 and 2 together and then of points 3 and 4 together. Let us then vote together on points 1 and 2. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We now vote on points 3 and 4 together. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u287	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u288	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u289	Madam President, it is to announce a declaration of vote on my own behalf and on behalf of some other Members of the PSD, concerning the three draft resolutions which have now been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u290	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1192 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government build a health unit in Odivelas ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1200 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1244/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1196 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government justice measures in the economy for municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE ). The PS calls for the method of voting separately from the different points of the draft resolution — firstly, points 1, 2 and 3 together, and then point 4. We shall therefore vote on points 1, 2 and 3 together. [[Subject to vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We now vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u291	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u292	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u293	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-09.u294	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1205 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the revision of the Code of Municipal Property Tax in the light of criteria of greater fiscal equity and social justice ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1195 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintains the service of proximity to financial allocations, safeguarding the territory, municipalities, public services and populations ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the fourth Act No 8 / 2012 of 21 February which adopts the rules applicable to undertakings and late payments of public entities. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 747 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the Law of Commitments and Late Payments ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1211 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October, which, in use of the legislative authorization granted by Law No 74 / 2014 of 2 September, amends the Statutes of the House of Douro, approved by Decree-Law No 277 / 2003 of 6 November, defines the arrangements for regularizing its debts and creates the conditions for its transition to a private law association, ending the current statute of public association of Casa do Douro ( BE ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1212 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October, which, in use of the legislative authorization granted by Law No 74 / 2014 of 2 September, amends the Statutes of the House of Douro, approved by Decree-Law No 277 / 2003 of 6 November, defines the arrangements for regularizing its debts and creates the conditions for its transition to a private law association, ending the current status of public association of Casa do Douro ( The Greens) [ Parliamentary assessment No 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1213 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October, which, in use of the legislative authorization granted by Law No 74 / 2014 of 2 September, amends the Statutes of the House of Douro, approved by Decree-Law No 277 / 2003 of 6 November, defines the arrangements for regularizing its debts and creates the conditions for its transition to a private law association, ending the current status of public association of Casa do Douro ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 118 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1154 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an audit by the Court of Auditors on measures to support socially necessary employment ( CIS, CIS + and CIS Heritage ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1207 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes to the Government the urgent lifting of an exhaustive appeal by public administration bodies and all other contracting parties to employment-inclusion contracts ( CIS ) and employment-inclusion contracts ( CIS + ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1191 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By complying with the legislation establishing medical and free follow-up to former workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1168 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — For compliance with the right to free medical follow-up to workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ), including the exemption from moderate rates ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1211/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By complying with Law No 10 / 2010 of 14 June, which establishes the duty of the State to ensure the obligation of periodic and free medical supervision to the workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1203 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — By ensuring through the National Health Service to the former workers of the UNE ( National Uranio Company ) and their families of periodic and free medical follow-up ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 94 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 189 on decent work for domestic workers adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 100th meeting. the session, held in Geneva on 16 June 2011. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1048 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Convention on Dignified Work for Domestic Workers and take appropriate measures to implement it ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 634 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify Convention No 189 of the International Labour Organisation on domestic labour ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 93 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Sixth Additional Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 5 March 1996. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 95 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Simplified Extradition Agreement between the Republic of Argentina, the Federal Republic of Brazil, the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic, signed in Santiago de Compostela, on 3 November 2010. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished voting. The next plenary session is held on Wednesday 14, with the following agenda: political statements; joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1137 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen investment in dredging works in national ports, particularly in the port of Póvoa de Varzim ( PSD ), 1194 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures guaranteeing the safety of ports and the protection of coastal shoreline ( BE) and 1209 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a work priority plan at the fishing ports throughout the country ( CDS-PP ) ; and the general debate of draft law No 680 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — expressly commends gender identity in the field of the right to equality in access to employment and at work, making the fifth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PS ). The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
