ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u1	Mrs. Members, Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, Secretary of State for the Treasury and Secretary of State for Paramentary Affairs and Equality — whom I welcome — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein. 344 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Set the new VAT rates to be applied in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 345 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the information system scheme of the Portuguese Republic, which falls to 1. the Commission ; draft resolutions 1525 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the cancellation of Order No 5610 / 2015, of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea, which has designated the Douro Renewal Federation as an entity that happens to the House of Douro ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1526 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Implementation of the Ombudsman's deliberations on teachers of the Group of Schools D. Maria II dismissed due to administrative error ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission ; and draft deliberation No 31 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u3	Let us then start point 1 of our agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the Left Block, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the privatisation of the TAP. For the opening of the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Do you want to know what a real urban myth is? This is what the government tells us about the sale of TAP. In fact, there was no sale, but an offer for a symbolic value of EUR 10 million. It is an insult to this value that has been paid by TAP. I said yesterday Mr. Prime Minister that it took courage to move forward with this operation. Where Steps Rabbit sees courage, we see a poorly explained business, very poorly explained. From the moment the final proposals were received, the Parpublica had five days to carry out its analysis, and it did so in three days and, for the apotheaeosis to be total, the government still made news to account for the nuanced that the ministers did to choose the winner candidate. The rush was so much that the government didn't even sleep on it. Selling TAP, whatever it costs, was the only purpose followed by Pires de Lima and Sérgio Monteiro. It really takes courage: courage to assume that this business is positive for the country; courage to think that it preserves the interests of the Portuguese, both of those living here and those scattered around the world; courage to dispatch the largest domestic exporter by tuta and half. According to the Secretary of State, the headquarters of the company, the stay and direction of the company in Portugal, key links, operating licences and even public service obligations are ensured for at least 10 years. When it is Sergio Monteiro himself who says it we already know what is expected from here to 11 years: the possible closure of routes where strong Portuguese communities, such as Johannesburg or Caracas, and the tax office of TAP flying to Holland or Luxembourg. Worse still, even the headquarters of operations may cease to be in Portugal. Courage is to continue to ensure that TAP is guaranteed as a national flag airline. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we've seen this film and we've done it in the past. The best arguments against the privatisation of TAP were presented — see irony there — by the government itself. It was Paulo Portas, Pires de Lima and Sergio Monteiro who spent the days of strike of the pilots to draw attention to the strategic importance of the company for tourism, to its importance as the largest national exporter and to ensure Portugal's connection to the communities of migrants scattered around the world. It is regrettable that they do not want to see that TAP is not a strategic company only on strike days, but on 365 days of the year. But if you lose control of the TAP it would always be a strategic error for the country, the untransparent way in which this process was managed is unacceptable. This large company does not give up, directly and indirectly, billions of euros for the economy and even to balance the country's trade balance to a few weeks of elections. Worse, you don't literally open up a business with this complexity in less than a month. It is an incredible and very revealing efficiency, for a government that takes more than three months to put teachers in schools and thus does not get the school year to start in time and time. If there were any doubts about the opacity of the operation, the confusing press conference of the Council of Ministers would always be sufficient to dissipate them. None of the questions on deadlines, clauses, purchasing options were adequately explained. Who knows was the announced tone of the ministers, another sign of the enormous tranquility and normality, which surrounded this privatization! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept, the Portuguese people cannot accept losing a company that has been able to develop without 1 cent of the state for years and years, despite the bad business to which it has been subjected. The news about the imminent collapse of TAP is old. As early as 2002 we did not forget, they filled up layers of newspapers to justify the imminent privatization. Thirteen years have passed and the TAP has grown: it has grown in routes, it has grown in number of planes, it has grown in passengers and it has grown in national and international influence. Now, once again, the government wants to sell TAP at all costs, having never questioned, even, the European Commission about a possible injection of State money, which would, in fact, be worth mentioning, the first in 20 years and a value of 10 times less than that which Maria Luís Albuquerque placed in the New Bank, still for months. We are sure that most Portuguese do not want to lose the company that binds Portugal to Portuguese scattered around the world, or do not want to see repeated episodes like that of PT. Again, I repeat, we've seen this film and unfortunately we know how it ends. for our part, the question is clear: the future of TAP is not determined by any inevitability, but by the political will to preserve. We do not give this tragedy waiting to happen as right and we will not hesitate to make every effort at our disposal to prevent an operation that goes against the interests of the country and the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u5	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The DNA of governments, its reformist profile, its determination to continue with the structural transformation of the economy is seen at times like this. Regardless of political tactics, what the Government has to continue is the implementation of its Programme, which contained external commitments previously made to this Government, but which are very important for the preservation, viability, growth, present and future of the TAP. Those who have heard here who decide whatever is about the privatisation of TAP within a month are dissociated. Only by distraction can Mrs. Mariana Mortágua say so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Since the beginning of our mandate, and for more than 15 years in the country, the need to find private capital in the TAP to ensure its growth and development is a reality. The opposition parties, on this process, first said they did not know the bill of charges. Having been published, they said: « Well, but this is an empty set of intentions, it has no practical application». They now know the practical application and say: « Well, there are some details that have not yet been explained». Mrs Mariana Mortágua has forgotten to say that her most important asset, which is the preservation of the hub in Portugal, which means employment for many people in the TAP and outside the TAP, is assured by at least 30 years. And there is no known history of a company that has a hub on one site and headquarters on the other, i.e., TAP will remain in Portugal for many decades, will export to Portugal for many decades, will pay taxes in Portugal for many decades. It is the growth of the company that has been assured for many decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u7	That's what they said about PT and Cimpor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u8	The gentlemen. Members know that Portugal must continue to remain a country of impeccable reputation and credibility. That is why the Socialist Party should clarify in this debate whether or not it is in a position to say that this reputation of Portugal, before Portuguese and international investors who want to inject more than 300 million euros into the TAP, is assured. This is because if the future of TAP is compromised by these words or decisions of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese know who to ask for accounts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u9	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u10	Mr. President, Mr.as and Mr. Secretaries of State, dear colleagues : A first note to record that, once again, we do not have the presence of Minister Pires de Lima. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As is typical, he hides behind Mr. Secretary of State and the majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a relevant and important note because yesterday the PSD prevented, in the Committee on Economics and Public Works, that we could discuss a request from the Socialist Party for the Minister to explain everything that needs to be explained in terms of the proposal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know it bothers you, but you stop protecting the Minister and approve of his coming to Parliament to clarify what needs to be clarified. Mr. Secretary of State, there is a need to say that the opposition says that some things are unknown and some details are not known. You have blocked access to virtually all the documentation. The question remains: what are you hiding to not give access to the documentation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u12	...and not to want to come to explain to the Committee on Economics and Public Works. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Secretary of State asked a question about the position of the Socialist Party and, of course, it is not without answer, because we have had a very clear position. We understand that the Government is not defending the country's strategic interest or public interest. It can come with all the canteens of the past that the Portuguese know very well that the only thing the PS has always defended was a partial privatization of the capital of TAP if so justified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u13	False memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u14	But I will not waste much time on it, Mr. Secretary of State, because the Portuguese also know that there is a great difference between Antonio Costa and Pedro Passos Coelho. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u15	It is that António Costa does what he says, unlike Pedro Passos Coelho. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we will fulfill what we have said. If this business does not serve the national interest, we will not hesitate to use the clause that the Government has placed and approved. I wanted to ask you four or five very simple and objective questions, since the government is robbing itself of the answers. From what Mr. Secretary of State had transmitted in the briefing yesterday, we have noticed, as the people say, that any buyers — and it is not their fault — that they want to "buy the dog with the hair of the dog". What we realize is that we have here an operation to put stock in stock, leaseback planes, eventually a abandonment of the purchase of the A350s, a abandonment of the design, which was from the TAP and the Portuguese state, to fly to China, with the negative effects that all this has on tourism and, of course, the one who wants to buy the TAP will finance itself for many of these situations. In other words, everything that the State could and should do is done and therefore in terms of capitalization of the TAP, the same will be done with the resources of the TAP itself. It is important that Mr. Secretary of State is available to clarify further in detail. Second point (and even without words, Mr. Secretary of State, because I am seeing the note and it is deliberate) is a shame to sell TAP — and I will use the analogy that Mr.Pires de Lima likes — half of Jorge Jesus. It's a shame! It is indeed a shame and agreed that the Secretary of State would explain, because it is only EUR 10 million in fact. But, Mr Secretary of State, explain to us the renegotiation of debt, explains to us the guarantee that the State — and that the Minister yesterday assumed — will give in relation to debt and also explain to us the matter of effective control of the Company, because what came to the public is that, everything indicates, violates Community legislation. It is important that this is well explained and clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u16	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, June 11, 2015, was a day of mourning for the Portuguese — the government has taken an important step in delivering a piece of our sovereignty to the private. The PSD government / CDS, through Mr. Secretary of State of Transport, or sells everything, because that is how it will certainly stay for history... And I say « certainly» because there are those who say no, there are those who say that Mr. Secretary of State will remain in history as the cover of the public sector. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u18	But I was saying that the government replaced TAP for some EUR 10 million. With business of these, Mr. Secretary of State, when you leave the Government you will certainly not lack proposals for seller, auctioneer or any other trade show. He replaced TAP for some changes, Mr. Secretary of State. Congratulations! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] In fact, it is necessary to have the courage to act on behalf of the public interest to think about the gula of the private sector. In fact, it is not for everyone, but only for great artists and great men of courage, as is Mr. Secretary of State and the other funeral agents of the public sector! A company such as TAP, exchanged for EUR 10 million, is in fact not a work for any mortal, even for brave men! Men who have lacked courage to look at this important company as a potential development in the service of national interest and in the service of Portuguese and who have not lacked courage to, over time, prepare the land creating limitations and constraints to its management, to show the inevitability of its sale. In fact, a similar inevitability to that with which the Government of the Socialist Party sought to sell to the Portuguese when it tried to sell TAP to Switzerland. Swissair was the only way to save TAP, it was the only way to keep TAP operating. Almost 20 years later, Swissair no longer exists, Sabena, then also sold to Swissair, no longer exists, thousands of workers from both companies were fired and, in the meantime, TAP grew and contributed 3% of GDP. Men of courage who say, with all conviction, that the government cannot recapitalize the TAP because the European Commission does not allow it, but when the European Commission says that it is not true, when the European Commission comes to disprove the government, with all the courage they put their heads on the sand, as the other did, or wash their hands, as the other did. Brave men unable to see the importance of this airline and what it represents for the country and for Portuguese: a strategic company that, in addition to being one of the largest domestic exporting companies, has just been an instrument of our sovereignty, involving, directly and indirectly, 20 000 jobs and that each year contributes to the state safes with about 100 million euros in IRS and with another 100 million euros in social security. As Mr. Prime Minister says, it takes a lot of courage. In fact, it takes a lot of courage to exchange a company with this size and importance for some EUR 10 million, a small percentage of what was the tax forgiveness that the Government has recently granted to the New Bank! Finally, courageous men who present a notebook of charges where they require the buyer — stop! — winning public tenders to ensure the air connections of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. In this respect, because it still has time, even though, from the perspective of the Secretary of State, it is certainly a detail, I would like to ask you a question which I would like to see clarified, because it is very important for us. Mr. Secretary of State says that the buyer consortium must fulfil the commitments—right! — if they are not met, there may be a reversal of the contract. However, Mr Secretary of State, one of the buyer's commitments is to ensure air connections to the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. As the Secretary of State will certainly know, these links are awarded by public tender. If the buyer does not win these public contests, that means that the buyer will be in short supply with the commitments made. Mr Secretary of State, if the buyer does not eventually win public tenders to make connections to the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, do we have a reason to cancel the contract, in the perspective of the Government? This may be a detail for Mr. Secretary of State, but for us it is of utmost importance, to understand also the set of details that involves the book of charges which, in our view, is no more than a book of lies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u19	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : I have heard a lot of national interest here. I believe that the national interest, the interest of all is to make the TAP viable. For the TAP to be viable—and it is not an option today, but 18 years ago, reaching the majority already, therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the participation of the private sector in the TAP. The Government's decision in our view helps to save TAP, its international prestige, routes, flights and jobs. I have heard here about the need to defend national interest, the defense of TAP, I have not heard of more than EUR 1000 million in debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u22	... of EUR 500 million of negative own capital, in the need for urgent investment in the fleet and the opposition, when criticised, does not present a single proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u23	It's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u24	More: I heard about courage here. The opposition must have the courage to tell the Portuguese that, in order to save the TAP without intervention by the private, it will have to increase, and much, the taxes that the Portuguese pay! It's that courage that the opposition doesn't have! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I also heard about the possibility of direct State aid, knowing that opposition to European rules is an impossibility, knowing the opposition to what happened in Alitalia, where there was this strengthening of the State, but with counterpartes — dismissal and almost the end of the company, or forgetting more recently what happened in Cyprus Airlines, in which, even if it had helped, the Cypriot State was obliged to repay, and with interest, the same aid. Today, the company is about to fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u26	In order not to speak at the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo, in which if this government had gone to the opposition song, we would have to pay compensation with what? With the taxes of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Be brave of the opposition! [[Protests by Mr. Jorge Fão.]] Mr Secretary of State, the winning proposal seems to us that it guarantees this interest: it offers early, it has an urgent mandate book, maintenance of the hub in Lisbon, maintenance of the privileged relationship with Africa and Latin America, maintenance of the Autonomous Regions and, worth speaking the truth, is an operation worth EUR 354 million, already,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u27	Already? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u28	... I repeat, EUR 354 million, now, almost EUR 500 million, if everything goes well. And above all — and with this ending — if the Socialist Party, which has one opinion when it is in government and another when it is in opposition, in this as in other cases, has responsibility? It's just that in two months. PS members have already given two very serious signals regarding what reliability should be for external investors: first, they have broken the agreement on IRC down and now at all costs they seek to make TAP impossible. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u29	It is about undermining trust and using demagogy in the economy. It's not a good way! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u30	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u31	Mr President, Mr State Secretaries, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government does not contain pride and satisfaction. The government is happy, perhaps one of the most important moments in your life. The government has announced, with pump and circumstance, the decision to sell our flag airline for EUR 10 million to an American investor, a specialist investor in tearing down companies and selling them for the most expensive price possible. Morris Air, founded by Mr. David Neeleman, sold to the Southwest Airline in 1993 ; Westjet, in Canada, founded by Mr. Neeleman, sold in 1999 ; Blue, Brazil, founded in 2008, has been trying to scatter it in the stock market for two years................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u33	Many congratulations, Mr Secretary of State, this is the strategic vision that you have for the country, but that is not what we propose. What we have heard from Mr Nuno Magalhães was taxing: the opposition does not present a single proposal. This is said by the honourable Member who voted against draft resolution No 1145 / XII a few weeks ago ( 4 ). ( a ) the CFP, which presented proposals, concrete solutions for the flag airline. The CDS, the PSD and also now the PS, perhaps out of fear, have refused to discuss specifically the proposals that we have put forward. So, of two, one : either Mr was not in the Chamber or, then, was and lied. I will still have to hear the record to see if Mr Nuno Magalhães, who even seems to me to intervene, was now deliberately missing the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u34	You've got to see the recording better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u35	In fact, we find that you are afraid to discuss the CFP proposals and the concrete solutions that the TAP calls for and that workers have been proposing for several years because they desperately try to force pseudo-invitability to say that there are no alternatives. There are still alternatives today and this process can and must be stopped! What the Portuguese State does about TAP is much more expensive if it let TAP go for these interests and for these economic groups than what it can do in defense of the Company to keep it in the public sphere. You speak in EUR 1000 million of TAP's debt. Is it or not true that two or three years ago the debt was higher, was it about 1200 million? Debt is falling with TAP in the public sphere. Is it not true that these EUR 1000 million, almost half, over EUR 400 million, correspond to the leasing of the fleet of aircraft? Is it not true that when you say EUR 354 million already, you are being denied by Minister Pires de Lima himself, who said that this is not the amount, but yes, 269 in the closing and 10 million now?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u36	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u37	Are you telling lies to Minister Pires de Lima? Or is Minister Pires de Lima lying to the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u38	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u39	Understand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have is a very concrete announcement by the Secretary of State who, at yesterday's press conference, said that TAP's debt will continue to be paid by cash flows generated by the Company as it so far happens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u41	... which means that in relation to debt, this operation does not strictly alter anything in relation to TAP debt. In fact, when you speak of the 354 million, which are 269, it is important to remember that Port No. 358 -A / 2015, signed by Mr. Secretary of State, authorizes the payment over these 10 years for the privates who are left with the management of the Port Metro, with the privatisation that you have decided, of EUR 420 million plus VAT. We ask: how do you boast of a business that promises 260 million and says there's no money to be tied up in the flag airline, when you deliver a tray, in the next 10 years, 420 million more VAT to the private consortium than to stay with the Metro do Porto?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u42	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u43	But what are these criteria?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u45	Madam President, we say something very clear: there is no good price to sell TAP, because there is also no good price to sell the country. There is someone in this country saying that TAP is not for sale, that the country is not for sale! [[PCP applause.]] We can't discuss whether TAP is cheaper or cheaper, if it sells faster or slower! We need to defend interest and sovereignty and that means defending the TAP by keeping it in the public sphere. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u46	Mr Nuno Filipe Matias spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Privatization of TAP was a real success. A success because it guarantees a future of investment and growth for a company that tells us a lot. A success because it will continue to be a company that is an image of Portugal in the World. A success because this is the only way to defend the company so that it grows, invests and continues to create value. Some bad guys raise their voice and talk about crime. It is important to ask whether there would be no crime if the company that has negative own capitals, a high liability, an asphyxiated treasury that generates astronomical damage. Would there be a greater crime than choosing a public intervention solution that would cost all taxpayers even more money and lead to a restructuring that would lead to redundancies, aircraft sales and route reductions? Others also spoke in shame and in selling themselves for a bagatela. There will be little more shame than, using dishonesty, saying that the TAP Group was privatized by 10 million when we all know that the sale of 61 % of its capital was made by 354 million euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u48	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u49	... to which is the debt and liability of more than EUR 1000 million and the investment in more than 53 aircraft? We are talking about an unparalleled financial effort in a company, which has been independently assessed as having a negative value, recorded at least EUR 274 million. Here too, privatization was a success: the Portuguese will no longer have a liability and a debt of more than EUR 1000 million. TAP gains financial muscle and a strategic development plan and, above all, to respond to some concern about some opposition—the winning consortium has as its main investor a Portuguese entrepreneur who has already stated that he will invest in a growing TAP and in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u50	There's always someone who opens the door!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u51	For all this, it was a success and opens up a new and hopeful time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u52	This is patriotic politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u53	Portuguese capitalism is very good. Wing out of here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u54	Also in this time it is important to realize what the opposition defends. The PS, in its irresponsible vision, rips out what it defended and signed. It is forgotten that as a government, it has never implemented a different solution and, for example, defends SAS Scandinavian Airlines, forgetting to say that its restructuring led to 2000 redundancies of workers. More: he now says that if he is a government, he wants to reverse this process. What's going to happen? More layoffs, sale of aircraft, reduction of routes. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u55	Look at CIMPOR and PT! Ask Totta!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u56	But more: the Portuguese are learning that Dr. António Costa's PS continues fantastic, with serious problems with truth, spending, easy promise, but with the bill to pay to whom, perhaps, he would come next. The PCP already announces as an alternative solution what happened, for example, in Poland.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u57	It's fake! He refuses to work on a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u58	What happened in Poland? There were 833 workers who were fired, sale of aircraft, reduction of routes. It says the CFP that the PAT is the largest national exporter, with the notion that it has a cash flow of 2 million euros leading to the fact that it does not currently have enough cash for investment and a strategic plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u59	He's got more than three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u60	It also says the Left Block that, within 10 years, we run the risk of TAP not being Portuguese. The problem is, if not privatized, we run the risk of not having TAP in 10 years, and we don't want it either! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u61	They said that 15 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u62	Once again, in this process, it is political for the incendiary phrase, for the unalternative contest and without explaining the consequences. Today, more and more Portuguese realize that utopia costs money that we do not have, that citizens do not want to pay in the form of taxes, and therefore the defence of national interest is required by a careful, demanding and courageous decision. We have already said it in this House: we all like TAP, we all want it to continue to be a pride for our country. But it will remain for history that there was a government, this government, which decided for a process that has an effective, concrete solution and that creates conditions for the TAP to be stronger, bigger and better! This makes all the difference in relation to what is the pride of misfortune that announces an alternative, but does not explain the consequence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u63	This is the second government selling TAP. The first was fascism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u64	We want a future TAP, which invests, that grows. This is the solution that the Government has found, something which no opposition party has so far defended from the point of view of the objective realization of a future that defends the workers and the value of the Company, a company that will continue to be a flag of Portugal and of all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : So much work to convince the Portuguese that the troika has left Portugal to now come to say that they privatize TAP because of the troika! Mr. Secretary of State, we know they've wanted to sell TAP for decades. In fact, these decades are proof that TAP knows and can survive in public hands, because already 10 or 15 years ago they said that if it wasn't privatized, it wouldn't survive. The privatisation of TAP or the maintenance of TAP in public hands is a matter of political interest—it has already been explained here. TAP's debt has been decreasing, TAP has been able to multiply its routes, has gained influence. Part of the TAP liabilities that use as blackmail or as a political argument comes from leasing and has as correspondence a fleet that is an asset and therefore is not pure financial debt, as they want to make it appear. In fact, the Government has repeatedly used the European Commission's argument as one of the inevitability to not be able to keep TAP in public hands. It is very interesting to see how the Government treats the Portuguese Constitution and the European Commission. in the case of the Portuguese Constitution the laws are made, they are thrown to the Constitutional Court and then they see what it gives. in the case of the European Commission, there is no attempt to ask. This is the hierarchy of the authority of this government: first the European Commission and the ideological interests of privatization and then, in the background, the Constitution. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is a good comparison to understand the priorities of this government. Mr. Secretary of State has nothing to deny that this was not a quick sale. Five working days to analyze a proposal for this complexity? Oh, my God! Five working days? Oh, my God! It would be loaded if it were not dangerous from the point of view of national interest. In fact, it was Mr. Secretary of State himself who came several times to the public saying that we were in a hurry to privatize TAP. That is why he did not say that he was not in a hurry, because, and he asked to say it, he was in a hurry. This may have contributed to the devaluation of the company itself. Mr Nuno Matias came here to speak of incendiary sentences of the opposition to say: "But if the TAP is not privatized, it goes to destruction, it goes to bankruptcy". Aren't these incendiary phrases? Oh, my God! Isn't this a blackmail and fear policy? Or if it privatizes or disappears? Aren't these incendiary phrases?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u67	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u68	The honourable Member then said that with this privatisation, the Portuguese people no longer owe the TAP « to the back ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u70	Is this an argument with intellectual seriousness? It's just that TAP never cost 1 cent of the debt to the Portuguese. TAP pays your debt with your cash flow. In fact, how it will continue to happen to the private. So, what's the benefit? I would like Mr State Secretary to explain that capital injection is this and that magic resolution of TAP problems is this, if the debt continues to be paid in the same way as it has been paid up here and, guess, it has not been paid up here with taxpayers' money. In fact, I would like Mr. Secretary of State to clarify a somewhat confusing explanation which Mr. Pires of Lima gave yesterday. We do not understand how the debt will be paid, if it will be restructured, to whom it will last, such as the true value of the increase in capital, which is not clear, how nothing in this process is clear! Mr Secretary of State, we have already said, and we reiterate: the problem is not in value. The problem is to know what you're going to tell immigrants when there's no guarantee of the routes they have in 10 years. They spoke in decades of guarantees for TAP. Decades! Now—and this was said at the press conference— there has been a 10-year guarantee for strategic routes. What do you have to say about the chances of spreading in the stock market and total uncontrollability of TAP owners in the future? Mr. Secretary of State, it is a policy of irresponsibility and impunity, because by 10 years, 20 or 30 years will not be here to be charged with what you are doing. Today, it speaks of Portuguese investors, maintenance of strategic centers, of national interest. And we answered: CIMPOR, PT, EDP, REN, Totta, all the companies that were sold 30 or 40 years ago, with the same conversation that Mr. Secretary of State now has to convince the Portuguese that this is a good privatization. Mr Secretary of State — stop! — the Portuguese have already seen the result of the privatisations, they have already seen the prices of gasoline becoming more expensive, they have already seen the prices of EDP, which belongs to the Chinese State, they have become more expensive, they have already seen the problems of competition on the market and they already know that this is not a solution that defends the interests of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u71	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government approved yesterday for the 61 % transaction of the capital of the TAP a minimum value of EUR 354 million, of which, it is true, 10 million represent the value of the shares. But of the overall value of the transaction, 338 million was the value that the government chose to be injected into the TAP. This is because there is no company operating simultaneously with negative own capital of more than EUR 500 million and debt of more than EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u73	It's not 1 billion, it's 1 billion. Don't say 1 billion because that leads to mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u74	This is simply not possible. It's just that if it's true, just like the gentlemen. Members say, debt has fallen, it is also true that capital has become more negative. And there is no company that survives these conditions. Mrs. Members, what happens, at a certain time—and this is perfectly visible with the performance that the company has had in recent times, the result of a series of vicissitudes related either to strikes or to the increasingly competitive conditions—is that, if the company then fails to pay a part of its debt, even the aircraft that are supporting the leasing can be lost and in that case it is the entire operation of the company that is in question. Mrs. Members, it is not possible for a company with a negative capital of 500 million and more than 1 billion debt to survive and the State to inject money is no alternative. [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] The story has shown us several times, particularly by the example of the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros, which are the far more negative consequences that can happen there. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u75	Don't you want to clarify that by 1 billion, Secretary of State? It's just that in Portugal it's not 1 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u76	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact is that the private party intends to do what the State should do and does not want. The private will make more-values than the state could do, put the Company in stock. This does not defend the public interest, it is not aligned with national strategic interests. from there the position of the Socialist Party, which is very clear. Mr Nuno Magalhães, I recognize your ability to do better than you did recently. If I did not recognize that you know what you are talking about but that you are deliberately distorting the truth, I would advise you to study the examples you have given and that you have nothing to do with the situation of the TAP and the alternative proposals that the Socialist Party and other parties have presented and are also very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u78	Which one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u79	So when you say that there are no alternatives, you are not telling the truth. The truth is, it doesn't change anything about debt. The truth is that TAP has not received 1 € from the State Budget for 18 years. The truth is that before this privatisation process, TAP's debt has been decreasing over the past five years. Except for Brazil's problem, which we should have solved, TAP was generating profits in air transport. So we are far from a catastrophic vision. In fact, I don't know anyone except this government who wants to sell a good and who spends all the time depreciating that good. That is to defend private interests, it is not to defend public interest. It is to want to do a whole steam business that favors private interests and does not defend the national strategic interest. There is a question for which the Secretary of State has not answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u80	Mr President, there is no time left.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u81	I shall finish, Madam President, with a question which I think will mark the debate in the coming days... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u82	...and perhaps that is why the Secretary of State has not answered yet. Let's see if Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro answers. All the news reports that effectively whoever will control the management of the Company is Mr. David Neeleman and everything else is a legal and financial engineering...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u83	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u84	...and the Secretary of State knows that this violates Community legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u85	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Let's then talk about the Socialist Party's dream while it was in government, which was the privatization of TAP, and let's even talk about some of its ministers. What did Jorge Coelho say in 2001? « The TAP will be privatized in the second half of 2001 », guaranteed Jorge Coelho to the Journal of Business.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u87	34%!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u88	What did Vieira da Silva say in 2007 in a debate focused on social justice and unemployment issues? There were already debates about these in the time of the Socialist Party's government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u89	And aggravated with the current government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u90	Mr Vieira da Silva told Mr Bruno Dias : « (...) not knowing precisely the situation of the TAP, nor having regard to it, I think that we should all reflect on what has happened in the airline market. Mr President, it is not always the most unfavorable solution that seems to be the most unfavorable." But Mr Bruno Dias, who is very persistent in this matter and is very in the spirit of the film Goodbye, Lenin! , since it took time to recognise the reality, it ended up asking one more question as to which studies carried out allowing the Socialist Government to support the position of the TAP, to which the Socialist Party replied that the Government, by joint decision of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Finance established a Commission for the Economic and Financial Restructuring of TAP with a view to privatization. But it doesn't say the percentage of privatization. Finally, when it is the Socialist Party to privatize it is "Long live Swissair! But when it is the center-right is « Down to Blue! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There are those who understand you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u92	And what did the Socialist Party say about such a policy of rigour to think about people? Is it true that the Socialist Party has requested assessments, but what do the evaluations say? They say the company is worth less, worth between 274 million and 512 million. I repeat, it's worth less! That is why, with the Company's assessments of debt and negative capital, this solution is indeed the best. I would like to say more: TAP's big problem was the Brazilian Maintenance business made in the time of the Socialist Party government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u93	It was done at that time, but worsened in the current government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u94	This government that said it wanted to rule rigorously for people... In addition, there is a news from the Newspaper of the time that says that the sale was not made with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Is this rigour? This is to rule strictly for people, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? And, moreover, for those who ask: "So, what about Europe? I would like to say that several examples have already been given of what is happening in European rules in relation to State aid to companies. But the Socialist Party tried! What did the public newspaper say in 2009? Brussels has banned further aid to the TAP and believes not to back up that decision. So this path has already been made. Sometimes it is advisable to look a little further into history to realize that we have a serious problem with the future of TAP. Mrs. Members, the only possible track for the TAP is the entry of private capital. What can guarantee the present and future of TAP is the private capitalisation that has been done by the government and what can guarantee the maintenance of hub in Portugal as a strategic platform is the solution in which a buyer is in a geographical situation other than Portugal and that it powers the routes of TAP, which empowers the strategic position of Portugal, which empowers the links to Africa and Latin America and can, of course, save the Company by providing it with better conditions to use more and to contribute more to the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u95	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u96	That is the way we should go and, if there were any good sense and some seriousness in the debate, the Socialist Party would agree with it and would not have made the speech it did, which does not defend the interests of the country, nor defend the interest of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u97	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u98	Madam President, I must record the fact that Mr. Secretary of State, although time is available, has not answered the question I put to him on the air connections of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. Mr. Secretary of State, where there is a public service obligation the law obliges the public tender and it is not understood how the Government may require the buyer to win public tenders. Therefore, in the face of Mr. Secretary of State's silence, I must assume and conclude that air connections to the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores are not ensured with the privatisation of TAP. The Government has failed to ensure air links between the Azores and Madeira with this privatisation. Moreover, the Government considers the links of the Azores and Madeira to be a detail only in the book of charges — indeed, in a completely singular way — to be 'Portuguese to see'. Mr. Secretary of State, I think that this detail should be enhanced for the electoral campaign that is coming there. It may be that PSD / Madeira and PSD / Azores invite you to clarify this detail during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u99	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u100	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u101	Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u102	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u104	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u105	Mr President, it is in the interests of knowing whether, through it — this is a real question — I could ask the Government to make available, for a full equality of this debate, the financial assessments that we have not even met, but which Mr Hélder Amaral has just mentioned. I think that would be very relevant to the debate we are doing, because we have been asking for these assessments for months, among other documents. Mr Hélder Amaral quoted several data from the financial assessments and it would therefore be interesting for all of us to know them. Mr President, we have already realized that, in fact, having not tried to talk to us or to take advantage of our suggestions, the government wants to have a confrontation with the Socialist Party. The whole country already understood that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u106	Mr President, it was clear, but you do not have to make this request through the Bureau. As a political request, you can address the government directly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this time of debate, I would like to make a...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u108	Mr Bruno Dias, I am very sorry, but I did not realize that Mr Hélder Amaral was also asking for the floor to, I imagine, an inquiry to the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u109	Madam President, it is exactly for an appeal to the Bureau, in the same terms as the Socialist Party. I would like to say that I am concerned about TAP and its future and that I have listened very carefully to the statement that Mr. Secretary of State made yesterday in the briefing and the values I quoted were values mentioned in that briefing. I thought the Socialist Party, also concerned about the future and the situation of TAP, was paying attention to government briefings. I get it! That's all I wanted to explain. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u110	Diliatory maneuver!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u111	Mr Bruno Dias, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u112	Mr President, after this completely excused pseudo-interpellation, I will now intervene on my own, if I may. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u113	I believe that at this point in the discussion it is important to rectify something that has been falsely said by Mr. Members of the majority. You said TAP was privatized, but it wasn't. The TAP has not been privatized, a decision has been announced on the American gentleman to whom the government wants to sell the TAP. TAP has not been sold! There are certain things that are happening and, until it is sold, there are things that will still happen. Let's see what legality and what regularity. Let's see! But right now, TAP is public and this process can stop. You can stop today, you can stop tomorrow! At any time there may be an appearance of patriotic brightness in this country that allows TAP not to be sold in this scandalous and criminal way as it is. We are in fact at the opportunity not only to stop this process, but even to reverse this scandalous and ruinous business to the country, to the state, to the economy, to sovereignty. We're not doomed to this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! The country is not condemned to these options, the country is not condemned to this policy! Politics does not have to be this, because when we hear Mr. Secretary of State say that it is at this time that we see the real DNA of governments, it is true! It is at times like this that we come to understand exactly who is the political power when it decides to sell TAP for 10 million euros. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We say: life must not be like this, politics must not be this and the people already on other occasions had a word to say about the history and future of this country and about the life of the Company. TAP isn't 10 years old, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Despite your screaming, TAP isn't 10 years old, it's 70! TAP is 70 years old! It has already been privatized by a fascist government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u114	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u115	I will finish, Madam President. TAP exists today because it is public, because it has not been privatised, otherwise it has no longer existed. As long as there is hope in this country, as long as there are those who fight, as long as there are those who continue to intervene in defense of the airline, we will have future in this country, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any entries, and as such we can conclude the current debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u117	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u118	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u119	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry as far as possible. The government still has time, but refused to give the answers to the questions put here. We continue to expect some clarification from the time it still has and which it refused to use by turning its back on a fundamental and strategic debate for the future of the country, as you well know, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u121	Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro is used to coming to the Plenary, so I don't know why he doesn't answer what they ask him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u122	Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I understand, but, as you will imagine, it is up to the government to manage its time, just as it is up to the bench of the Left Block to manage its own. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] The current debate required by the Left Block on the privatisation of the TAP is concluded, so we say goodbye to the honourable Members. State Secretaries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u123	It's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u124	We will continue with the joint discussion of petition No 132 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Tiago Rafael Bessa Landreiras and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to set up a national age-protection committee and to launch a awareness-raising campaign to alert the abandonment and ill-treatment of many elderly victims, and draft resolution No 1517 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to promote the rights of the elderly and to protect them in respect of forms of violence, loneliness and abuse(BE). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Cecília Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to welcome all the people who have subscribed to this petition, which is of the greatest urgency in relation to the complaint of concerns about violence, abuse and loneliness that the elderly and the claims expressed here are victims. in this sense, the Left Block accompanies these concerns. First of all, it must be borne in mind that, despite the work done by the security forces, violence against the elderly reaches alarming numbers. This is what we recognize through the Annual Internal Security Report and that is what we recognize through the data of the APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ), which at this level makes a work that we also recognize as very important. There are 16 victims, on average, per week and more violence against elderly people in 2014, which should alarm us. To this we add the fact that many forms of violence are practiced within the home, sometimes by the children, and, apart from violence, there is the loneliness, isolation and abuse that many of these people are victims, especially by institutions and family members, often in access to their own property, breaking their dignity and autonomy. It is in this sense that we follow the concerns that are mentioned in this petition and that at the same time we propose other measures in the name of respect and dignity, because a society that denies its past and the people who have built it is a society that is sick. in this sense, we accept and propose the creation of a national committee for the protection of elderly people, as well as the launch of national campaigns for the dissemination of data and awareness of forms of violence and ill-treatment that these people are victims. at the same time, we propose the creation of the status of the elderly, strengthening their inalienable rights and revising the disability regime in order to prevent the abuse of access to their property and income by relatives or institutions. For us, this form of abuse is shameful and requires a brake. We also propose the promotion of policies to support families, neighbourhood networks and social networks in order to promote home care and thus integrate these people into the community, valuing their experience and performance of useful functions, because many and many people are obviously capable and so they wish. at the same time, we propose a culture of generational exchange in schools, especially in public schools, which is what concerns us, particularly through curricular changes and projects that seriously address the issues of aging but which, at the same time, lead to the experience and life of these people and the work they can and should continue to do. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to create the conditions, in particular through social security, for the establishment of the support office for elderly people in our fregetes. It is because of dignity, it is out of respect that we present this legislative initiative which we hope will be carefully and with respect, too, by the other parliamentary benches. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have a very long agenda. In order not to exceed the reasonable time for discussion of all these petitions, bills and draft resolutions, the Bureau makes a serious appeal and will be very rigorous over time. Mr. João Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are, of course, to greet the petitioners who allow us to discuss again, in this plenary, a topic of utmost importance, whose concerns we not only accompany as we have been careful to overcome obstacles, improving the conditions for the provision of services to the elderly and promoting measures to solve constraints that we all know exist. We believe that it is unanimous in the Assembly, in all its benches, the concern with population ageing and all the topics with it correlated. The promotion of the dignity of men and women who have worked for many years, who have often had a difficult and painful life and now have solitude for company, deserves the greatest commitment and dedication on our part. In 2012 the Government, paying attention to the demographic reality of our country and committed to the social cohesion of Portugal, adopted a resolution by the Council of Ministers transposing to Portugal the European Year of Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations. in this resolution, it is determined the congregation of efforts of representatives of various entities, aiming to promote, participate and, above all, dialogue between public and private actors, aiming to develop initiatives that contribute to the promotion of citizenship and to the training of communities, obviously aiming at a more just and more solidarityary society.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u129	In December of this year, as a consequence of this initiative, a protocol was concluded between the Ministries of Internal Administration and Solidarity and Social Security at that time, aiming to promote cooperation, prevention of the risk of the elderly in isolation and loneliness, while increasing the quality of life and the sense of security. Today, we know that almost 40 000 elderly people live alone or isolated, thanks to the mission carried out by the professionals of the Republican National Guard, who take advantage of the proximity work they do with our elderly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u130	We know that the good news of the increase in the average life expectancy increases the "ageing of the elderly" with the increase of people aged 80 or over. We also know that the family partner reality has changed rapidly and deeply, with the traditional or classic family giving rise to new forms of family constitution. The government, attentive and sensitive to this reality, has promoted a very significant number of amendments, of which we highlight : in the home support service, increasing the supply at the same time as the elderly in their housing environment; in the drive of new evening centres, with needs-adjusted responses, and the increase of the national network of continued care, no longer speaking, of course, in the increase of minimum social and rural pensions in all budgets of this government. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by recall that there are specific problems of the oldest population layer, both those that live in large urban centres and those who live within the country, which deserve our concern. It is important to provide a proximity service, whether family or institution, promoting its rehabilitation. however, we are perfectly aware of the need to continue to build a more cohesive country, aware of the importance of its older population and doing everything to ensure the dignity it deserves. Only in this way will our country be more humane, supportive and united. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u131	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the petitioners and by reading here an excerpt from a text that has been sent to us, in which they say that the loneliness in which many elderly people live is a very dramatic, very worrying situation, which deserves deep reflection and short-term action. They propose, the petitioners, the creation of a national committee for the protection of the third age which signals and finds the answers necessary for the isolation, abandonment, ill-treatment of the elderly, as well as the launch of a national awareness campaign that alerts to this sad reality. We agree with the creation of this monitoring committee and agree with the prospect of creating a campaign to raise awareness of the problems of the elderly, but we want to say that much further action is needed. Indeed, we must defeat the right-wing policy options exercised by PS, PSD or CDS-PP, which have shot and shot the elderly for poverty and isolation. It is important to say here that the consequences in the concrete life of the elderly who are reported here are the result of cuts in reforms and pensions, the attack on public services, the freezing of reforms, a state of need, since the elderly today have to help their children, who are in a miserable social situation, the emigration of children and grandchildren, because right policy obliges families to emigrate, and the attack on public transport services that condemn the elderly to isolation. All these measures, the responsibility of the PSD/CDS government, now but also carried out by the Socialist Party in the previous government, have transformed the life of those who worked and is now reformed into an authentic hell. contrary to the PSD, PS and CDS-PP, right now, they said, the lives of reformers are no better, it is today much worse than in the past. There are many elderly people who had a quiet, calm and quality of life reform and this did not happen and does not happen because of the right-wing policy that obliges many reformers to fight for a better life and, in this respect, this petition is indeed a manifestation of struggle for that better life. Those who have always fought already know what the "home spends": those who don't always win, those who don't fight always lose. Those who have never fought and who are now forced to fight, we say that it is possible to live a better life, that it respects those who work and those who are reformed, that it is possible to build a more just society for all Portuguese, but that society, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it does not go through the political options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP. It is important here to put an end to hypocrisy, because in this respect they will say, as the PSD, the CDS and PS have said, that a better society needs to be built, that measures must be taken to break the isolation of the elderly, but in practice, day by day, in the political options, at those times when the honourable Members. Members stand to approve concrete proposals that steal from the reforms, which attack in public services, which attack on what is the public health service, which attack on public transport, which lead to the isolation of the elderly, at that time, PS, PSD and CDS-PP rise and approve measures that condemn the elderly to isolation and poverty. For the CFP, it is possible to build a society in which April values are projected in the future of the country and this requires a rupture. To those elderly who were counting on a quiet reform we say that it is possible to transform society and what matters is all the workers, more or less old, take the next step in the struggle for the transformation of this society. This is possible with the political options that the CFP has been defending. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u133	Mr Raul de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The issue is serious, it is important and I do not see that it is a reason for us to make a political or partisan rally here. The elderly deserve us much more respect than that. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u135	First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners who, in good time, have made this petition, who, in good time, submitted it to the Assembly of the Republic and who today, fortunately, have discussed here, because it is never too much to discuss this issue. This is a cross-sectional social issue that affects everyone, regardless of parties, regardless of ideologies, regardless of the sector of the society in which they are found. A social and human policy of responsibility must always have the elderly at the heart of their concern, must always have the person at the heart of their action. The proportion of people aged 65 or more has doubled in the last 45 years. This is a new reality, inversion of the demographic pyramid. Longevity—and, we say, fortunately— will, in the future, rapidly reach 81 years, today it is already 79.5 years, and in 1960 life expectancy was still in 63 years. At the same time as the increase in life expectancy, the so-called "ageing of the elderly" increases with the increase of people aged 80 or over. The right of older citizens to a dignified life is enshrined at both national and international level. Allow me to highlight Resolution 46/91 of the United Nations General Assembly, which approves the principles for the elderly, demonstrating independence, participation, care, personal achievement and dignity as nuclear vectors. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also, in Article 25 thereof. the, recognizes and respects the right of the elderly to a decent and independent existence and to their participation in social and cultural life. In Portugal, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 55 / 99 of 27 May approving the National Plan against Domestic Violence, of several concerns, seeks to promote the protection of the elderly. This government has consciously perceived this development and has sought to develop measures and respond to what is needed by the elderly and what is increasingly a new and growing reality. in this sense, it should be remembered that both the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, or the Ministry of Internal Administration, have developed programs and measures that meet these claims. And it recalled, as regards the draft resolution, that we recognize credibility, as regards how it was presented, with the seriousness of the topic it deserves, that many of the things proposed—and it is good that we all have knowledge—are already underway: the Integrated Alert System; the Habitat Comfort Programme for Older Persons; the Community Programme to Help Feed the Disabled; the Recados and Company Project; the Aging and Violence Project; the National Social Emergency Line...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u136	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u137	I conclude, Madam President. of the security side, the Solid Safety Programme and the Support Programme 65. Therefore, many of these programmes are already under way, there is a policy for the elderly. Does she have to improve? You've got to get better! It's a task that doesn't end here, that will always have to be developed, that involves all the agents...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u139	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, it involves all the actors, it involves us, as political agents, the government, as ruler, and the whole society, in an exercise of citizenship. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u140	Mrs. Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word goes to the petitioners, for the opportunity of debate and for the visibility they are giving, with this initiative, one of the serious problems of our society, isolation and ill-treatment to the elderly. 60% of the elderly live alone and this number has been increasing. Many of our elderly people see their rights diminished because of poverty, difficulty in accessing information and resources, isolation, dependence and incapacity. But being elderly cannot mean loss of rights and old age cannot be a factor reducing legal capacity or a conditioner of autonomy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u142	Being an elderly person also means being a victim of domestic violence—it has already been said here. The institutional and domestic violence that thousands of elderly people are subjected to is serious and very worrying. The numbers are alarming. It is estimated that 40% of the elderly are victims of domestic violence, increasing violence with age, from physical abuse to psychological abuse. Let me highlight here the negligence in the omission of hygiene, food and medication, often perpetrated by your own children. And the elderly have been able to denounce this violence, which is why it is silent in the context of the space where it is committed. The compulsive placement of elderly people in equipment and the abusive and illegitimate management of their heritage is also a serious form of institutional violence against the elderly. Now, living free of violence is the first of all human rights, and from this right many of our elderly are today deprived. It is also estimated that 21% of the elderly are at risk of poverty, so we consider the replacement of the protection of the solidarity complement for the elderly as a central element of poverty reduction. The continuing care network will also be reactivated, in order to reach the homes of the elderly and dependents, and this will happen now, in the next socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u143	They've decided for the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u144	The elderly cannot be deprived of their dignity and there are minimum standards for the construction of a decent society that must be respected. We must achieve, that is the challenge: to provide care, to guarantee support and to affect, in respect for your privacy and will autonomy. This is the challenge that is on the table and many auditions have been promoted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u145	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u146	... by the Sub-Commission on Equality, where we have been told that there is still much to do in family law and in successive law. Madam President, in conclusion, I mean...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u147	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u148	... we generally follow the proposal of the Left Block, although we believe that there is no need to create new structures for these measures to be implemented, in the sense of intergenerational dialogue and active and sustainable ageing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u149	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you have noted, there has been a problem with the electronic system of timing, but the Bureau has chosen not to interrupt Mrs Elza Pais's intervention and has counted time in another way, so that the honourable Member has already benefited. We will continue with the next item on our agenda, the joint discussion of petition No 410 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Carina Cristina Codeço Brandão and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for legislation to allow better conditions of mobility and accessibility on the public road in Lisbon, in particular for persons with reduced or conditional mobility, and for draft resolution No 1516 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes better accessibility on public roads and in buildings and equipment for collective use ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor, confident that, since it has not yet been possible to restore the electronic system of counting times, we will continue to account for them in another way and, therefore, I will warn the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u150	Madam President, I myself will try to control the time I have and I think it will be all right. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to begin by complimenting the more than 4000 petitioners who sent this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, which we welcome and consider important and relevant. Therefore, in fact, we present a draft resolution that goes exactly in the direction of the will and alert that the petitioners brought here. Citizens and citizens with mobility difficulties still face powerful physical obstacles to their movement, which are, in fact, obstacles to their quality of life and their social integration. We well know that there is already some legislation in this regard, such as Decree-Law No 163/2006, which determines or defines a regime of accessibility to equipment and buildings. This Decree-Law has a specific standard that sets a 10-year deadline for the adaptation of public buildings and equipment and access, but it happens that the 10 years are coming to an end — the year 2016 is already next — and these adaptations have not occurred. Therefore, we continue to have a situation that makes it impossible and excludes a number of citizens from accessing equipment, premises and buildings. In some cases, new buildings and new buildings that did not comply with the rules laid down in the law; in others, we have no doubt that austerity and cut-off policies and the lack of means of the authorities also contributed so that it would not be possible for these accessibilitys to have the investment and care that would be necessary. For the Left Block, mobility is a right and rights are not left for tomorrow, they are for today, and in a hurry. We therefore present a draft resolution which aims to promote, rapidly, with the authorities, the improvement of accessibility on the public road, the lifting of buildings, the monitoring, in accordance with the law that already exists, to ensure that it is complied with and to create a national accessibility plan, or its fulfilment, of immediate application. We must ensure that what is determined in the law is immediately complied with and that the right to mobility of these citizens and of these citizens is indeed fulfilled, and already. We are in a hurry about this, the rights are for today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u151	Mrs Deputy, even with the system failing, has strictly fulfilled the time. For an intervention, Mr David Costa now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the citizens who subscribe to the petition under consideration, with more than 4000 signatures. After almost nine years of the date of publication of the diploma concerning the promotion of accessibility, all the reality to which we have witnessed and which is the subject of the petition we are debating here, shows all the arguments mentioned by the CFP in this matter at the time of the discussion of that diploma. The approach and monitoring of accessibility problem is not in the lack of legislation, although it can be improved, but rather in its full effectiveness. In fact, there are still many concrete examples of non-application of the law that regulates the matter under consideration, either in buildings of local and central power, or at the level of buildings where public services are installed and particularly in accessibility on the public road. This evidence makes the whole legislative object of the progressive elimination of barriers, particularly urban and architectural, which allow people with reduced mobility to access all community services, a legal imperative frustrated over time, thus continually creating conditions for the effective exercise of full citizenship. Mobility and access are decisive elements in the exercise of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees and are a guarantee of equal opportunities and accessibility to public buildings and services (health, education, justice, etc.) as well as on public roads and collective equipment. Experience shows that a full exercise of citizenship also depends, among other things, on the existence of physical conditions that do not represent obstacles that prevent or diminish that right. Examples such as those that the petition itself points, of the passages of surface pawns with level deviations between the pedestrian and road routes, without identifying their limits, marked by change of texture or paint with contrasting color, are the rule that never passed the exception. But also the inaccessibility to collective transport, of which are examples the oldest stations of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, where they are missing or constantly damaged the lifts of access to the boarding station,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u154	... as well as the shortage of lifting platforms that ensure the access of all persons with reduced mobility to trains, in rail transport, is a clear case of failure to comply with Decree-Law No 163/2006 of 8 August, which constitutes a physical obstacle that hinders access and mobility, to the strain of strict compliance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mrs. Members, refusing a path of backwardness and loss of rights won by persons with disabilities, the CFP accompanies the object of the petition and will continue to struggle for strict compliance with the law, ensuring all conditions of accessibility without architectural and urban barriers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u155	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first note to welcome the efforts, work and mobilization of petitioners, because, in fact, this is a very relevant problem. All that has to do with mobility is extremely relevant and only those who have never experienced a complicated situation, who have never had to deal with family members in a situation like this, are who devalues this matter. And it is extremely important, from the outset, in matters related to the public space and with very practical aspects that we devalue in the day-to-day but which are often almost inaccessible mountains or very difficult to transpose, as is the case with the holes in the walks, the height of the walks themselves, the absence of downgradation in the corridors, the access to the stops of public road transport, everything that has to do with access to buildings. Finally, these are subjects in which we have to do much more and better. I was the rapporteur of this petition and in the Commission itself we had this difficulty and this challenge, here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the hearing of the petitioners. The overwhelming majority of the petitioners used wheelchairs, their hearing was marked for a room no. 3. the floor and was the end of the work to enter the Assembly of the Republic and access the elevators. The simple act of loading the elevator buttons, which, for any one of us, is normal, is a great difficulty for many of these petitioners. It was a very interesting hearing, it is unfortunate that it has been little involved, but we have had many and various examples, from all over the country, of what has been done good, of what has not been done, of what needs to be done, and also a great detail about projects in which society has mobilized itself, in participatory budget, in the city of Lisbon, but which, unfortunately, are somewhat late, although in realisation. So, what is important to say, Madam President, and with this ending, is that we all have to do more and better. We all have to do more, together, at central and local level, and that is why we also greet and follow the draft resolution that the Left Block brings here. I would like to end with a challenge, which is that we here, in the Assembly of the Republic, also put hands to work and we all, together, solve the problems of mobility and accessibility in the Assembly of the Republic, with which all the petitioners faced when they came here and with which the citizens with difficulty of mobility face each day. We must begin by setting an example and therefore the challenge lies with the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the Board of Directors, all of us, so that we also begin to solve the problems of this building. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u157	The record is made, Mr. Deputies. For an intervention, Mrs Odete Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I address my first words to the petitioners and to the 4094 citizens who have signed the petition, addressing them with a greeting for the noble and exemplary gesture of citizenship. We are discussing here today a petition and a parliamentary initiative on accessibility on public roads and buildings. This is certainly an important issue. People with conditional mobility expect from all of us—government, municipal chambers, parish councils and each one of us as citizens—that we use the mechanisms at the service of building a society without barriers, in order to achieve the improvement of the quality of life and the full civic and social participation of all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u160	By promoting accessibility, we guarantee the quality of life of all citizens. By ensuring autonomy, prejudices are broken down and inclusive practices are promoted, especially for people with disabilities, disability and mobility difficulties, whether elderly, pregnant or children. Portugal has made an effort, through the most varied institutions, to make the territory more accessible to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u161	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u162	Accessibility for all requires a chain of efforts, from designers to public architects and decision makers, whether central or local. The public awareness adapted to everyone, accessible to all, has been very evolutionary and has been very present in recent years. The awards have been frequent in the authorities for their good practices in these matters, such as, for example, the National Network of Cities and Villages with Mobility for All, the Flag of Mobility, Portugal Accessible, among others, for transport adapted to public buildings, ensuring urban requalification that respects accessibility, involving many responsibilities, from location to national. The National Disability Strategy (ENDEF ) came to assess these interventions. A long journey has already been taken and this House will be attentive, in what its powers are. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u163	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the more than 4000 petitioners for the theme they bring us here. Often, when we discuss these matters, we are led to think of two issues: on the one hand, safety, often also road, and on the other hand, the necessary equality that citizens deserve. First of all, let us start with the most solemn dimension, which has to do with respect for the dignity of the citizens. Allowing full mobility of any citizen, in our cities, is a dream to achieve, not only in Portugal but also in many countries known as developed and respectful of the condition of man while being free. over the past centuries, we have witnessed many changes that have allowed us to achieve freedom. These have been struggles of such importance that today, in most European countries, we can breathe true freedom. However, and by improving the sense of freedom, we were noting that, as a society, we still had a long way to go. That is why, today, we are witnessing a discussion that no longer gives a legislative dimension to the mobility of citizens but, rather, to monitor the realization of that same dignity. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u165	We also remember that the road is long and that, with the difficulties we have experienced in recent years, the speed necessary to improve these new dimensions of freedom may have been reduced. That is why it is necessary, Madam President, for us to be able to make a serious analysis of the discussion, which distinguishes the new buildings and those which, being old, have to adapt. With regard to new buildings, particularly services, it seems that much has already been achieved. Nevertheless, with regard to the adaptations of existing buildings, we believe that the lack of available resources may have delayed this process of improvements. with regard to traffic on public roads, it seems to us that it is a level playing field that has to be combined with road safety. Mobility has suffered a number of adaptations that are being able to change the mentality of those who were not used to having to share roads with soft modes of transport. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u166	We believe it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments made to the Road Code we are closer to realities that seemed distant and, therefore, we have made discussions like today much more suitable for national mobilisation. As you all know, there are a number of subjects that have been discussed in the road safety forums, and this is also a debate which must above all mobilise the entities that define the rules on urban communications routes. We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what much is to be done, but often part of what is not done is the responsibility of numerous institutions. As we know, the municipal road safety plans have been set up so that rules on urban traffic can be standardised. Question : Would the size of our discussion be the same if all the authorities had these plans implemented today? I couldn't guarantee it. But one thing is certain: the CDS agrees with much of what has been said here, either by petitioners or by other parties. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u167	However, being institutionalists and knowing the responsibilities of the various partners, such as the authorities, we cannot agree with recommendations such as « Promote, together with the authorities, improving accessibility in the public way, with priority for pedestrian crossings ; ». It's just this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's done! To tell us that it is necessary to reposition the strategy, we accept that it may be necessary to do so. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to take advantage of a valid petition and come to the trailer, in an irresponsible way, to claim that an intervention plan is necessary for tomorrow, we cannot accept, because this could only happen for two reasons: either by ignorance of reality or by the facilitation of those who do not look at resources to conquer the electorate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u168	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to begin by welcoming the petitioners who delivered this petition to the Assembly of the Republic in June last year, so it goes for a year. However, in November last year, it had already entered this petition and also because of it and other complaints and concerns that will regularly arrive at the Assembly of the Republic, The Greens intended to present a draft resolution aimed at eliminating architectural barriers, guaranteeing the right of all citizens to mobility and accessibility. This draft resolution proposes a survey, at the national level, of public service buildings in which citizens are cared for and which have problems of accessibility or mobility for people with special needs; proposes to create an action strategy, with a broad involvement and participation of authorities, associations, movements and citizens in general, with concrete goals of short, medium and long-term, and proposes that an assessment of the degree of compliance of Decree-Law No 163/2006 should be urgently referred to the Assembly of the Republic on 8 August. This draft resolution was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, giving rise to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 103 / 2014 of 23 December. Therefore, the Resolution is approved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the problem of architectural barriers does not lie with lack of legislation or lack of specific recommendations or resolutions on the subject. The problem lies with the practical component, the implementation of the measures already determined. And, in fact, there are still great steps to take in this direction, because people with reduced mobility still feel great embarrassment in their day-to-day about what they find permanently ahead of them. Sometimes, we just put ourselves a little in people's place to realize the difficulty of living like this on a day-to-day basis. For example, going to a wheelchair court and someone has to come pick us up to get us up to the lap, some stairs, it's confrontational, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! A court should not thus receive the citizens! Neither health centres nor so many other public services, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Later, transport also creates these difficulties, including some stations, where lifts are permanently damaged, and also public roads make us encounter these difficulties, as the petition reports. Then there are other difficulties that, not being itself permanent—but are physical, yes— have to do with our day-to-day in the city. I remember that example, which I gave when we discussed the draft resolution of The Greens, of the cars, permanently, above the walks, taking away their space so that people can pass. And then for people with reduced mobility, it becomes much more complicated. I still remember traffic signs sometimes caught in the middle of walks, so that people, if they have to pass, for example, with a baby cart or a wheelchair, can't do it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a culture here that needs to be profoundly altered. And if we want a society for all, with respect for all, we must turn to practice. The Assembly of the Republic, which has already adopted legislation and a resolution on the subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u170	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u171	I shall even finish, Madam President, by saying that the Assembly of the Republic has an obligation to have a permanent look at the exercise of such legislation and resolutions. Therefore, I want to tell the petitioners that this petition is also important as a way to throw us back into discussion and to open our eyes to the matter again, mainly to the practical component. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u172	Mrs Mariana Mortágua signed up to intervene and the Left Block still has time, although not as much as the one registered in the computer panel. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would not sign up - but I ask for 5 seconds to respond to the CDS on the use and abuse of the word "irresponsibility". Mrs. Members: The Left Block here presents a draft resolution to solve a concrete problem, to demand the application of a law that has existed almost a decade ago. We must seriously review our concepts of irresponsibility, because it seems to us that it is irresponsible to maintain a country where not all people have access to the same spaces in the same way. That, yes, is irresponsible. True, serious, good sense is to want the opposite, i.e. that not one person — not one! — cease to have access to any space in this country in the best, most dignified conditions. It was therefore only to clarify this notion of responsibility and irresponsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u174	With no further inscriptions, I declare the debate on the third item of our agenda closed and we move on to the following point, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 446 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by Maria João Figueira Belchior and others, requesting to the Assembly of the Republic the immediate suspension of the collection of the municipal civil protection fee, and, in general, of Bill No 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the prohibition on the creation of local authorities'fees for general services and for public benefit by amending Law No 53 - E / 2006 of 29 December ( BE ). To present the initiative of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes all petitioners and petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic. The population of Portimão, when confronted with the application of a civil protection rate, revolted and protested. It is a population which, in addition to all government impoverishment measures, is still subject to the maximum rates of taxes and municipal rates. We understand that you have said'sufficient! "and that he went out on the street in protest. Among other measures, he addressed the Assembly of the Republic and it is our collective responsibility to give him an answer. For this reason, the Left Block presents a bill that amends the rate regime and clarifys this issue. There are many doubts as to the compliance of certain rules of the General System of Local Authorities Taxes with the Constitution, with regard to fees intended to finance diffuse activities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the theoretical doubts that exist on this matter. The rate differs from tax because it corresponds to the provision of a specific service. Therefore, the Left Block intended to present this bill, which aims at clarifying this issue from time to time, as well as from our point of view, should also be shaped into the law the areas in which authorities cannot create fees. We are therefore open to the discussion of this important issue with regard to the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, which is precisely a change to the general system of fees. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the various banks, we appeal to the debate on draft legislation and we believe that the Assembly of the Republic can take a position to serve the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this intervention by welcoming the realization of this petition, with more than 4000 signatures, which calls for the suspension of the municipal civil protection fee in the municipality of petition. We also welcome all the citizens who have subscribed to this petition. The petitioners claim various irregularities in the Regulation of the Municipal Civil Protection Tax of the municipality of Portimão. For the CFP, there are three issues we would like to address in this discussion. Firstly, it should be noted that local authorities are entities which have a self-reliance framework, with their own bodies — a collegial executive body, a deliberative body — elected directly by the people. And, according to the Constitution, the authorities are subject to administrative protection, i.e. verification of compliance with the law. The CFP, in respect of the autonomy of the democratic local authority, believes that the Assembly of the Republic should not take part in the decisions taken by the local bodies and, when there are issues of legality, it is up to the competent authorities to decide. Secondly, we reject the perspective underlying the political options of PS, PSD and CDS regarding the model of the financing of the authorities, replacing the participation of state authorities in government taxes with a local tax policy, with local taxes and taxes that are fixed to the populations. This concept contradicts the constitutional principle of fair distribution between public resources, between central and local administration. The financial suffocation to which successive governments have voted the authorities, and greatly aggravated by the current government, pushes them to obtain revenue, based on a local tax. A third aspect, as regards the concrete object of this petition, we reiterate our opposition to the creation of the municipal rate of civil protection, position, indeed, that we assume in the authoric organs of Portimão. The CFP also presented a proposal for a repeal of the regulation which creates the municipal civil protection rate in the City Council of Portimão, because it constitutes another penalty on the population. Finally, I would also like to make a reference to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, which, when it approved the final report of this petition, which I myself was the rapporteur, requested that this request be made known to the General Inspection of Finance and the Directorate-General for Local Authorities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u178	Mr Freitas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this debate we wanted to isolate two questions, on the one hand, the petition on procedures in the creation of a civil protection fee in a particular municipality and, on the other, the bill of the Left Block, which seeks to change what is the regime of the creation of municipal fees. On the petition and its content, what we want to say is that the Assembly of the Republic is not competent to pronounce itself, because, of course, the creation of municipal fees is part of the autonomy of the local power and is therefore in this forum that all assessments, all complaints and the resolution of this problem must be placed. There are places for that and it is not the Assembly of the Republic. As for the bill of the Left Block to change the regime of creating municipal fees, we would like to say that it does not seem to us to be a drag, but it comes to gallop. in fact, if there is a petition to challenge procedures, what is the response of the Left Block? The answer to the Left Block is: let's change the law. We have many reservations, of course, about the moment when the initiative arises, but also about its form, and we want to make it clear that the principle of local autonomy is sacred to the Socialist Party. So it is with the primacy of this principle that we like to say what our reservations are. Law No. 53 / 2006, which creates municipal fees, has strengthened the legal guarantee of the creation of fees, on the one hand because it imposed the repayment of public service to the creation of any fee and on the other because it obliges a municipality to conduct a prior, economic and social-impact study, obliges the municipality to make a regulation and to adopt that regulation in its own bodies. What we have is a law that strengthened what was the legal guarantee for the creation of fees. On the other hand, we believe that this debate must be held in the context of a broader discussion of the Local Finance Act and the system of creating municipal fees. That is, we have an opening to discuss this subject, but we have an opening to look at these issues in a serious and integrated way and looking essentially at three aspects: autonomy of local power, strengthening the powers of the authorities and, at the same time, strengthening municipal funding, because we believe that is the way we should deal with this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u180	Mr Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 subscribers of this petition. This is a request that expresses a legitimate concern for these municips before the approval by the municipality of Portimão of one more fee and one more regulation, which they consider illegal, and which, without prejudice to the separation of power between Parliament and local authorities, is well identified. Its cause is local and the solution must be local. The tax power of local authorities, within which the power to create taxes is inserted, is constitutionally guaranteed. Local authorities have their own assets and finances, which include revenues collected by the use of their services and may have tax powers in cases and in accordance with the law. contrary to what some would like to say, Madam President, the tax power of the authorities does not arise from the fluctuations in the budget transfers nor does it arise from the creation of this or that rate. It stems from the Constitution, the legality and the political responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u182	It is not the power of municipalities to create rates, as the Constitution determines, which justifies the creation by some of illegal rates and regulations. And it is not these illegal rates that should lead to the reduction of the tax power of local authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u183	Mrs. Members, the power to create fees is legally modelled, on the basis of the other constitutional principles, namely tax legality, proportionality, equality, fair distribution of public charges, persecution of public interest, financial balance, legal equivalence and compensation for costs and publicity. But the creation of fees also depends immediately, and to a large extent, on the political judgement of opportunity of those who respond by the municipality, i.e. the responsible for the executive body proposing them and the deliberative body approving them, since taxation plays a key role in the differentiated competitiveness between regions, cities and municipalities, in attracting people and investments, in economic development, in tourism, in trade and in job creation and wealth. Actually, sir. Members, municipal rates necessarily have a component associated with the different political and social options adopted by each municipality. And it is not by chance that, according to information provided by the media, only the city of Lisbon has about 200 rates in force, associated with administrative activity, heritage, use of the public space—which affect people's lives daily and, on average, have a considerable weight in the monthly family economy—of which the civil protection rate associated with the heritage to which the IMI adds, or also the new tourist rate on sleeping and arrivals are highlighted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u184	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u185	It is not by chance that Portimão and Lisboa are of the few municipalities that apply this municipal rate. But, Madam President, the political, legal and judicial union of the procedure for the approval of fees, which is always admissible in a state of democratic law, should not be confused to the point of eliminating the local tax power. This power must be clarified and improved, but it should not be, without further and without reflection, poorly reduced. from there we ask the Left Block to bring the bill down to the committee for a period of 15 days, because it is a matter that involves a very careful analysis, in order to reflect on it, so that it does not undermine the autonomy of the local power but also take into account the interests of consumers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u186	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not up to us, as has already been mentioned, to make a legal judgment on this petition and, therefore, on the actual rate. from this point of view, what is above the table is related to the following: in abstract, there must be a set of neurotic aspects that have to be ensured, i.e. the forecast and collection of a municipal civil protection rate, or any other rate, must obey a bilateral principle, which presupposes a consideration to which the recipient is obliged. Therefore, in this particular case, what can be said is that the judicial procedure is open and, in addition to that way, the issues that are related to administrative protection. in the background, the Assembly of the Republic necessarily has to respond to the petitioners regarding the set of rights and obligations to which they are bound, not making an assessment on the trial of opportunity and on the free and conscious choice, by the Municipality of Portimão, of having this fee applied, because it has no competence to do so. Therefore, we do not, of course, pronounce ourselves on the legality or illegality of this rate, what we reject is the circumstance of, the tow of this political element, the Communist Party of Portugal to point out the renewal of these issues to the Government. This is not a matter that depends on the government or on budgetary transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u188	It must be another myth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u189	What is happening here—and in the case of the Portimão City Hall is particularly recognized—is that there has been a very difficult and delicate management, a management that has been funneled over the past few years and, as a result, it is necessary to start some financial recovery. In addition, the President of the City Council of Portimão himself pointed out the fact that the Government's full cooperation is involved, either with regard to the Local Economy Support Programme ( PAEL ), or with regard to the Municipal Support Fund. To want, in this way, the Communist Party has always to renew any responsibility for the Government is, in our view, nothing more than political and ideological blindness and not a mere willingness to point out that these decisions stem from the freedom of the positions of the City Council of Portimão. With regard to the legislative initiative of the Left Block, we believe that there are obviously controversial aspects — and your speech, Mrs Helena Pinto, highlights this aspect, which must be addressed and which require further consideration on this matter. We recognise that it was the CDS-PP's call to the committee for the 15-day deadline, and can listen to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, to have a structured, integrated vision, a vision that strengthens citizens' guarantees and, at the same time, ensures that there are no abuses, from this point of view. This is because, basically, what we want, in a way, is an important clarification, because it is that clarification that can strengthen these guarantees of citizens, but at the same time can also ensure that the objectives of this House are achieved. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u190	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I want to say that we oppose this rate, and we oppose the municipal rate of civil protection in Portimão as we generally oppose the rates that are created, particularly those of civil protection, in order to increase the burden on populations. This is a path that has to be discussed here, although the PSD wants to reject it, and we fully understand why. The truth is that successive governments—and here responsibilities must be shared between PS, PSD and CDS-PP—have reduced the participation of authorities in public resources. This is the truth! They pushed the authorities into a financing model based on local taxation, and what is the consequence? Reducing populations. And it is this conceptual model that we cannot follow, because obviously introduced numerous difficulties to the municipalities. We must not forget the budget cuts in each budget and we must not forget the political options of this government that have sent and pushed the authorities to solutions that effectively only penalize citizens, even more at a time of extreme difficulties for families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u192	Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, which we consider to be an important debate, we wanted to make it clear only two or three questions. Using the words of Mr. Miguel Freitas, we will isolate a few questions here. The first problem concerns the autonomy of local power. The autonomy of local power has never been at stake here. In fact, in my initial speech, I asked to state that, apart from respecting, of course, the autonomy of the local power, the Assembly of the Republic should not avoid what more than 4000 citizens and citizens brought us through a petition and should respond with responsibility. And what is our responsibility? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to act on what we are concerned about, it is to act on the general system of fees, which is the competence of this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have a concrete problem in a municipality, in this case of Portimão, where the population left the street. What does the Assembly of the Republic do? He says: "Ah, we cannot pronounce ourselves." No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility to speak to us on what we are concerned about, not posing, at least, the autonomy of the local power, because we are also not critical of what is done in the municipalities or, then, even better, Mrs. Members, we cannot be critical in municipalities and acrytics in other municipalities. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u194	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u195	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that the autonomy of the local power is not at issue here. from our point of view, it is necessary to change the general system of charges, which has, in fact, been contested, and as we all know. That's why it's not about galloping, ladies. Socialist Party Members, look who's talking! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Freitas.]] No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of finding the right answer. Having said this, because I do not have more time, we are certainly open to suggestion. We have already submitted the request for the bill to be dropped to its committee, without a vote, and we hope that the debate in the specialty will be able to find the right solution to this problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u196	The joint debate on petition No 446 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and draft law No 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) of the BE, corresponding to the fourth item on our agenda, we will interrupt to proceed with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Before I give the floor to Mr Raúl de Almeida, Secretary, to make the announcement of an initiative which has, in the meantime, reached the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 1527 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures relating to the application of the transitional provisions of the Staff Regulations for the Teaching of Political Higher Education ( PSD and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, I would ask the services to prepare the electronic system for Mr. Members may register. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 200 presences, to which 5 ( MPs Jorge Machado, PCP, Isabel Alves Moreira, PS, Adam Silva and Joana Barata Lopes, PSD, and Artur Rêgo, CDS-PP ), performing 205 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 289 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of former MP Américo Saltero ( PS ), which Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro, will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with obvious regret that we became aware of the death last day of Américo Albino da Silva Saltero, Member of the Electoral Circle of Setúbal in the III, IV and VI Legislatures. Américo Saltero, an insurance professional, developed his activity in the city of Setúbal where he was estimated and known, having promoted intense association and political activity in defense of the causes he believed in. He was the leader of the Victory Soccer Club. From 1981 to 1987 he was President of the Setúbal District Federation of the Socialist Party and a member of the Socialist Party, having worked towards valuing and defending the populations of the Setúbal district. His contribution to the defence of democracy and freedom is recognized by all who have shared his life course with him. The self-denial with which he embraced the causes in which he believed and his sense of surrender remain as a heritage of his contribution to our democratic life. The Assembly of the Republic pays its sincere tribute to the former Parliamentary Américo Saltero and presents its deepest condolences to family and friends.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Bureau is associated with the vote of regret and welcomes the families present. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 31 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us vote on draft deliberation No 30 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The Assembly of the Republic reinforces its commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for promoting social cohesion, poverty eradication and combating inequalities ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The following is draft resolution No 1517 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to promote the rights of the elderly and to protect them in respect of forms of violence, loneliness and abuse(BE). As you all know, the CDS-PP requested that we vote separately on point 2 and the rest together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u201	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u202	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u203	Madam President, the Socialist Party also calls for a point vote, but in a different way. That is, paragraphs 1 and 5 separately and the rest may be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u204	We shall therefore vote separately on points 1, 2 and 5 and the remaining points together. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are voting together now on points 3, 4 and 6. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1516 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes better accessibility on public roads and in buildings and equipment for collective use ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] For draft law No 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the prohibition on the creation of local authorities fees for general services and for diffuse benefit by amending Law No 53 - E / 2006 of 29 December ( BE ), the Left Block made a request for the draft law to be brought down to the Commission without a vote for a period of 15 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As a result of the vote, Bill No. 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u207	Madam President, on the last vote, I asked you to make the following correction: the bill does not go down to 5. the Commission, the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, but 11. the Commission, the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u208	Sir, you're clear. Bill No. 977 / XII ( 4. ( a ) down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1457 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment to mechanisms for affecting the eligible area of buckets for access to Community aid ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1494 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reassess decisions on the characterization of the cultural occupation of soils ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1431 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Emergency recovery of the Buçaco Forest and its appreciation for recognition as World Heritage Site ( BE ) ( replaced text within the Commission ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1486 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent intervention in the recovery and recovery of the Buçaco Forest and its architectural heritage in view of its recognition as the World Heritage Site of Humanity ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1510 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the intensification and continuation of the recovery and recovery of the National Forest of Buçaco and its heritage with a view to its future recognition as a World Heritage Site of UNESCO ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u209	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u210	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u211	Madam President, it is to inform the Bureau that, on the last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1480 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a strategy to strengthen the promotion of cultural habits among young people ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We therefore conclude the vote, since some diplomas in the script have not yet been discussed. We will continue our agenda with the debate of petition No 458 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Presented by the Student Movement Just on the street by the Public School, against the cuts in education registered in the State Budget for 2015, which means the destruction of the public school, together with draft resolution No 1515 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government to value public school as a pillar of the democratic regime ( CFP ). Each parliamentary group has 3 minutes. To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the students who have subscribed to this petition and who have stimulated the collection of signatures in hundreds of schools in the country, transforming this initiative into an important campaign to defend the public school. It alerts the petition for the cuts of the State budget for 2015 and for the consequences it has on the pedagogical quality and on the conditions of operation of the public school. Between 2011 and 2015, the PSD/CDS Government cut more than EUR 2000 million in non-higher education only and this reduction in public investment has a tremendous impact on the learning and working conditions of public school professionals. It is important to note that these cuts were translated at the end of the school pass 4 /NP 18, in the increase in the number of students per class, in the constitution of more mega-groups, in the dismissal of 20,000 hired teachers who were out of the system. This has necessarily resulted in greater difficulties in the operation of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u214	Madam Member, I interrupt to say that there is a lot of noise in the Chamber. It's hard to hear Mrs Rita Rato. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u215	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that, in view of this situation, the CFP today brings to the proposed discussion in the sense of the importance of taking investment in public school as a national priority, fulfilling what is foreseen in the Constitution and the Basic Law of the Education System. We have come forward with proposals because we understand that the time is for each one to say what comes and, on the part of the CFP, the commitment we assume is to ensure the conditions of proper functioning to the public school, free, quality and for all, the replacement of the school pass, the strengthening of the social action of the school, the reduction of the number of students per shift, the need for the completion of the works that were suspended by the School Park, the guarantee of the number of teachers and employees who respond to the permanent needs of the schools and the guarantee of the free educational manuals. from the PCP side, we clearly assume what we believe are fundamental conditions for the functioning of public school. Let us hope that the parties here today also take their perspective and say whether or not they follow the PCP on this path. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he re-elected Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u216	For an intervention by the PS, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Congratulation, on behalf of the Socialist Party, the Student Movement Just, on the street by the Public School and all over 7000 petitioners, subscribers of the petition in appreciation, which allows us, once again, in the Assembly of the Republic, to discuss the state and defense of the public school. The matter entered in this petition shall be of all appropriate and relevant. It is never too much to remember how today, sadly, the public school in Portugal, after hard blows to disqualify and lower, also increasing the inequalities of opportunities in access to education. The policies of budget cuts in education—only in the last State budget were EUR 700 million—, the obstacles to the placement of teachers, the lack of non-teaching staff by all schools and the constant recourse to employment-inclusion contracts, the lack of teachers and non-teachers in special education, the cut in special education grants, the failure to carry out works in schools, the infamous CAP (Evaluation of Skills ), the delays in financing, among others, are the evils with which this government has given public school over the past four years. The last of the evils was the end of student access programs to computers and broadband, the Program e.school, a fundamental milestone in combating inequalities. The consequences were felt, and how they were felt! The retention and withdrawal rates have doubled since 2011; more than 8,000 students have left higher education; adult education is a drop of water in the desert; professional schools, artistic schools and others have been strangled financially; there has been an increase in insecurity in schools; parents, teachers, students, the entire educational community are unanimous in criticism of the policies followed in education; there has been a disregard for the educational system, coupled with incompetence of political and technical nature. These are harmful consequences that lead, among other things, to the present petition. Education for all and for all and quality is an imperative. For the Socialist Party, education today lacks different public policies and alternatives and investment, investment in schools, its professionals, children, young people and adults. Education is an essential foundation for the future of people and the country, a means of promoting social justice and equal opportunities. The education policy carried out over the past four years must make the government and the majority that supports it feel ashamed. The balance sheet is negative for education in our country. The quality of public school was called into question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u218	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to note the importance of this petition in which petitioners are students and therefore the main interests in quality public education. It is customary in the Assembly of the Republic that we receive initiatives from all kinds of organizations to defend their rights as regards the education system, but we rarely discuss student initiatives. Therefore, it is to praise this petition. however, this petition, as well as the initiative of the PCP, has several misconceptions and part of the wrong assumptions. The first is to associate the CDS with the destruction of the public school. You don't get it! [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u220	It's a good joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u221	Since we live in democracy that governance has been ensured in alternation by the parties of the bow of governance. It is to them that not destruction is due, but the achievements of our educational system, both in terms of access to education and in terms of international recognition of its quality. The PCP is certainly not! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u222	That is, if there are those who respect the principle that education is a right for all, free, fair, we are the parties that exercise governmental functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u223	Go to the schools and say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u224	The reality of the last decades and the public system that has been built is proof of this. That is why the petitioners and the PCP live a misunderstanding, celebrate the quality of our system, but accuse the parties of destroying it. These two positions are not compatible. Another misunderstanding shared by the petitioners and the PCP is that of assessing the quality of the education system by the State budget. We have explained many times, but we have resumed the explanation: it is not because the financial investment in education that students learn more and the results improve. Public education policies do not have this magic solution and it is not enough to throw money out of the difficulties to see them solved. It is not an opinion of the CDS bench, it is a constant fact in numerous international reports, such as those of the OECD. The last misunderstanding is that budget cuts are found to apply directly in education. This is not true and, as you know, it was soon denied by the Ministry of Education when discussing the proposal of the State Budget in the Assembly of the Republic, The difference in the 2014 budget implementation for the 2015 forecast is explained, for example, by ADSE — EUR 50 million — and by measures such as terminations of compensation, including other reductions in structural expenditure. In other words, the budget decrease exists, but it is an adjustment rather than a cut in the educational service provided. As for the solutions, and after so many misconceptions, the PCP project proposes a set of measures to value the public school which, of course, do not value it and, in our view, are even wrong solutions: for example, the discount on school passes, even for students of wealthy families, threatening the already fragile sustainability of public transport companies. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Or do you really want to reverse a school aggregation process that started several years ago and went through several governments? basically, he wants to take a step back in much of what has been done and under particularly difficult economic conditions. For all this, it is obvious that we do not follow this initiative and much less recognize the PCP as relevant in the construction of the teaching system we have and we should be proud of. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u225	I thank the honourable Member for her strict compliance with time. For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Isilda Aguincha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today the petition No 458 / XII goes up to this House ( 4. ( a). On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I welcome all those who have joined this petition, believing in the right to citizenship, freedom, which cannot be the dictatorship of some, in democratic life in a country that wants to look to the future with hope, honoring the past and respecting the present. Respecting the present means respecting the effort that all Portuguese have been making and that has been and is being successful. We have successfully fulfilled the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and we must respect the fact that this effort has been, and it is, across our entire society. Despite the obligations we had to fulfill, it was possible to guarantee access to school to all students until the age of 18. In addition, technical and operational assistants have been hired, the number of psychologists has increased and teachers have been linked – they will be more than 4000 at the end of this Legislation. It was also possible to increase the funds for school social action and allow the reassessment of students' needs, so that no student would stay behind. The PERA program (School Food Strengthening Program ) was also a way of overcoming situations of deficiency. Early support measures have been defined so that, as soon as difficulties are detected, the school can intervene. We assumed rigor and excellence as guiding lines, as was assumed to revise the works of the School Park, with EUR million in respect of what had been programmed — to do more with less and to do good, respecting the citizens. The speech of this petition is sick of errors that we all know do not correspond to reality, in addition to the bet on bricks that add nothing to the quality of education that we all defend. The PCP follows the petition. It is the natural consequence of the usual argumentary. We cannot ask our fellow citizens for help in building a viable country and ignore the efforts of all, much less we can let ourselves be poisoned by inflamed speeches that contribute nothing to the future of the younger, the less young, the Portuguese. Nor can we ignore those who don't think about the future, or think about spending, spending, spending. There's a lot of demagogy, a lot of promise, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We're not going back. The Socialist Party wants to go back, we don't. For us, Portugal and the Portuguese are ahead. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u227	Madam Member, the Socialist Party wants to move forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u228	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners of the Estudiantil enough movement, on the street by the Public School. This petition essentially affects budget cuts and disinvestment in public school. over the years of this mandate of the majority PSD / CDS there has been a brutal disinvestment in public school, as brutal as the increase in taxes. This petition also focused on the cuts planned for the 2015 budget, but it is already there. We note its implementation and its continued public de-investment. in the present day, what is important, in relation to the objectives of the petitioners, that we stress — the return of the public school of quality, the appropriate and necessary investment, which is the greatest strategic asset for the country, is to place the words of the Minister of Education of the last days, because he has told us that there will be no more budget cuts in education. It is true that he will no longer make the next budget, but finally, let us try to guess that it would be a sort of intellectual delight to imagine himself as a successor to himself as Minister of Education. The Minister said there would be no more cuts. Not only does he not authorize, because in four years of his term of office he has made much more than EUR 2000 million cuts in education, as we also know that the budget treaty and its compliance require much more to reduce the budget deficit and this necessarily implies more cuts in public investment in education. Therefore, this promise is arid, has no consequence and is a liar in the pre-election period. And yes, the CDS and PSD are linked to the destruction that's happened from public school. Do you want a concrete example? The electoral programme, the guidance lines of the PSD and the CDS-PP. They propose independent colleges and the privatization of public schools. This is destruction of the public school. We understand, at this time and in these circumstances, defending the petition we have received here, organized by students in a very important citizenship exercise, that we must really defend the public school with an adequate investment. Why? Not necessarily invoking continuous demographic breakdown and decrease of students, especially in the first cycle. Surely there is a change and that there is a need to rationalise effective and quality in investment, but this does not mean that much more is cut, as a percentage and impact on educational policies, than what has been the decrease in both the number of students and other types of support, which is supposed to be the public education system. Therefore, it is necessary to return to an investment that is far more than 3% of GDP in order to end this third-world trade mark in which Minister Nuno Crato emphasized public education and investment in Portugal. And, yes, you have to finish this adventure of destruction of public school, which has already reached the summit of wanting to privatize school in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u230	The PCP still has time. Mrs Rita Rato was appointed for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u231	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Who brought nothing again and only brought bricks to justify the unjustifiable was again the PSD and the CDS. in fact, the misunderstanding they want to impose is that the quality of public school does not have to do with public investment. Question : How can fewer students be assured by class and more teachers are hired without public investment? How do the suspended works of the School Park end without public investment? There are schools in this country that have been operating in containers for years because successive governments have made the rehabilitation of schools a business for the private rather than the guarantee of the conditions of study and work of thousands of students and professionals. What answer do you have to give to students in this country who have had classes in containers since they entered school until their departure? What answer do you have to give? That this has nothing to do with investment? Oh, my God! What answer do you have to give to the 20,000 teachers who have been out of school but who are missing there and who have a job done to combat abandonment and failure? What do you have to say? PS, PSD and CDS members who have rejected solutions to guarantee the number of employees in schools? Today, they are employment-inclusion contracts that guarantee the functioning of schools and this is incompatible with the need for quality and appreciation of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u232	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u233	I will finish, Madam President. The gentlemen. Members of the CDS, PS and PSD know, because we still visited the Commission last week, the lack of psychologists and the lack of technicians in schools to work with children with special needs. They know that and they heard it from the mouth of the school communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u234	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u235	The CFP brings proposals because its commitment is to public school. The public school is a pillar of the democratic regime, it was a conquest of the April Revolution and that is why we will continue, like schools, teachers, employees and students in this country, to fight for it. Public school is a condition of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u236	With no further inscriptions, the fifth item on our agenda is completed. We shall continue with the joint assessment of petition No 469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Maia High School, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend the ratios of educational action assistants in schools, of Bill No. 305 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the indefinite recruitment of non-teachers in public schools ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolution No 1511 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The lifting and supply of permanent needs of non-doctoral staff in schools ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I greet the Association of Parents and Education Officers of the Maia School Group for the dynamization of this petition, which allows us to discuss today one of the serious problems of public schools. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, in public school, there is a deep shortage of employees, which means that students are not monitored and that the teaching-learning process is degraded because of the deterioration of the conditions of the functioning of schools. The PSD/CDS Government's response to the lack of operational assistants and technical assistants is the illegal use of precariousness, is the shameful use of employment-inclusion contracts to meet the permanent needs of schools. And there are thousands of workers in this situation, a situation that well reflects the objectives of this government to devalue work, to spread unemployment statistics and to reduce investment in public school at the expense of the rights of those who work. This is a government that is well associated with the degradation of the public school, which is well associated with the exploitation to which these workers are subjected and who lives well with the life of misery that it imposes upon them. This is a government which is well associated with the instability it creates in schools, using employment-inclusion contracts, and which is well associated with the instability it creates in the lives of these workers. The illegal use of precariousness in public schools, whether with employment-inclusion contracts, either with the hourly regime, the so-called tasks, is another example of this government's policy that deliberately replaces workers with rights for workers without rights. These workers are not performing occasional tasks, they are not in temporary structures and ensuring transitional needs, they are responding to the permanent needs of schools, and the permanent needs of schools must correspond effectively. And that is what the CFP proposes today. It is urgent to put an end to this form of illegal recruitment, it is urgent to end the illegal use of precariousness in order to respond to permanent needs, it is urgent to contract all non-teachers who meet the permanent needs of schools, thereby opening a competitive procedure. The defense of public school is inseparable from the defense of its professionals, their labour and social rights. The CFP is committed to defending the free, quality public school for all. A public school that has all the means and materials to fulfill its role of individual and collective emancipation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u238	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block, I would like to congratulate the Association of Parents of the Maia School Group for the initiative they have taken and for the debate they allow us to do. The Association of Fathers is a little the spokesperson of the whole country, because in the whole country it is known the disability and the lack of support staff in schools, in particular the lack of assistants in the various categories. The current government has been developing a policy that is to 'use' people with employment-inclusion contracts, i.e. unemployed people who are in rotation by schools, not only not giving care to the best criteria and requirements on the quality of people who are not trained in these frameworks of schools, but also not giving the guarantee of future employment for those unemployed who are episodically in schools, in very negative circumstances for themselves and their future objectives. The Left Block intends to address this problem. How? By introducing an initiative to recommend to the Government an amendment and an reversal of this policy, which goes through the following: firstly, to train people with employment-inclusion contracts and others who are precarious in schools; secondly, to create a binding mechanism for all these professionals; thirdly, to ensure an adequate lifting of all permanent needs. It is quite true and unforgettable that all these professionals with employment-inclusion contracts and other precarious titles are supplying permanent needs of the system. Therefore, it is to say no to this new slavery and this new way of responding in public services, because it is undesirable, it is outraged by the rights of any professional, but, above all, it is a disappointment to parents and students. We need qualified people for a set of support tasks in schools, which can bring security, confidence, capacity to help, motivation of a school unit, and not what has happened, which is the definition and degradation, gradually, of the quality of public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who accompany us in the galleries and, at this opportunity, to address the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the High School of Maia, as the first subscriber of this petition, our fair recognition for all the collaboration they have contributed to the process, always presenting itself on the side of the solution and not of the problem. Let me briefly say that in February this year, more precisely on 9 February, the petitioners brought to our reflection — and well — the possibility of amending the legislation establishing the ratios of educational action assistants in schools. But in good rigour, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government was also paying attention and remains attentive to this matter and, a few days later, on 12 February, a new portal was published which amended the formula for calculating the number of operational assistants and technical assistants, with a view, precisely, to strengthening non-teaching staff in schools. This is proof that in this, as in other matters, we have taken a path for everyone and with everyone. It is proof that in this, as in other matters, we share the diagnosis and the solution, a solution that met the expectations of schools, families and authorities, but also a solution that was, in a certain way, at the meeting of the petitioners. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know, but it is always good to remember that, at another time and with another financial framework in the country, the desirable one would be to go further and walk towards the optimal solution. But in the face of the situation we inherited and only now begin to reverse, after four years of enormous sacrifices, no one with good faith can deny that this is a solution and a huge contribution to the resolution of this problem. That is why we are sure that we are on the right track, with the same certainty that this path does not end here, in fact, exactly in line with what petitioners defend. However, it is important to make it clear that, contrary to what the opposition here today has done — and even by the presentation of the initiatives under discussion — it would now bring it into force is not unfair. We know that for those who do not account or ask where the money comes from, the 40 million that this solution entails is little. It's always too little for those who don't count! Open... in fact, the form of the parliamentary left to oppose, in the impossibility of combating the goodness of the proposal, is to invoke that « it is little». But the little that they refer to represents more 124 employees, in office in the schools of Maia, already from the next academic year, making a total of 373 employees, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It may not be great, it is true, but I believe that in school, the difference will be sensitive. It is up to all of us, all of us, without exception, to pay attention to the replacement of these employees, as defined in the door. Finally, Madam President, a word regarding employment-inclusion contracts to say that we know that DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) is working to convert this resource into an absolutely transitional solution, as it is also accompanying the identified needs, at the level of senior technicians, especially psychologists, manifesting itself in the renewal of what is going on well and in improving or extending the number of technicians in other school groups, through the use of the Operational Human Capital Programme. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD can only welcome this initiative of the petitioners, whose concerns deserve a wide internal debate and continue to pay our best attention, and deplore the demagogy added to the foundations of the initiatives presented by the Left Block and the CFP. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u242	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS bench, I comply with the Association of Parents of the Maia High School and all parent associations of the Maia School Group, represented here by FAPEMAIA ( Federation of Associations of Fathers and Educational Officers of the Maia Council ), to whom only turn their backs physically and not in relation to the content they present to us, as we will see. I would like to thank the petition, which entered the Assembly of the Republic and was written at a time when the Government had not yet tabled the amendment to Ordinance No 1049 - A / 2008, and it was therefore very timely to present this petition. Moreover, even after the presentation of this new Ordinance, which updated the ratios of school officials, the petitioners understood that they would continue to ask the Assembly of the Republic for amendments, which shows not only a very concrete interest in the issue but also the obvious need for not everything to be done. By the way, I'd say so, ladies. Members, that everything will never be done, with regard to our education system, which is not only a complex system that requires the placement of many public resources, and therefore also requires enormous attention on the part of the Members of Parliament and on the part of the Government, as on the part of parents, students and teachers. In particular, in relation to this question of employee ratios, what was found was that the previous government had never been able to update the petition, which had become outdated with the process, which, in fact, started to aggregate schools, keeping itself at the door, for example, that the ratio of employees to the generality of schools was the one that occurred in the school headquarters of the group. This was one of the amendments introduced by this government, now saying that what matters for quality, therefore, for the ratio of employees, is what occurs in each of the organizational units of schools. The former Government felt that up to 48 students did not need an operational assistant and that this was corrected in the current gate, ensuring that from 21 students there is the right to put an operational assistant in school. If these amendments are or are not sufficient, I would say that each parliamentary group, every Member, will know for itself. The petitioners submitted their reading to Parliament. at this moment, I think that, above all, what is of interest is to ensure that the port would be fulfilled in general the education system and also in schools of the council of Maia. That is why, of course, this bench, these Members, but also the government, will fight, because what this government has already done in this regard was because, contrary to what the opposition here meant, in particular the Communist Party and the Left Block, this government has decided to invest more in education. [[PCP protests.]] Only the application of this Ordinance results in an increase of EUR 40 million in employees in schools. It does not mean that this increase is a waste, but it is certainly a financial effort that has been made, ladies and gentlemen. Members — I remember, at a time when the country was paying, as it is still, the debts of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u244	The Socialist Party, when it was all right, when there was money to spend, when the luxury of the School Park, the new airports in Lisbon, the TGVs or the highways, knew well that where it saved it was in schools. Our attitude is slightly different, Madam President, and we thank FAPEMAIA for this petition. It has proved to be a huge interlocutor of the CDS Members elected by the electoral circle of Porto, and I hope that it will continue, because it is with petitions and attitudes that we will know that we are increasingly monitoring the work of the government and contributing to making the service provided, in this case in education, even better. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u245	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Maia School Group, the first signatories of this petition now under discussion. The blind cuts policies of this government have led to a reduction in the number of workers in the Public Administration, which has led schools to achieve levels of scarce human resources that call into question the quality of their functioning. The majority of PSD/CDS told us that the government published a new portfolio last February with nine ratios for non-teachers. It's true. But most of them did not say that there were no more operational assistants in schools, and even the ratios of the previous portal continue to be met. This government has been publishing a new portal for three years but continues to fail to meet the ratios of the previous portal. Today, reality is far more distant than what is legally planned. The deterioration of the stability of the operating assistants body conditions the performance of the school, and the Government systematically resorts to employment-inclusion contracts and part-time contracts to meet permanent needs. This situation does not ensure the continuity of these workers or adequate preparation for the performance of their duties. The use of these employment-insertion contracts is an artificial way of reducing unemployment statistics and restricting the number of employees with indefinite contracts in the Public Administration. However, returning to the Portaria, note that in the replies given to the Assembly, the CONFAP (National Confederation of Associations of Parents ) continues to understand that Portaria No. 29 / 2015, published last February, does not resolve the situation; the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has not been heard on this matter; the National Association of School Leaders continues to believe that there are not enough operational assistants in schools; the School Council says that the Ministry of Education has ignored the proposals of this entity and continues to say that there are no operational assistants in quantity and quality and that the ratio is inadequate. The Minister of Finance shall provide the Minister of Education with more detailed information on this matter, but the Ministry of Education has not been able to respond to this House, in an attitude which is absolutely disrespectful to Members and Parliament. Mrs Emília Santos, EUR 40 million for more operational assistants? Oh, my God! But how is it possible if this year's budget has reduced EUR 700 million in education? Oh, my God! Therefore, when directors, education managers and authorities point out with particular concern the lack of operational assistants to ensure the quality of safety, support for students and surveillance of school spaces, this has—and we all know — implications for increasing indiscipline and violence in schools, but the lack of support for students with special educational needs is absolutely shocking. The majority know that this is an absolutely inconvenient truth and therefore did not enable the draft resolution of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the lifting of resources from employment-inclusion contracts. The policies of de-investment in public school conducted by the current government, including cuts in human resources, have contributed to jeopardizing the quality of the public education service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u247	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u248	I conclude, Madam President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the way must be different, this path will have to be done under the leadership of the Socialist Party and it will ensure that public officials are valued in the performance of their duties in the Public Administration. It is urgent to ensure the necessary resources and the stability of jobs in order to provide adequate training and to promote the quality of the tasks to be performed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u249	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also want to begin by welcoming the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Maia High School, which is represented here and which subscribes to this petition that we are now discussing in the Assembly of the Republic, which is essentially related to the lack of educational action assistants or operational assistants. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening very carefully to what has been said here — and not only others, when, in other circumstances, we have already discussed about education — and I see that we have a deep problem here. It is that the majority PSD / CDS understands education and all the expenses that are made in education as a expenditure that the country has, while we consider that these expenses that are made with education are an investment that the country makes in its future in its present and with a view to development. Now, with these parameters of such distant understanding, spending/investment, we cannot have the same view of education. That is why, in the previous debate, the CDS and the PSD have come to tell us that this thing of decreasing funding, investment, does not interfere with the quality of education. It interferes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u251	I didn't hear anyone say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u252	You say it does not interfere because you have a very short ambition, in the struggle for quality, in the formation of quality of teaching. And, as this ambition is very short, they also seek to shorten investment and financing in relation to Portuguese public school. This is very sad, because the lack is not money, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is because we know — we see here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we have discussed so much this and the Portuguese are already agreed on the matter — that there is money in the country, but it is poorly distributed, is poorly channelled. Instead of going so far into the financial system, it could come a little bit to the teaching system, which did nothing wrong. Instead of cutting down on the social functions of the State, which are of great interest to the Portuguese and to the development of the country, you used to give both the banks, the financial system and the large economic groups. Only with the tax benefits that you give these great groups, only look at what they were already able to finance at the level of the education system! And then, of course, we have this specific problem, which is the lack of security in the schools themselves and the follow-up that it is necessary to give to our children and our young people, especially with teaching staff, but also with non-teaching staff, which is fundamental in schools. Schools don't work without the entire educational community team working. Therefore, they are also important multidisciplinary teams, so we have brought here the problem of the need for more psychologists in schools, of more operational assistants, of not disqualification of schools with the exit of so many teachers. You just think of increasing the number of students by class and making everything else worse all around. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not right! It's not right, and we actually need another view in our schools. Then the gentlemen. Members come here to say the following: 'Oh, but we have already changed the door, the ratio has already changed'. And I ask, but are you guys trying to fool who? Oh, my God! If we're talking about high school today, you're talking about 1. The cycle! You have a highly demagogic speech, and it can't be! We must speak truly and seriously: they have not strictly changed anything! They continue to exacerbate fundamental resources in schools, including operational assistants, and cannot be! You can't come here saying you've changed the ratio, because you haven't changed! Finally, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u253	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u254	...I just want to say that this question is confusing, that it has already been discussed here so much by other Mrs. Members, of employment-inclusion contracts, when we are talking about people who have to qualify for this and perform permanent functions. And the connection of these people to the children and young people in our schools is also necessarily important. But, Madam President, in fact, our view of teaching is very, very different: for us, it is investment, for you, unfortunately, it is expenditure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u255	For a second speech, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we had here sought to be developed by the parties on the right in the sense that there was a change in the door office and that today would be solved the problems of the placement of operational assistants and technical assistants, and this is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u257	Yeah, no! It's just demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u258	All over the country, we have reference to numerous shortcomings, but since we are here making a debate that is much wider, and regarding the request of the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Maia Schools Grouping, we will ask for the favor of this Association of Fathers to tell us at the beginning of the school year whether the promise that Mr. Members here have done, that all the assistants will be placed, is real or unreal. And at the time, we're going to check this out in the Maia School Group and in the other schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u260	Now, I would like to say the following: the Ministry of Education does not answer us, but Mrs Emília Santos, today, was here spokesperson for DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ), saying that DGE is studying, that employment-inclusion contracts are transitional. But are they transitory since when? From four years to this part? For how many more years? Isn't there an election smell there? What is the commitment that the PSD really wants to make about it? You shouldn't say you're studying! You have no commitment! It didn't bring us anything substantial here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u261	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u262	What we know and what we can point out to an accused finger is that they want to maintain precariousness in schools and, therefore, the parents and teachers in charge of education of the Maia School Group may, eventually, see their table of assistants extended, but they are, as Mrs Emília Santos said, transitory. The proposal of the Left Block goes in the opposite direction: to form and bind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u263	Also for a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the interventions made here, in fact, the situation of the schools of the Maia School Group, which are a concrete example of a situation that occurs in all schools in our country, and which is little spoken, this situation, which exemplifies the reality of the schools of the country, completely those that were the words of the majority. The reality that we are living today in schools in our country is that, in fact, in public schools, there is a lack of employees, there is a lack of teachers, there is a lack of special education teachers, there is a lack of technicians, there is a lack of psychologists. And this is a reality that no word, of the government or of the majority, can disguise. In fact, it is also a reality that results from the political options of this government, and from previous governments, of cuts in education and deliberate degradation of public school and its principles. It should be noted that, as regards the door which has been discussed here, this port would in fact relate to 1. the cycle and stop the 2. the cycle, leaves out the secondary, does not respond to those that were the situations and concerns of the parents of the Maia School Group. It is also important to mention one more thing: this government did works in secondary schools, increasing, in many cases, to double, its physical space, but at no time did the updating of the ratio or the hiring of more employees to correspond to this increase in physical space. So where is the PSD/CDS government's commitment to improving public school conditions? Oh, my God! As far as employment and integration contracts are concerned, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say this: the commitment to analyse the transitory nature of employment-insertion contracts has been mentioned here, but for us there is something very clear, that what is needed is to end employment-insertion contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u266	... what is needed is to hire, with effective bonding, the employees that public schools need.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u267	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u268	This is clear! And if that is your commitment, then the majority has the possibility to vote on the proposal of the CFP in this matter, because, if they do not vote in favour of it, what is clear is that the commitment of the PSD and the CDS is precariously, with exploitation and also with work without rights. In fact, the commitment of the CFP, as stated in our proposal, is with the work with rights, with the defense of public school workers, their employees and their teachers, and with the public school as a pillar of the democratic regime. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u269	Mrs. Members, the joint assessment of petition No 469 / XII is concluded ( 4. ( a ), of Bill No 305 / XII ( 2. ( a ), in general and draft resolution No 1511 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). We shall proceed to the last point of our agenda, which concerns the assessment of petition No 466 / XII ( 4. (a) — Submitted by Rui Martins and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the reopening of the Commission of Inquiry on the "Square Case" — Open Letter on the archiving of submarine proceedings. For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group would like to begin this debate by complimenting the petitioners. This petition contains, in fact, two separate applications: the first derives from the dissatisfaction with the final decision of a criminal investigation, calling for the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic — a legislative intervention — so that the Public Prosecutor may exercise the criminal protection that is committed to it; the second is, in accordance with the title which the President has just stated, within the meaning of the reopening of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Military Equipment Procurement Programmes. Starting with this last request, the admission note which was endorsed in the report voted on 1. the Commission has decided by the preliminary referral, since the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations is absolutely clear and a parliamentary commission of inquiry cannot be reopened in a legislature in which it has already worked, unless there are new facts. Well, there's no new fact. Therefore, we remain a request for legislative intervention, accompanied by such discontent of the petitioners with a decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is the only accurate, let us say, take advantage of this petition. The PSD Parliamentary Group wishes to stress the following fact: the Assembly of the Republic has done, either in this Parliament or in the previous one, a remarkable work on corruption legislation. There was a possible committee that worked hard, and with results, a set of legislative proposals on the subject of corruption and, already in this legislature, there was also a working group that made amendments to the Criminal Code on corruption, which were approved unanimously. The Assembly of the Republic, on the subject of this question concerning the programme for the acquisition of military equipment, had a parliamentary committee of inquiry which worked, which made a report which was, in fact, quite criticised, but we cannot but conclude that all the information that has come to the public after this report has been drawn up, comes, quite coincidentally, with those that were the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry. The PSD Parliamentary Group also wishes to stress here, so that no doubts remain, the following: We will not be ruling on any judicial decision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u271	Does that also apply to Camarte? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u272	... on any decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, nor at the door of any public or private institution. We didn't and we won't! We respect the principle of the separation of powers — it is not for Parliament to monitor the performance of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a concrete decision — and in this sense we believe that this initiative of the petitioners, whom we welcome again, does not have the minimum requirements for the approval of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u273	Mr José Magalhães spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to greet the petitioners and thank them. We too are and will be next to the free debate and the search for the truth, legitimately, on this case of submarines. And in this perspective, I have news to give you. in the context of the survey to BES / GES, the PGR ( Attorney-General's Office of the Republic ) transmitted to Parliament thousands of pages of parts of the so-called "submarine process ". I had the opportunity to search these pages, thousands of them, and I would like to share the conclusion publicly now. And the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is from which years we have all been forced to speak of what we did not know; the essentials were tied to us, to the press, to the courts, except, of course, to the secret bearers. The investigation archive, with the exception of the documents which, however, have been summarised, is now in the possession of the Republic Assembly and public scrutiny must be opened. We cannot, for example, reconstitute successive versions of the contracts here. Fortunately, the Public Prosecutor's Office, as they document these cars, has managed to reconstruct the history of these clauses and is a truly pornographic story. The secret of justice, the closed mouth to the military and...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u275	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the terms used in this Parliament. Responsibility is individual, but it is also collective.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u276	With regard to the politically pornographic nature of the material, Madam President? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]] Fortunately, I have found that this work has been well done by the Public Prosecutor's Office, thanks mainly to the seizures and listening, which are closed means to the Assembly of the Republic. in these weeks, I have read and reread documents, which have also been read by the judges, and which indicate serious wrongful indications, such as the violation of principles of administrative law, including the principles of competition, stability, intangibility of proposals, transparency. I have seen evidence that a contract other than the contract awarded by Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 183/2003 has been concluded and that the mandate conferred by the Council of Ministers has been violated and exceeded. There are documents that prove that PRAS ( Programme for the acquisition of submarines for the Portuguese Navy) have been taken in violation of decisions, in particular as regards benefits, in particular the amount of 23 million that the State paid instead of the supplier, and there was a bank pseudo-election that violated rules and was manifestly hammered in favour of BES. The submarine awarded in 2003, Ms. President and Mrs. Members, it was one, the submarine purchased in 2004 was another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u277	Better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u278	... with degraded characteristics in superior order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u279	It was better for the same price!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u280	It would be great if we could get a Ferrari, Mrs. Monica Ferro. [[PSD protests.]] The Court of Auditors and the STA have been prevented from examining the evidence of the malabarisms on the purchase of a submarine, 204, as everyone can read on the Navy website, which honestly does not lie, unlike others. Reading the cars also creates enormous perplexity — and with this end, Madam President — firstly, as regards the failure of the public control means: they were deceived, STA and the Court of Auditors, and they were unable to carry out their mission. Then, as regards the criteria that guided the action of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney-General of the Republic has long announced that the case should be studied, should be the subject of a case study, and we believe you are right. From the eyes placed in the future, it is necessary to identify what made it impossible to ascertain, in addition to any doubt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u281	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u282	...so many illegal, including the money route, except, of course, who is the sixth man and what is behind Felltree Fund. But perhaps one day it is known, as we have known, days ago, Madam President, that such hot talks—I do not say pornographic—in St Bernard's Street, where the Holy Spirit Group discussed its millions, received « to the palate» from these submarines. One day you'll know! We trust that justice will, of course, be done what citizens have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u283	Yes, but the honourable Member will now have to conclude, because he has already exceeded his time widely.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u284	And I conclude, Madam President, thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u285	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen here a brief preview of what will surely be the presentation of the book by Mr José Magalhães, already announced. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Without prejudice to this pre-announcement and the advance, we shall wait, Mr President, just as we have seen, over six months, your various interventions in this Parliament, for something new, which has not actually happened here today. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But I wanted to go directly to the petition which is the subject of this debate to say that, in fact, the CDS does not follow its content for three very simple reasons. It is that this petition has two errors and one omission concerning essential assumptions, namely: error in the recipient, error in the object and omission in the role that Parliament has already played in this legislative session. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u287	First of all, Mrs President, there is a mistake in the addressee, because what is really intended is to use this petition to recommend a certain behaviour to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney-General of the Republic and not to Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u289	It refers to an addressee who has no competence from the point of view of criminal action, who, taking out rare exceptions, as we have heard here, does not even want to have these powers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u290	And if the problem is legislative, as it is also said, it is clear from the very text of the petition that does not identify what needs to be improved, what needs to be corrected and improved is not said what is the cause of the entropies of research. Mr President, secondly, by being misled in the recipient, he also makes an error in the object, by not respecting, as Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said, an elementary principle of the rule of law, the principle of the separation of powers. It is not for Parliament to request the opening or reopening of any judicial proceedings — I repeat, Mr José Magalhães, of any judicial proceedings. Once again, politics, what is politics and justice, what is justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u291	It is not up to the Assembly of the Republic to monitor or even to decide on judicial decisions. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] We did the polling that was possible and we did a very deep polling, as is recognized by all the benches. Mr President, thirdly, there is also an omission in forgetting the work done, even at this legislative session, by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into 11 military programmes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u292	Exactly because we don't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u293	You didn't let me investigate how it should be!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u294	I repeat, 11 military programmes, and not just the one Mr. José Magalhães wanted to say here. It was a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry that held more than 100 days, which held more than 60 meetings, with the work of all parliamentary groups, which heard all the military leaders, all the Defence Ministers, all the ministers that the parliamentary groups wanted to hear, all the presidents of the Standing Committee on Counterparties and even two former Prime Ministers. [[PCP and BE protests.]] No political decision-maker, current or old, was to hear, no question was left to ask.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u295	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u296	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that it was a committee of inquiry that never wanted to confuse itself, and I knew whenever it did not confuse itself with any criminal investigation body. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u297	Madam President, in justice you must respect its functioning and its rules...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u298	As in Comrade! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u299	...and in politics it's not worth everything! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u300	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by welcoming the petitioners, the more than 10 000 people who have signed this petition and who warn, in the case of submarines, of two fundamental issues, being the first of the forum of justice, concerning the filing by the Attorney-General of the Republic, which, of course, is not the matter of justice, but the petitioners also alert and ask for the reopening of the Committee of Inquiry. However, on this matter of submarines, we must say that the Committee of Inquiry also basically has a political scrutiny and PSD and CDS-PP, which have just intervened, excused themselves and apologized for merely formal questions, claiming that there are no new matters. We want here, for the memory of who hears us and the PSD and CDS-PP benches, to remember the successive committees of inquiry in the case of Camarate — already 10 committees of inquiry — in which there is no new matter but PSD and CDS-PP continue to insist on successive committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u302	Indeed! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u303	However, this proves that there are fact-finding committees that can be repeated, because not all the facts have been ascertained. The truth is that PSD / CDS-PP runs away from the commission of inquiry in case of submarines such as « the devil flees the cross ». And you get it! It is that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which was actually carried out because of the PSD and the CDS-PP, was a fraud and a fraud. PSD and CDS, with the clear aim of releasing political responsibilities from successive governments, prevented the discovery of truth and presented a prefabricated report, which has no credibility or seriousness... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You don't have any credibility or seriousness and shame these same benches! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u304	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u305	PSD and CDS-PP have completed the work of this Committee of Inquiry without having arrived at this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry all the documents requested...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u306	But now they're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u307	... and without all the statements being transcribed to the said works. For the CFP, this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission is a mistake, which has not come to an end and has not met its objective! in fact, for the PCP it was clear that PSD and CDS wanted, yes, to clear up the matter as soon as possible. Therefore, they held the hearings to run; they did not wait for the documents requested; they prevented the realization of new trials, basically, they fled to the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u308	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u309	It was to establish a number of facts, and the PSD and CDS-PP did not comment on this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u310	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u311	... such as the clearance of the concrete responsibilities for the poor execution of the counterparties, and there are hundreds of millions of euros of damage to the State whose leaders have been able to ascertain. PSD and CDS did not allow the hearing of Dr. Paulo Nuncio; the current State Secretary for Tax Affairs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u312	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u313	... that it was, as Steyer's lawyer, that made the PANDURs, directly involved in the elaboration and signature of false counterparties...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u314	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u315	... that could have harmed the State, in large millions of euros, was not heard because PSD and CDS-PP prevented this same hearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u316	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u317	The PCP required, PSD and CDS-PP prevented the hearing of Dr. Paulo Nuncio,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u318	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u319	... directly involved in false counterparties that read the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u320	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u321	False? Why? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u322	It was to be clarified, because they wanted PSD and CDS, the issue of the cloudy bank auction in which the consortium of BES, although losing in the initial phase, ended up winning in a later phase. The legality was not ascertained, or even questioned, the transparency of the submarine contest, knowing the majority PSD / CDS-PP that the German competitor changed the model, in the middle of the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u323	Sir, you're going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u324	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that the abrupt end of the Committee of Inquiry, by the PSD and CDS-PP, prevented the hearing of Jürgen Adolff, the former Honorary Consul of Portugal in Munich, who was convicted of corruption in Germany. PSD and CDS-PP have prevented your hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u325	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u326	Many questions have to be asked, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD and CDS-PP have used the strength of the majority, who no longer have the Portuguese people here in Parliament to take up this matter. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u327	They know that the rollers of the submarines always come to the top! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u328	For an intervention by BE, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that the Left Block shares the frustration this petition conveys. Whether we want it or not, whether the PSD likes it or not, whether the CDS supports or likes it or not, there is a cloud that persists around this business of buying submarines. And this cloud is legitimately fed by convictions, which we know are real, by active corruption in Germany, by convictions in Greece, which have not been reflected in Portugal. So this exists, it's a fact. It is a cloud powered by committees of inquiry that have been bleaching of reality and of what happened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u330	All right! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u331	... by committees of inquiry which occurred in a hurry, whose reports do not reflect the whole reality. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira was shouting « false! False! False! », but it is true that the Secretary of State has been rejected by the PSD and the CDS. If this is not true, please ask the PSD to sign up to intervene and deny what we are saying here, because it is not enough to shout « false! False! False! »... It's true! The majority blocked the arrival of Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to a Committee of Inquiry, even though he was involved in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u332	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u333	We can say that the deadline had passed, that it was too late, that it was very early... Well, the majority also determined the deadlines of the Commission of Inquiry...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u334	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u335	...and pressed them enough so that not all the documentation... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] You know very well that the deadlines for the committees of inquiry can be changed with the approval and suggestion of the majority... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u336	...and, therefore, do not use schemes to try, once again, to whiten a process that is political and that deserved to have been voted upon in this Assembly of the Republic! It's been a while. There were also difficulties of investigation, which we see when we read the filing order of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which relate to the system's own structure. The opacity of the system made it very difficult to follow the financial operations mounted through offshore, very complex. It's not up to us—and good! — interfere in the role of the Public Prosecutor, in his decisions and investigations. It is up to us, as legislators, on the one hand, to evaluate politics at the level of committees of inquiry, but also to try to create laws that prevent the Public Prosecutor from investigating a case, whenever he wants to investigate it, to get into this opacity and in this problem of the financial system and these offshores. [[PSD protests.]] This is cross-sectional to several cases! As far as this is concerned, we have already made several legislative proposals, and it is regrettable and with some regret that we have not been accompanied by the remaining benches on the right. We realize that, for a supposed narrative there, then, when it comes to the time of truth, in fact, to investigate in the committees of inquiry, when changing the law that prevents these investigations from going to the end, that is not done. Then these clouds are created, in which political cases are very unclear and create these doubts in society, which are legitimate, as I said. There's nothing to do about it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u337	With no further inscriptions, the debate on this seventh and last item on today's agenda is thus concluded. Before making the announcement of the agenda of the next plenary meeting, I will give the floor to Mr Raúl de Almeida, Secretary, to take account of two legislative initiatives which have, in the meantime, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u338	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and draft resolutions 1528 / XII were admitted ( 4 ). ( a ) — Against tolls at A23 ( PCP ) and 1529 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes funding to specialized artistic music and dance schools in conditions to ensure their stability and quality education ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-12.u339	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 17, at 3 p.m., and the agenda will be filled with a single point, by schedule of the Left Block, which consists in the general debate of draft law No 994 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Social emergency law ( BE ). There will be a grid of its own, if there is a vote at the end of the debate on whether or not the Left Block wishes to exercise this extension. I wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 35 minutes.]]
