ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u1	Mrs. Members, Minister of Justice and Secretary of State, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 887 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspends the application of the General Regulation on Urban Buildings, approved by Decree-Law No 38 382 / 51 of 7 August, and supplementary regulatory provisions in the housing centres designated by the islands of Porto ( PS ) and 888 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November establishing the administrative reorganization of Lisbon ( PSD and PS ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1445 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Annulment of the external invitation to tender which violates Directive 1999 / 70 / EC of the European Commission and the launch of a new binding invitation to tender ( BE) and 1446 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Implementation of the extension of the green line of the port metro from Maia to Trofa until the end of the first half of 2016 ( PCP ) and the proposed law No 320 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the availability and use of electronic public procurement platforms provided for in the Public Contracts Code and transposes Article 29. Directive 2014 / 23 / EU, Article 22. the and Annex IV to Directive 2014 / 24 / EU and Article 40. the and Annex V to Directive 2014 / 25 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda is the general discussion of Bill No 314 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the issue and transmission between Portugal and the other Member States of the European Union of decisions implementing protective measures by transposing Directive 2011 / 99 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Decision. In order to present the proposal for a law, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this bill it is expected that if a victim's protection decision has been issued in criminal proceedings, and in the event that victim is absent from the State in which he or she is running to another Member State, the court of trial shall transmit the protection decision to the other Member State in such a way that the victim continues to be protected. The spectrum of protection decisions is very extensive and includes major or ancillary penalties which, in any case, seek to protect the victim of the convicted person, as is the case with the accessory penalty for the prohibition of contact with the victim, monitored by technical means of distance control; coercion measures aimed at protecting the integrity of the victim; injunctions or rules of conduct in connection with the provisional suspension of the investigation process with the same purpose of protecting the integrity of the victim. Protection decisions shall be considered those which establish the prohibition of entering certain locations, places or defined areas where the protected person resides or is in a visit; the prohibition or restriction of contact in any form, including by telephone, electronic mail or normal, fax or any other means; the prohibition or regulation of approximation to the protected person at least a prescribed distance. Protection decisions may be issued under a criminal procedure, including domestic violence. The victim shall be informed that he may request the issue of a European protection decision and shall be requested by the Member State to which the victim will reside or remain that compliance is monitored. The reception, recognition and enforcement by the national authorities of a European protection decision issued by another Member State is regulated. The competent judicial authority shall also be defined for this purpose. It is essential that the European decision be transmitted directly to the judicial authority for compliance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this diploma is one of the pillars in the structure that supports the protection of victims, which represents a clear and firm purpose of the Government and which is aligned with the concerns and priorities of both the European Union and the United Nations itself, which have taken full and expressed themselves in the Declaration adopted in 13. Congress Crime prevention and criminal justice the solemn commitment to defend human dignity and fundamental rights, particularly those of victims. It's time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we put the victim on the axis of the criminal trial and not just the criminal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u5	For an intervention, Mr Luís Pita Amisexa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims to transpose the Directive of the European Union 2011 / 99 / EU, Parliament and the Council into Portuguese domestic law. This is a proposal which the Government has already put forward and beyond the established deadline.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u7	You've let 11 years pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u8	The proposal for a law is formulated as an almost literal transposition of the European Union Directive, as underlined by the opinion of the Advocates'Order, and it is based on a philosophy which I would say is based on a sort of right of sequelae so it is understood that the effectiveness of a protective measure applied to a particular victim is truly effective only if he can follow and follow the path of travel in the territories of his own victim the subject of the protection measure. The legal systems, in particular our own, have been very little turned to the victims. The status of the victim must become an effective acquisition in our Law. The first right of the victim is undoubtedly the right to information, because this is the door to access to all others. Otherwise, we cannot forget the contexts of secondary victimization, i.e. intimidation and retaliation, and their consequential and appropriate protective measures. The protection of the victim, for example, implies areas of separation and uncontroversy within the courts themselves, which, with the balbodia of accumulation of judgments caused by the entry into operation of the new judicial map, knows for these days a remarkable retreat, caused by the impreparation of the government's action in this matter. Among us, it honors Law No 112 / 2009 of the Government of the Socialist Party, the law of domestic violence, which already enshrines a chapter dedicated to the status of the victim. It is stressed here that the situation of victim resident in another State was already foreseen in Article 23. the, somehow before the letter of Directive 2011 and the bill today under discussion. Since 2011 the Government has announced a legislative measure for the status of the victim, but so far — and we are 50 days away from the constitutionally planned closure of Parliament — nothing! This is another failure of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Francisca Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u10	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us discuss today Bill No 314 / XII ( 4. ( a ) implementing Directive 2011 on the European Protection Decision. what is being cured here, as mentioned in the preamble to the initiative, is to ensure that a protective measure applicable in a given Member State is effective throughout the Union because it accompanies the victim, following his course. The bill we discussed today can be summed up in an expression: protection of the victim. Or rather, protection of the victim throughout the Union, because a Union without borders must be able to build a justice without frontiers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for this reason that the proposed law establishes the mechanisms of issue by the Portuguese State of a European measure of protection which, following the application of a penalty intended to protect the victim of the convicted person or following the application to the defendant of a coercion measure, aims to protect the integrity of the victim or, following the application of injunctions or rules of conduct in connection with the provisional suspension of the proceedings, seeks to ensure the protection of the integrity of the victim. At the same time, it guarantees the recognition and implementation of a European protection decision on national territory. Thus, in our country, it will be competent to issue a European protection decision to the judicial authority that has taken the decision to implement the measure. In turn, a European protection decision issued in another Member State to be implemented in Portugal must be recognised by the generic jurisdiction section of the local authority or, in the event of a breach, by the criminal section of the local authority or by the services of the Public Prosecutor by reference to the court of 1. the instance of the territory of the permanent residence area of the protected person. It seems to us a balanced solution. Mr Luís Pita Amixea, it seemed to me that, in his speech, he referred to everything but to the bill we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u11	It was a great effort!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u12	It was a great effort not to say that you will vote in favour of the proposal under discussion. The honourable Member referred to the opinions which, in substance, instruct this bill, but let me point out that these opinions rightly instructed the bill to guide the Ministry in its way. Therefore, many of the criticisms that are made in these opinions and which Mr has already referred to have been shared and integrated into the bill itself. Mr and Mrs Minister, we will look forward to the opinions which will now be requested by the Assembly of the Republic to the various entities and which we will carefully examine in the field of expertise and which, of course, will no longer give notice of the criticisms it makes here, because they are precisely integrated and overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u13	I wanted to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u14	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. The fact is that, in any case, what this Parliament is debating today is a very important corollary to the principle of mutual recognition and an important instrument for judicial cooperation in criminal matters, because with this bill there is a very important step towards strengthening the protection of victims within the Union, without, however, boiling within the internal and particular framework of the legal system of the various Member States. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u15	Mr António Filipe has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Secretary of State: This is a matter on which we will say a few words, because there is a wide margin of agreement, including on the part of the entities that have expressed their views on this initiative, insofar as it is a matter of transposing a Community directive on judicial cooperation on a subject which is very relevant and which deserves, with regard to the need for the protection of victims of crimes, a wide margin of consensus. This is a matter which, from a legal point of view, may have some complexities in detail, for which, in fact, some of the entities have called attention, but for this it will, of course, serve the debate in the field, and therefore, in relation to the initiative, in general, we have no objection to present, and we will therefore express our general agreement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Cecília Honorio, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u18	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister of Justice: We think that today we could be discussing the transposition of the directive on the status of the victim, and we hope that we will do it in good time. Whether we are discussing more or less whether the law is more or less arguidocentric, it is from the universal recognition that our victims are unprotected, even because they have to form assistants, as we well know, and from the attached judicial costs. I believe that this is an urgent discussion and that perhaps it will be very soon to be brought here. In any case, I would like to note that we follow this bill, which begins by invoking both the Stockholm Programme, and the directive itself transposed by Parliament and the Council of 13 November 2011. As the Minister of Justice has well presented here, the Directive has as its object the protection measures adopted, in accordance with the legislation of one Member State, which may be extended to another, in which a protected person who decides to reside or remain for a certain period of time, in accordance with the law of that State, does not have an obligation to change his system of criminal law. This European measure of European protection or protection is a measure which basically, as the Minister of Justice also says here, relates to the application of a primary or accessory penalty, a measure of coercion or enforcement of injunctions or rules of conduct within the framework of the provisional suspension of the proceedings, and this is a relevant amendment to the original proposal. We give our overall agreement to this bill, recognizing its obvious importance, without prejudice to some technical aspects that can be improved in the specialty. In particular, we understand that with regard to Article 8 ( 4 ). the, the existing formulation still goes a little further than what the Directive itself provides. The hearing of the person causing danger has a provision beyond the Directive which provides for it only with the right to challenge the protection measure if these rights have not been guaranteed during the procedure leading to the adoption of the protection measure. But, in this framework of improvements that can be made in the field of expertise, I would once again say that we endorse the importance of the bill that we are discussing here today and that we are going to approve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u19	I now give the floor to Mrs Teresa Anjinho of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u20	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The aim of the European Union is to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice, whose cornerstone, as we well know, passes through the principle of mutual recognition, with a view, exactly, to building an area of confidence. The citizenship report published by the Commission in 2014 refers precisely to the need to remove all obstacles to the exercise of citizens' rights in order to ensure the realization of their individual rights. We can say that strengthening the rights of victims is part of this approach. As we know, it has also been mentioned here, the European Commission has identified as a strategic priority the protection of victims of crime and the establishment of minimum standards, as well as an integrated and coordinated approach in this area. The common minimum rules undoubtedly contribute to strengthening confidence in the criminal justice systems of all the Member States of the European Union, which will also lead to more effective judicial cooperation in a climate of mutual trust. We are faced with the construction of a true culture of fundamental rights. However, this proposal for a law is undoubtedly another important step in this direction by transposing to the internal legal order the directive on the European Protection Decision. This is the promotion of the effective mutual recognition of protection measures in the Member States, knowing that any protection measure applied to the victim will only be truly effective if it follows the course of the victim itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a fact that it is that of protection to travel with the citizens. This measure is even more relevant if, alongside the objective, we put a number: 75 million. It is estimated that each year about 75 million citizens are victims of crimes in the European Union. More: as Viviane Reding said when presenting this initiative, knowing that 12 million Europeans live in a Member State other than the one in which they were born and that their citizens make about 1000 million trips — 1000 million trips! — within the Community, this new law will meet the freedom of movement and reduce the suffering of these thousands of people. I leave two or three short final notes. First of all, to highlight the importance of this initiative in combating violence against women and, in particular, domestic violence, where I am sure that much of the victims benefiting from this diploma will be involved. I also recall here the investigation by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, which refers precisely to the fact that women are the most conditioned in their movements, given the fear that they have been exposed to situations of violence in the past. Secondly, I point out that there has been an opening and dialogue by the Ministry of Justice, which has incorporated most of the comments from the various opinions delivered. Finally, a note to adhere to a subtle appeal in the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the face of increasing dispersion of European criminal law. Although it is not a proper appeal to the Ministry of Justice, it would indeed be necessary to make a rationalization and codification effort in order to better support the often difficult task of the interpreter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not register any more entries for speeches, so the debate is thus concluded. I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State again, and we would expect the members of the Government to take a look at their bench, as it will be another member of the Government who will be present in the next debate. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the second item on the agenda is the joint debate, in general, on the proposals for lein. 299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suitable for the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists under Act No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and 300 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u22	To present the bills, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Under Law No 2 / 2013 adopted in this Assembly on 10 January, the statutes of orders had to be amended accordingly. It is now up to the Government to present the proposals for laws relating to the Statutes of the Orders of Nutritionists and Psychologists. This process of amending the Statutes was complex, with great effort to hear the various partners, with the aim that everything that was transversal and common should have a consensual reflection. Subjects which are transversal and common to the various Statutes are disciplinary matters, matters relating to professional societies, matters relating to the single counter, among others. In accordance with the system established by Law No 2 / 2013, it was also important to consider in the various Statutes of the Orders the issues relating to the colleges of the various specialities and also to the issues relating to internships. I think it must be noted, in the case of the Statutes of the Order of Nutritionists, and beyond what the framework law imposes, that the Government has intended to accept the proposal that the Order of Nutritionists has made in the sense that the Order of Nutritionists also receives the profession of Dietist. The Statute provides for a convergence regime, which will then be established by regulation. As for the Statutes of the Order of Psychologists, I think there is nothing very particular to be raised. the Government is pleased to note that these two proposals accept a very general consensus of the respective Orders. The Government therefore considers that the two bills will be in a position to be approved by this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u24	For an intervention, Mr António Cardoso, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet all members and representatives of the Orders of Nutritionists and Psychologists attending the sitting. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the appreciation of these bills is of the greatest importance for the professional exercise of thousands of nutritionists and psychologists, as well as of all professionals of these branches in the Community area. These bills conform the statutory rules of orders to a new legal regime resulting from compliance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013. in it are defined rules on the creation, organization and financing of professional public associations and on the access and exercise of professions regulated by professional public associations. To sum up, we are faced with proposals for changing statutory rules, where, among others, it is intended to facilitate access to regulated and duly supervised professions. However, the trip of these proposals, from the secretariat of the respective ministry to the Assembly of the Republic, took about two years, which resulted in significant losses for the professionals of these Orders, so the Socialist Party presents its protest, because it is not justified so much delay, which classifies political laziness. In addition, the Socialist Party considers the lack of any contribution from the Orders to follow up on these proposals of law to be incomprehensible. Two years is a long time. It's enough time to do more and better. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As regards the assessment of Bill No 299 / XII ( 4. (a) with regard to the amendment of the statutes of the Order of Nutritionists, the Socialist Party places some reservations to its general approval, waiting for the contributions of the representatives of nutritionists, so that, in the specialty, this proposal to amend the Statutes can be improved, paying attention to the specificities of nutritionists, including better harmonisation in the process of convergence between nutritionists and dietists, considering the high importance of nutritionists in the health of citizens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the assessment of Bill No 300 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Amendment of the Statutes of the Order of Psychologists, the Socialist Party considers that this diploma meets conditions to merit its approval in general, although it also expects from the contributions coming from the Order of Psychologists so that any improvements can be made in its drafting, in the field of specialty, given the relevant role of psychology services in the quality of life of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u26	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u27	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: I begin by congratulating the representatives of the Orders of Psychologists and Nutritionists here present. I would like to say that both the Order and the other Order have had a long journey to its creation, which corresponded to a longing for the thousands of professionals in these areas that have finally come true. in its genesis and at the time of its installation, both had to overcome problems of inclusion of professionals who had been exercising for many years and that ab initio would not correspond to the requirements for registration in an Order. Both in one order and in another, these problems were well solved, with satisfaction, overcoming obstacles and thus creating harmony in both professional classes. in the specific case discussed here today, the amendment of the Statutes, we have an adaptation to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, and we also have the adjustment to the Community directive on free movement and right of establishment. in the specific case of the Order of Nutritionists, which I would also like to stress here, it was possible to create an Order that incorporated two previously existing careers, that of dietists and that of nutritionists. Thus, with the creation of the Order, no one, no professional, was excluded from the area, whether he was designated as a dietitian or a nutritionist. This was a huge step towards putting an end to a historical division that existed among these professionals. Now, with these amendments, we will take a second step, huge, gigantic, for the career, which is the uniformization of it, under the general designation of nutritionists, keeping the dietists all their professional course and all their rights acquired as dietists. Those who choose not to converge will also retain their appointment as dietists and the same right and equality to register in the Order. Obviously, this was a morbid process. The Government has chosen, in its genesis, instead of examining, in the different ministries, the Statute, Order of Order, the amendments that were necessary to make, it has chosen to establish an interministerial committee and to analyse all 18 or 19 diplomas together, so as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out, to create a uniformity of criteria in what could be uniform. It is obvious that this option caused delays, as well as delays in the Government's option to listen to all interested parties and their Orders, which was also done in this case. So once again, I repeat: if you ask me whether it is preferable to blindly fulfil a deadline or pursue a course that seems more appropriate, even if the deadline is not met, I think that it is preferable for the second hypothesis, and that was the option of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u28	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. I should like to conclude by saying that the proposed legislation under discussion is not intended to be perfect, so they are open, in the field of expertise, to the necessary contributions and amendments, in particular on the question of convergence between nutritionists and dietists and the criteria for this same convergence. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u30	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u31	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: We have discussed two proposals for amendments to the Health-Related Professional Order Statutes and we will then discuss other amendments. The first question that we would like to mention is the need for uniformization and for some treatment to prevent inequalities in what is equal between these Orders and, of course, then, to take into account the specificities of each of them, issues which, from our point of view, have not been sufficiently pondered. With regard to these two proposed amendments to the Statutes of the Order of Nutritionists and the Order of Psychologists, now under discussion, there is a general aspect which we would like to mention, which is common to the two Orders and which is related to the professional stages. With regard to this matter, we have found that, in either case, no reference is made to the need for these professional stages to be paid. We understand that there should be an obligation on the remuneration of these professional stages when their frequency implies the provision of work. in this perspective, we aim to avoid the generalization of some precariousness of work which often occurs with the performance of unpaid work. Our perspective is to safeguard the rights of these trainees, who will be workers in the future. A second point which we would like to mention and which we are concerned about is a very specific issue which is reflected in the amendment of the laws of the Nutritionist Order. We have accompanied and agreed with the fact that this Order covers the professions of nutritionist and dietitist. We believe it was a good decision by the Assembly of the Republic and we agree with the need to evolve and to be able to eliminate any inequality that may still exist in relation to these two professions, because in practice they have quite an equivalent performance. The proposal presented here today proposes the convergence of these two professions in one, called nutritionist. We understand that this process of convergence must avoid any kind of inequality and discrimination between professionals in relation to others and, of course, must take account of the value of professional experience, the value of the course and the professional performance of each individual professional in particular. What do you mean by this? It is because the proposal tells us about convergence, but it does not tell us about the model of convergence, referring to subsequent regulation of that same model. We believe that, in the field of expertise, this should be a matter where we should deepen the debate and, perhaps, in the House of the Republic, until we can take a step further in the implementation of this same model, safeguarding these principles that I have mentioned here, the equality and appreciation of professional experience, and also that of non-discrimination among professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u32	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u33	Finally, with a greeting from the CFP to the honourable Members. Mr Bastonaires and Mrs Bastonaria of the Orders present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u34	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by greeting the representatives and representatives of the various Professional Orders present today and accompanying, I think, this debate is very interesting. This is the first stage of a debate which, from the point of view of the Left Block, is intended to be more in-depth in the field of specialty. It has already been said here that the government has taken many months to draft these bills. We also know that these legislative initiatives are the result of the troika's pressure on the government and have also emerged under some Community directives. The government has taken all these months, according to Mr Artur Rego, to listen to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u36	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u37	But the fact is that, as far as we are aware, the Statutes contained in the bills have some shortcomings and some shortcomings, even Mr. Secretary of State. It is good that we have taken that up from the outset, so that we can get the debate right. We are doing a debate here in general and I hope that, in the field of expertise, in the various committees, in addition to listening to the representatives of the Orders, and not only if we are able to do a job that meets the needs and aspirations of these professionals. Now, in this particular point, two Orders are in question: the Order of Nutritionists and the Order of Psychologists. There will probably be more questions to raise in relation to the Order of Nutritionists. We cannot ignore that there are two petitions in the Assembly of the Republic and either the Portuguese Dietists Association or the Order itself has already sent us several alerts and various suggestions. This order will certainly deserve special attention, in particular with regard to the regulation on the convergence of professions. I think it is a delicate matter, an issue that has been controversial, it is not worth saying that no, and therefore it is necessary to caution at work, in the field of expertise, that this convergence regulation includes all and does not sub-alternize anyone or professions. This should be the general reason for our concern. With regard to psychologists, we will also wait for contributions. I therefore conclude, Mr President, as I began by greeting the representatives of the Orders, encouraging them to participate, now that the debate is about to begin, and voting for the debate in the specialty to be able to produce documents in which everyone sees each other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u38	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u39	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: I would like to begin this speech by congratulating the representatives of the professional public associations and saying that the proposals herein under consideration, which approve the Statutes of the Order of Psychologists and the Order of Nutritionists, aim to follow up on what was the regime approved by Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and establishes a legal regime applicable to all professional public associations, with the aim of promoting self-regulation and administrative decentralization, in compliance with the principles of harmonisation and transparency. Therefore, it is following this general regime that the Government submits these two proposals to the House with a view to conforming and adapting its Statutes to this new regime. It is therefore imperative that the Statutes currently in force be conformed and adapted to the new general regime. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, and speaking of the proposal for a law approving the Statute of the Order of Psychologists, we can say that the regime essentially keeps the statutory provisions already enshrined. The same is true of the proposal which adopts the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists. It should, however, be pointed out, as has already been mentioned, that in the proposal for a law approving the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists it is also established the convergence of the profession of dietitian for the profession of nutritionist. We also want to say here that, on the part of the PSD, there is full availability, and this is a new subject, so that, also in the field of expertise, we will discuss these issues in more detail. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Any of the public associations whose Statutes are under discussion here represent professionals who exercise fundamental functions for citizens. It is therefore important that we value them, that we be careful to meet their specific needs and that we create all the conditions for the realization of the public interest that they carry out. We are therefore convinced that the initiatives under review will update and ensure continuity of the good service, quality service that these professionals provide, both those that integrate the Order of Psychologists, and those that integrate the Order of Nutritionists, which, as has already been mentioned, integrates not only nutritionists but also dietists. Finally, I would like to say that the discussion of these proposals, in the field of expertise, has a total openness on our part. We intend to make this debate with complete dialogue, with the contribution of all, so that, and if possible, we can make improvements and adjustments, because the objective is that we can ensure the public interest that continues these professional public associations. Even to finish, I wanted to leave a very special greeting to all professionals who integrate these Orders for the excellent and important work they do at the service of the community. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u41	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate on the proposals for lein. 297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Dentists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Pharmaceuticals, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 311 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Medical Order, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and 312 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Nurses, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and the opinion of the Order of Nurses. To present the bills, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As with the Statutes of the other Orders, whose discussion we had before, it was intended that all transversal matters should have reflected uniformly in their Statutes. As has been said recently, cross-sectional matters relating to disciplinary issues, professional societies, single counters, etc. they have the same treatment in all these statutes. Everything that is different and specific had specific treatment, so that the autonomy of the Orders had been fully reflected in the respective Statutes. This happened in relation to specialties, in respect of Law No. 2 / 2013, expressing the specialties that each of the Statutes can incorporate. So it also happened about the colleges, with an expression expressed in the law of the colleges that correspond to the various specialties, as well as with the internships. I believe that it may be important to highlight the greatest differences in the previous statutes, starting with the attention being paid to the Statute of the Medical Order. The previous Statute was already 30 years old and it is therefore good to see that it needed a much more substantive review. So it was, and the review of the Order's own organization was very substantive. in the Statutes of the Medical Order it was necessary to reflect the new regime relating to medical care, in particular an amendment that this new medical regime incorporates, which is the fact that autonomy for the exercise of the medical profession is obtained after one year of hospitalization or internship, which will be promoted by the Order of Doctors. These are the amendments which the Government considers to be the most significant in the case of the Medical Order Statute. As for the Statute of the Order of Nurses, it is worth noting that, in the present Statutes, there is no provision for professional protective exercise. After a long period of joint thought by a working group dedicated only to this purpose, it was concluded that the protected professional exercise figure should be removed from the Statutes of the Order of Nurses. On the one hand, it would represent discrimination of Portuguese nurses vis-à-vis the other nurses in the European Union, being a figure that would only prevail in Portugal, meaning that Portuguese nurses, in order to exercise their profession in the other countries of the European Union, should have carried out this exercise protected, unlike the partner nurses in other European countries ; on the other hand, due to operational difficulties in implementing the regime. The existence of 4000 licensed nurses per year would bring a difficulty, which seemed to us to be impossible, to realize the figure of the professional protected exercise. It came to be equationed together with the Order the possibility that only a part of the nurses would be entitled to this exercise. But this would create a second discrimination and the criteria for this group should be established. The Government believes that the best solution in this case is the one that has been proposed to this House, and that, in all other matters, the proposals now being put forward bring together a broad consensus. in this sense, the Government considers that the proposals are in a position to be approved by this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President ( António Filipe ). — Mrs Carla Cruz has applied for clarification, but since the government has no time to respond, I assume that it will then be included in an intervention. You have the floor, first of all, for an intervention, Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u43	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mr as and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say good-bye to you. Staff members and representatives of the Professional Orders present in the galleries. Today we discuss four bills that the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic and that are intended to conform the current Statute of the Orders of Doctors, Dentists, Nurses and Pharmaceuticals to the new legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, approved by Law No. 2/2013 of 10 January 2013. The diplomas in question are part of an even broader set of government initiatives, consisting of 18 legislative proposals, which respect so many other professional public associations, which naturally share the wishes present in those we now appreciate. The objectives of the Government are, as it could only be, to improve the functioning of the regulated professions sector, to promote professional self-regulation and administrative decentralization itself, which those entities legally corporate, and to harmonise legal regimes, of course whenever it makes sense and is enforceable. This legislative process also enables the statutes of professional orders to be compatible with current requirements and with the evolution of society and reality in recent years. These Government initiatives are also concerned about ensuring the proper functioning and activity of those entities, which, it is appropriate to bear in mind, exercise public powers delegated by the State as regards their powers to regulate the access and exercise of the professions to which they respect. It should also be noted that this has been a process which has been involved, with the hearing of interested entities, which have thus been called upon to participate in the elaboration of this legislation, so relevant to the professions concerned. Having approved these Government proposals by the Assembly of the Republic, a legislative procedure will be followed in the specialty which will allow all interested parties to be heard and, consequently, an even better adequacy and detail of the proposals vis-à-vis the achievement of their fundamental objectives. We are therefore, of course, receptive to all the contributions that, without disabling the general objectives and aspects of the proposed laws in the presence, can contribute to the improvement of them and to the better functioning of the professional associations concerned. The PSD Parliamentary Group is deeply committed to helping the current legislative processes operate in a peaceful, timely, balanced and rigorous manner and with a high sense of general interest. This is the momentum of the PSD in the face of such an important process for professional orders, which perform the relevant function of ensuring the self-regulation of qualified professions such as doctors, dentists, nurses or pharmacists. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u44	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u45	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: We are debating a short debate on a particularly hot issue, which has to do with the Staff Regulations of Professional Orders, professional public associations as such recognized by law. I would like to remind you that, in the case of professional public associations, they are legal persons of public law who, as the Secretary of State well knows, aim to protect the public interest of particular importance, that the State cannot regulate directly. They are therefore part of the autonomous administration and deserve particular consideration by the State, in particular the Government. Mr Secretary of State, I cannot begin this intervention without finding the lack of consideration which the Government has given to these professional associations over several months. Having the Government's obligation to submit by April 2013 the proposed statutes and not having done so and in June 2014 having sent a letter to the Prime Minister who did not deserve any reply, the National Council of Professional Orders was obliged to publish an open letter protesting and, simply, to appeal to the Government to comply with the law. Therefore, when the Secretary of State and the Government fail to comply with the law is of some pharisaism — I am sorry for the colloquiality of the expression — now to protest the consideration and respect for the professional orders. Mr Secretary of State, we have not even been able to understand the justification for this delay, not only because of the public reaction of some Orders regarding the becoming of these works, but especially when we confront, among others, the Statute of the Order of Physicians, which does not present any formal structure! This is a set of Article 1 runs. the 161. the, without sections, without articles, is a draft, is a draft which Mr. Secretary of State sends to Parliament, contrary to the formal structure of all other proposals. It is merely the confession of the discrepancy with which you dealt with this matter. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we must not fail to mention this behaviour and to note that, despite the Order of the Nurses having agreed to publish on their official website that the proposal adopted by the Council of Ministers did not serve the interests of the citizens and the profession—it is not limited to saying that it does not serve the interests of the profession, which would obviously be serious, goes further by saying that it does not serve the interests of the citizens—the Secretary of State here, with all the normality, says that everything goes well with regard to this process, in fact, on the back of his colleague Under-Secretary of State, who, in front of a dantesque scenario, saw everything running for the best of the worlds. It is clear that today we are formally fulfilling an obligation arising from the law, i.e. the need to adjust the Statutes to Law No. 2 / 2013 and, therefore, obviously, the Socialist Party will not impede this process. It's mandatory. We hope, however, that fair demands will be accepted in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u46	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u47	I conclude, Mr. President. I leave only one note, which is transversal: the recognition of something which is inconceivable that is not already recognised, i.e. the possibility of the social organs of the Orders to perform their function with credit of hours or dispensation of service, something which is recognized—and well! — trade union associations, which obviously do not have the constitutional dignity of the autonomous administration of the State. [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] What I'm saying is that what is already recognised to each other has to be recognized. Mrs. Deputy realized exactly what I meant. I conclude by welcoming the presence of Mr. Bastonaires and expressing the interest of the Socialist Party in being welcomed and recognized for the fair treatment of these Orders. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u49	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in his initial speech he said that the Government had the concern and centrality, in drafting these bills, to undertake a uniformization of what could be standardized to create a harmony in the bills and that everything that was different had a specific treatment. Well, Mr Secretary of State, looking at the proposals for legislation and, in particular, the amendments to the Statutes of the Medical Order, the Order of Dentists, the Order of Pharmaceuticals and the Order of Nurses, we find that there was no equal treatment on the part of the Government, a uniformization of transversal aspects to all these Orders. We are talking in particular about the dispensation of functions for the performance of the duties of the members of these Orders. The question we would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is: why has the government not complied with this principle of uniformization in this area? Mr. Secretary of State, it is curious that the government has chosen to create an inequality, or inequality, in aspects that we believe should have exactly the same treatment. Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State: by failing to consider this provision in the proposed laws, it will create serious obstacles to the exercise of these functions and, in particular, in the case of the Medical Order, in the follow-up to the medical boarding school. The Portuguese Communist Party hopes that this option of the Government not to place the dispensation of functions is not a way of penalizing the Orders, particularly the Order of the Doctors, which over these years of the Government has taken critical and uncomfortable positions for the Government. The question that we would like to have seen answered initially is the following: what justification is given? What's the reason the government has? Mr Secretary of State today, we are having a general discussion. As such, we believe that, by passing this phase of generality, there are issues, in the specialty, that need to be resolved so that the exercise of the functions that the State assigns to the Orders can be effectively fulfilled and may be at the service of the professionals who represent. They are, in fact, professionals who have been abused by this government, whose duties this government has put in question. And it is thanks to the glow of these professionals and their commitment that the National Health Service is not in worse condition. We would therefore like to welcome the brilliant work that health professionals, under extremely precarious and outraged conditions, provide, allowing Portuguese to have a National Health Service and a quality health care provision. If it were for this government's policy and its measures, there would certainly be more situations of indignity and poor provision of quality services every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u50	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u51	Mr President, I conclude by saying that, in the field of specialty, there are issues that need to be resolved and overcome, in particular this issue of the discharge of duties for which they have been elected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u52	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing, in general today, proposals for legislation aimed at changes to the statutes of the various professional orders, a matter of greater relevance for the credibility of an extensive role of professions, which we respect very much, and also for the improvement of quality in the provision of multiple acts and services to citizens. I would like to congratulate all the representatives of the professional orders that are present here and, in their person, the hundreds of thousands of professionals who represent and who greatly contribute to the dignity of Portuguese society. If you will allow me, I cannot but make a challenge to see, in the presidency of professional orders, more female elements, in a situation that is based on criteria of qualification and professionalism and which truly reflects women's representation in the different professions involved here. Having said this and taking into account the constraints of time, we will make a brief overall comment on the proposals in question. As can be read in the wording of each of the proposed laws, the amendments to the statutes of the existing professional orders in Portugal aim to update the framework of the rules for the creation, organization and functioning of professional public associations and for the access and exercise of professions regulated by professional public associations. Issues such as freedom to provide services, freedom of establishment, vocational training, professional societies, incompatibilities and impediments, advertising, among others are concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u55	thus and in accordance with Article 53 ( 2 ). that of Law No 2 / 2013, the professional public associations already established shall take the measures necessary to comply with this Law. The proposals for legislation which have been tabled by the Parliamentary Health Committee relate to the statutes of four professional orders. That is: the Order of Doctors, the Order of Dentists, the Order of Nurses and the Order of Pharmaceuticals. in the process of drafting these bills, as has already been said, the various professional orders in question were heard by the government. however, it is natural that each of the orders understands that some points of these bills can be corrected or amended. The work is therefore not completed. We understand that there are issues that may arise in respect of each order and that should be discussed and worked in the specialty. We are fully available to promote the hearings of each order in the field of speciality in order to carry out legislative work which harmonizes the provisions of Law No 2 / 2013 and the claims and contributions of the various orders. The CDS-PP is available to dialogue and, in its own place, try to find a point of balance among all, for the benefit of all professionals involved and, above all, for those to whom professionals give the best of their work. I want to conclude as I began, Mr President, by thanking the social contribution of these professions. It is a contribution that we very much respect and recognise, particularly in times of exception and difficulties, as has been mentioned here. I therefore welcome the professionalism and resilience of professionals who, in the field of health, have contributed to the dignity of Portuguese society. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u56	For an intervention, by the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I renew the compliments of the Left Block bench to the representatives of the Orders of Nurses, Pharmaceuticals, Physicians and Dentists, which are the subject of debate on this particular point of our agenda. With regard to the proposed legislation under discussion, which enshrines the statutes for these Orders, the Block of the Left understands, as it understands in relation to the other orders, that it will be the process in the specialty which will allow us to go further, taking into account all the contributions which, meanwhile, the orders and other professionals intend to bring to the Assembly of the Republic and that, in this process, an open and participated process, it is possible to clarify those points which now seem to us, from what we know and from the opinion of the Orders, the most controversial or those in which it is necessary to go a little further. With regard to the Order of Doctors — and in view of the time we have, it will not be possible to balance all the problems that arise — it seems to us that the issues of consecrating the medical act are important and deserve an in-depth debate. We are also sensitive to the issue of dispensation of the leaders of the order, as it is obvious. however, we believe that issues such as the consecration of the medical act should merit a significant deepening. With regard to the Order of the Nurses, the question of the protected professional exercise, which, in fact, has been addressed by the Secretary of State, must also be examined in depth. There are no solutions at first that are unique or completely finished. What we see is that there is a position on the part of the Government and the protection in this matter and that orders also have one position and other proposals. It must therefore be this opening, in particular for the positions of orders, which the Assembly of the Republic must accept and debate in order to find the best solutions, as well as all the suggestions that come to us from the Order of Pharmaceuticals and the Order of Dentists. In fact, these are orders of professionals that the Portuguese people recognize with great respect and with great confidence. And since we are talking about those and those who, being doctors or nurses, guarantee us the National Health Service, taking advantage of the presence of Mr. Secretary of State in this debate, did not want to end my intervention without saying a few words of greeting. The professionals of the National Health Service deserve the confidence of the Portuguese people and, when they deserve the confidence of the Portuguese people, this must be a very important sign for both Members and Members of Parliament, either for the Government, because they have ensured the provision of health care in a dramatic framework — I repeat, in a dramatic framework — in which the government's policy has been to point batteries to the destruction of the National Health Service. So we're discussing orders, I know, and we're discussing professional statutes, I know. But in this debate, it is very good to say a word of appreciation of the professionals of the National Health Service and a word of condemnation of the policies of this government in relation to the health sector in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u58	The Bureau did not register any more inscriptions and, indeed, the Members. Members who have signed up to intervene no longer have time to do so. Accordingly, the proposed laws that have just been discussed will be voted on in the voting period. Let us now proceed to the discussion of the next item on the agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the proposal for a law No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery, regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public professional schools, within the framework of non-prior education, introducing clarifications in their respective schemes, and projects under lein. 881 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations ( PCP ), 883/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens democratic control by the deliberative bodies of the participating entities on the entities of the local business sector and other entities within the perimeter of the local administration by the second amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August ( BE ), and 884 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures labour stability for workers in the local business sector by making the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August, adapting it to Council Directive 2001 / 23 / EC of 12 March ( BE ). To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today presents to the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening important reforms in progress and largely carried out in the local administration. On the one hand, in municipal companies, in local companies, three changes that seek to regulate the situation of companies with professional schools, increase the control, transparency and sustainability of cooperative regimes that were not subject to the same rules as municipal companies and regulating the taxation on IRC, i.e. the non- incidence on the options and operations of extinction of internalised enterprises, which was making some of the extinction operations difficult. Therefore, firstly, the reform of the local business sector here strengthened and boosted; secondly, the decentralization of competences by recognizing universally assigning to municipalities competences for vocational education; thirdly, strengthening the scale and promoting the sharing of services between municipalities. These are all these important structural reforms in the local administration that come on a path of three years of reforms with results already achieved. Let me highlight in the municipal business sector the following: with the reforms that the government has made and that the autoarchs are implementing, there has been a reduction of more than 40% of the municipal companies in Portugal. in fact, more than 100 no longer exist and at least 70 are in realisation the liquidation process. Decentralisation is another very important measure, which here, in the field of vocational education, is extended, implemented and established. They are therefore important reforms with results and allow me to say that, if it is true that, on the one hand, they translate an important deterioration of structures, as has been done with the leaders and with the political support offices, on the other hand, they make this deterioration of structures always as recent history has shown us, that is, safeguarding public service. contrary to what some had been vaccinating three and a half years ago, the extinction of municipal companies did not diminish the local public service. It was possible, with the efforts of the autarchs, to continue the local public service without interruption and, on the other hand, a more adjusted, sustainable local administration and the service of the populations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u60	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these four years, the Government has made profound changes in the area of the authorities, changes which are part of a clear strategy to dismantle democratic local power, disregarding its constitutional principles. With successive legislative and also budgetary amendments at the State budget level, the Government imposed an unbearable financial asphyxiation on the authorities either by cuts in State budget transfers or by reducing the participation of authorities in State taxes, prevented the authorities from hiring the necessary workers and forced the reduction and merger of municipal services with very negative consequences in the authorities and populations by reducing the ability of authorities to intervene in the resolution of the problems of their populations and in a clear interference in the administrative, financial and technical autonomy of the democratic local authority, moreover, as recently reaffirmed the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. It was therefore a political and ideological option to attack one of the pillars of our democratic regime, the democratic local power, the participation of the people, public employment and public services. In view of the worrying situation in which the authorities are located, the CFP today brought to the Assembly of the Republic a bill proposing a strengthening of the means of the authorities to develop their abilities and competences properly. We propose: strengthening the participation of authorities in state taxes by 25, 3 %, in compliance with the constitutional principle of fair distribution of public resources between central and local administration; maintaining the revenue of the authorities, given that, in view of the situation for which the Government has pushed them, they cannot exempt these revenues; the participation of the FAM ( Municipal Support Fund) should be solely of the responsibility of the State, avoiding the worsening of the economic and financial situation to the most autarchies and subsequently the loss of more revenue; municipalities in situations of imbalance should be able to resort to sanitation instruments, restructuring, where appropriate, sanitation or rebalancing plans that are in force which constitute a broader instrument and not only within the framework of the GEF, as the law establishes today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings to the Assembly of the Republic a draft amending five legal regimes, proving that legislation in a hurry such as the Government, the PSD and the CDS have printed in the Assembly of the Republic, does not work well. This proposal by the Government only shows the arbitrary form as it has legislation and how the government goes along with the decisive issues that are being put to the democratic local power, in particular the financing regime of local authorities. More: the ride of an intention to correct an error, it is created by the government, it imposes new powers and competences for the authorities, so the CFP cannot follow this proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u62	To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u63	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. State Secretary for Local Administration, Mrs. Members: Today the Government is presenting a proposal for amendment to Law No 50 / 2012, law of the local business sector, this to simplify language and we understand ourselves. Mr. Secretary of State Antonio Leitão Amaro, I would almost say that the Government is presenting a bill that will clarify some aspects and correct other aspects of this law, but the Government forgets what is fundamental in this law and does not correct what needs to be corrected. I am referring, of course, to the situation of workers and workers in municipal enterprises. For this reason, the Left Block again presents a bill as a solution in order to guarantee the jobs of all those who have in many cases given their best to municipal companies. Your Government, in amendments to Law No 50 / 2012, forgets what is important to change, which is the absolute guarantee that workers and workers of municipal companies can believe in their jobs. in this sense, we present a bill—in fact, it is known the position of the Left Block on municipal companies: we have never been enthusiastic, nor promoters of municipal companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u64	I couldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u65	Mr Secretary of State, we could be able, because in the municipal assemblies—and there we are now going to the other bill of the Left Block which, I think, you know — the Left Block has a word to say. As you know, the Left Block, now, even had a word to say about the dissolution of some municipal companies through the councillors and councillors who are elected in the municipal chambers. That's why it's not worth making a rough board of what's not a straight board.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u66	You're right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u67	I'm right. Thank you, Secretary of State. But, continuing, we were never enthusiastic, on the contrary, but we are fully aware of the problems that Law No. 50/2012 has caused, in fact, eventually caused more problems than those that helped to solve. The dissolution of municipal companies cannot or should not question the provision of public services in any way, and some are putting — see the case of MoveAveiro, which is a transport company, but can be housing, can be culture, and jobs. If municipal companies had a service that was concrete and necessary, this service must be internalized. in this sense, we present this bill. But let's go further and introduce another one, which I cannot help but say a few words here, because it is a diploma that goes towards clarification, competences, monitoring and supervision by the municipal assemblies on the local business sector. This is a fundamental issue. The local business sector must be democratically scrutinized on legislative bodies at municipal level. They will certainly follow us up on this proposal. In fact, I remember the PSD and some Members who are, at the same time, municipal Members in Lisbon, the meaning of this proposal from the Left Block so that the municipal assemblies are called to have a word. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u68	Mr Jorge Manuel Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u69	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. State Secretary for Local Administration, Mrs. Members : Today we discuss Bill No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a ) of the Government, draft law No 881 / XII ( 4 ). a ), of the PCP, and the projects of lein.o 883 and 884 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the Left Block. Bill No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the Government, amends Law No 50 / 2012, on the legal regime of local business activity and local participations, Law No 73 / 2013, on the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, Law No 75 / 2013, on the legal regime of inter-municipal entities and local associations, Law No 53 / 2014, on the legal regime of municipal financial recovery, regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 on the legal regime of private and public professional schools within the framework of non-superior education. These are changes to a relatively recent set of legislation on the responsibility of the current government. The Government justifies them for the need to clarify the creation of inter-municipalised services, not only by a number of municipalities, but also by inter-municipal entities. the possibility of schools in vocational education by the municipalities, by the framework of cooperative regimes and the definition of the concept of subsidies to exploitation for the purposes of dissolution of local companies. It understands the PS, in accordance with the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, that the Government could have gone further taking into account the demands of the municipalities. It would have been welcomed that, from the dialogue with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, it would result in a closer approach to the positions expressed by the entity representing the democratic local power. The PS, as the most representative party of the municipalities in Portugal, will be available to contribute, as a specialist, to the further improvement of the proposed amendments, going to meet the authors who, legitimized also by popular vote, have on the ground the responsibility to respond to the problems of the population and to the application of the legislation that, in the House of Democracy, is approved. As regards draft law No 881 / XII ( 4. a ), from the CFP, we understand the financial difficulty of municipalities such as the financial difficulties of the country or citizens in general, but we cannot follow the CFP in this project. We are a few months away from legislative elections, it will be up to the new government, in the preparation of the 2016 Budget, to evaluate the country's budgetary possibilities in the distribution of public resources, in this case of the Financial Balance Fund for local authorities. As for the projects of the Block of Left, we follow the Block of Left in the project that strengthens the democratic control and supervision exercised by deliberative bodies, by the municipal assemblies, by the metropolitan council, by the intermunicipal assembly and by the intermunicipal council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u70	Mr Lino Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We have already heard from the Government the lines of the bill whose amendments are intended to clarify and calibrate certain aspects of legal regimes of the local administration's activity. Legal schemes whose implementation and improvement, in the context of a broad reform of the local administration led by this majority, either in the powers and tasks of the authorities, either in the programmes supporting the local economy and in the recovery of balance and sustainability, either in the financial framework, either in the reorganization of services, either in intermunicipal cooperation or in the decentralization measures, have obvious and obvious results: a surplus budget of around EUR 500 million; a reduction of EUR 1000 million, which amounts to 69 % in late payments; a reduction of EUR 2500 million, i.e. less 28 %, in the debt of local power. These are the balances and the result of this reform. Local power has, has and will have a fundamental role to play in the development of the country, as a privileged space for solving problems, in a logic of proximity to reality. It was in the front line in the adoption of new models of governance and structural reforms, which allow Portugal to look forward to demanding but sustained economic growth, and far away from the forecasts of recession, discredit, speech of the impossible or admission of shortcuts, which have not rarely been proclaimed by the opposition, as in recent days. The changes presented here today are an integral part of a broad reform of the local administration, which must be assumed and has, firstly, the overall positive effort of the municipalities. in the context of the amendments that are presented here, it specifically highlights the reform carried out in the local business sector. It was a reform with an obvious objective: to clearly identify the perimeter of local administration entities — the entities that are relevant and should be taken into account for the purposes of clearing the limits on total debt relevant to each municipality — and to avoid the existence of local companies without a minimum of own revenue, without a minimum of expenditure, which have neither product nor customers, which are unaware of the real public service they provide, i.e., without sustainability and which are unwarrantedly dependent solely on the budget of the municipalities, because they cost the municipalities, but also cost the taxes of the Portuguese. There is not a single citizen, a single monk or user who does not agree with this situation. The proposed amendments are aimed at clarifying and calibrating certain aspects of this legal regime in order to improve the solutions enshrined. There are three very simple aspects that should be taken into account: the definition of the scope of the concept of subsidies for exploitation, clarifying, now, in the law, as had already been done by interpretation, that certain subsidies or financial flows do not relate to the application of the ratios; differentiate, to this extent, local companies whose main activity is education and vocational training, expressly dedicating the extension of the allocation to municipalities in the areas of education and vocational training, including, materially, the promotion and provision of vocational education and training courses; and exclude the result of liquidation, as a result of its dissolution, to determine the taxable profit of local companies. They are relevant aspects, but they are aspects in such a consensual way that they deserve the support and favorable opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, build, and build lastingly, it costs, but there are no shortcuts. It is not to perfect, suit or calibrate the great challenge, because that is our duty, it is the duty of all of us, and that is only possible, because much of the way has already been made. Our challenge is not to allow us to go back to the shortcuts of the past, our challenge is not to return to the parties of the past that have compromised our future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u72	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u73	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. State Secretary for Local Administration, Mrs. Members: The current government has carried out important reforms in the field of local administration, reforms that were not so intensively carried out in our country for several decades. We knew in advance that these reforms, with this amplitude, with this dimension, of course, would need small, small adjustments, small adjustments. That is exactly what we are doing with this bill. They are small adjustments that solidify the positive results we have achieved with this set of reforms. By reference to the beginning of 2011, Mrs Paula Santos, I should like to recall that the gross debt of the authorities was reduced by more than 30 %, which represents a reduction of more than EUR 2300 million. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u74	Late payments to suppliers, Mrs Paula Santos, recorded a 70 % reduction, equivalent to more than EUR 1000 million. I would also remind you, Mrs Deputies, that the local administration today has a budget surplus of EUR 452 million. For these results, they were decisive—I know and acknowledge—the effort, commitment and dedication of all our authorships. And that commitment was applied even when they disagreed with the government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Looking back, reality did not give the opposition parties any reason. in fact, the reforms carried out by this government and, in particular, those of the local business sector, which we are also looking at today, did not result in the reduction of public services provided in local authorities, Mrs Helena Pinto. It did not diminish the capacity of the local authorities to intervene, it did not operate the privatization of public services, Mrs Paula Santos, did not abandon the proximity of the authorities to the populations. Nothing, nothing, none of that happened! Local power has advanced, and has advanced markedly, in terms of financial balance and sustainability. Today, local power is stronger, more robust and more modern. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u75	For a second speech, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that in this debate it was clear that, in fact, the PSD and the CDS do not want to discuss the main concerns faced by the authorities on their day-to-day, concerns, which, in fact, were identified at the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and are part of their conclusions. They completely ignore those who are the reflections and concerns of the authorities or, then, want to continue to hide them under the carpet, as if nothing had happened, so as not to have to recognize the consequences of your policies. And the consequences of your policies are that, today, local power has less capacity to respond to population problems. The consequences of your policies are that today, the local power needs more workers to fulfil its responsibilities and competences, and it is impossible to have, by imposing this PSD and CDS government. In fact, it is quite clear here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what this government, the PSD and the CDS want is to pursue the path of dismantling the democratic local power, not providing the authorities with the appropriate means — financial and technical — in order to be able to fulfil their responsibilities and much less respecting the autonomy of the democratic local power. It is clear from this debate that, in fact, this fundamental pillar of democracy, which is the authorities, the democratic local power, popular participation, for the PSD and the CDS, has very little value. Therefore, they have not intervened in terms of their appreciation, only in fact, so that they are less and less able to respond to the populations and treat them as if they were decentralised services of the central administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u77	You have the floor, too, for a second speech, Mr. State Secretary of the Local Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First note, everyone except the CFP believes it is important to continue the decentralization of competences, particularly in this case in the field of vocational education. The authorities can, must and do want to take on new responsibilities, only the centralists always refuse it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u79	Second note, in particular for the CFP, which speaks in dismantling local power, in financial asphyxiation, in reducing the capacity of the authorities: Mrs Paula Santos, once again, but this is not new, the PCP speaks of a reality that does not exist, and is not denied by me, it is by the autarchs. [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, if you are paying attention to the news and position of the autarchs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u80	Mr. Secretary of State is that you have not heard! And you were there, at Congress, just like I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u81	... you know that there is no chamber president, there is no authority that, this April, approving your accounts, has not told the country and its leaders: "We have managed to reduce debt, we have improved our sustainability, we have adjusted our accounts". And they say that, contrary to what you are saying, with pride. Why? Because the autarchs, like this majority, know that to rule well, to rule by people is to rule with good account, Mrs. Deputy! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u82	Not a week ago, this month of April, when there is no municipal assembly to say: « We have reduced our imbalance, we have reduced our debt, this is good for our taxpayers». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, let me tell you, and also Mrs Helena Pinto, who said: "No! There is at least one case in which this loss and adjustment have called into question the public service’ — for the most part, it will have been only one case —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u83	It's not one, it's several!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u84	...that, in the case of Aveiro, the problem is not the extinction of the municipal company, it is the debt that came from behind. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u85	The problem is not to have to pay the debt, it is the debt there is, Mrs. Helena Pinto!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u86	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u87	Mrs Debt, the problem is not to say: "How bad we have to pay! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Don't! The right way, what the Portuguese ask us is that we pay it and eliminate imbalances and imbalances. That is what we have done, and that is what the authorities are setting an example for the country! Finally, Mr President, we have been making profound reforms in the local administration for three and a half years and the autarchs have taught what reformism is: they have denied the parliamentary opposition the theory that reform is bad and have shown that fears that VV. They wanted to impose, charge or suggest were wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u89	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u90	It was possible to reform, in local administration, with great improvement in balance and sustainability, continuing to defend public service and showing the country that reforming is worth it and gives results. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u91	Mrs Helena Pinto has signed up, I believe, to use one second that the Left Block still has. Madam Member, I don't even dare ask you to be brief, so it's obvious... You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u92	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration, in the municipal assemblies that take place this month, there is another balance sheet to be taken. Mr. Secretary of State says that the municipal assemblies will say that we reduce the imbalance, but it is good to know that they will also have another speech, because they will say: "We have increased the IMI to the maximum rate;... [[PSD protests.]] ... we increase rates; there are fewer public services, because there are fewer workers in local authorities». In other words, Mr Secretary of State, the authorities, many of them not all, also contributed to the impoverishment of the population and applied local austerity measures emanating from their government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u93	Before we conclude this debate, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor, since he still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Paula Santos, it was clear from this debate that the CFP devalues the balance and financial sustainability of the authorities. It was clear, Mrs Paula Santos, that the CFP, by the voice of Mr the Member, is against the strengthening of the powers of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u95	What about the resources? Oh, my God! The media? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u96	It was also clear in this debate, Mrs Paula Santos, that the CFP is in favour of the usual speech, but this time its speech is completely out of date. The honourable Member here referred to the fact that the financial transfers to the authorities had decreased. It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u97	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u98	The transfers from the State budget to local authorities in 2015 through the Local Finance Act rose by 5, 81 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u99	Tell the whole truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u100	The honourable Member here referred to the reduction of tax revenue from the authorities. It's false, Mrs. Deputy! Tax revenues rose or will rise from EUR 2500 million in 2014 to EUR 2700 million in 2015. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u101	They didn't even comply with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u102	The honourable Member here referred to other taxes. Look, Mr Member, IMI's revenue for local authorities is going to rise this year, 13 %, 6 %! I know that in the Communist Party authorities this rise will be superior. Of all the local authorities in the country, do you know how many of the Communist Party charge the maximum rate of IMI? It's 75, 3 %, Mrs. Deputy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u103	Mrs. Members, having closed this debate, we will generally proceed to the discussion of Bill No 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production plants from renewable energy sources. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims to create the system of auditors' profession to be applied to cogeneration and renewable energy production facilities. It is a matter which is provided for in the legislation since 2010, notably in Decree-Law No 19 / 2010 of 23 August, and in Decree-Law No 23 / 2010 of 25 March. It was planned to legislate this matter through a government member's portfolio, but the Government considered that, as it is a matter relating to access to professions, it would be more appropriate to submit this regime to the cogeneration auditors and renewable energies in the normal process of establishing access to professions which, as they will know, should be dealt with through the Assembly of the Republic. What we have done, then, was to prepare a bill that meets the requirements for access to this profession which is very important, since the reforms made so far in the sector require proper compliance of the audits to cogeneration. As you know, one of the problems that exists in the cogeneration sector is the need to ensure that we have true cogenerations, with real energy efficiency and, for that, we need to be on the ground and implement this audit regime. As a result of the proposal, we also included the audit regime applied to the verification of production through renewable energy sources. Therefore, it will also be possible to have these audits by specialized technicians to confirm the origin of energy production, if renewable, for the purposes of issuing their certificates or guarantees of origin. It was subject to regular consultations, particularly within the framework of the Committee on the Regulation of Access to Professions ( CRAP ) and within the framework of the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) and also in the autonomous regions, having obtained a favourable opinion in all of them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the voting time and, as the Bureau is currently not registering, we will begin to vote. We will resume the discussion of this bill later.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u106	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u107	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u108	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group was trying to register a Member, but it had not yet managed to have a telephone line for the Bureau, making it almost impossible to make such an inscription. I asked for the floor to write to Mrs. Mrs. Odete Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u109	The Bureau will record that inscription. There are other Mrs. Members who have already made the Bureau their intention to intervene, but we shall now proceed to the vote, unless there is agreement of the banks that they will be done at the end of the debate, since we still have some time for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u110	Mr President, I believe that all the parliamentary groups are abrogating the proposal that I am going to make. We suggest that, as this is the last debate, the votes be taken at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u111	I do not see any opposition and, therefore, with the consensus of all parliamentary groups, we will continue with the debate of Bill No 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u112	Mr President, Secretary of State for Energy, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This bill aims to define the system of access and exercise of the activity of auditing services of energy estimates, heating or cooling, from renewable sources, by natural or collective persons, when the installation concerned uses technologies that provide the operation of the installation auditors in cogeneration. This initiative shall also carry out the recognition and registration of auditors and audit firms through the single electronic counter, ensuring the pursuit of the objectives of deburocratisation and administrative simplification. However, we have some comments to make. From now on, the fact that this initiative mentions Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015, which has not yet been published, which is all but something to be advised in terms of good practices of the legislative process. The technical note itself and the opinion mention this issue, as well as the fact that it is expected that it will be published during the speciality discussion process. We also believe that this diploma should have been sent to the Assembly of the Republic with a copy of the opinions or contributions resulting from direct consultation with the entities. We have found that, despite the explanatory statement, the opinion of the Order of Technical Engineers does not come along with this bill. in general, this diploma has nothing to oppose, possibly having some aspects that may be improved in the field of discussion in the specialty, namely the recommendation of the National Data Protection Commission, which suggests the prohibition of indexing to search engines from the updated list of persons recognized and registered in terms of the diploma and the protection of their data to comply with the conditions under which data are treated, in accordance with the data protection law. The Committee on the Regulation of Access to Professions generally agrees with this diploma, which we also note, but, in our view, there are still some restrictions that limit access to the profession. I believe that, in a debate on the subject, we must, by listening to the Orders to which this diploma applies, weigh that same limitation. I am referring to the requirement of two-year experience in situations, and to the requirement of four-year experience in other situations. We believe that, in the field of expertise, opinions should therefore be sought from the Orders of Technical Engineers and Engineers in order to deepen the subject matter and thus, in the course of this speciality discussion, we can consider the possible presentation of proposals to improve the diploma in question. at this stage, the PS will vote in favour. We recognize, of course, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a very important matter because cogeneration is a sector that has a weight in energy production, but it also has a great importance for industry and for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u113	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u114	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr Secretary of State for Energy, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Environmental and defence issues of greater energy efficiency have been on the agenda. We know that a society more developed and less dependent on wasteful natural resources is also a society whose economy is more competitive. Energy value, as you all know, is one of the most important areas in national production, and therefore one of the areas in which a modern government must invest. On the other hand, greater cooperation between environmental and energy policies is increasingly needed in order to ensure that international commitments are met. We are referring in particular to the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions, which is the subject of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change of the Kyoto Protocol. It is in this context that many times reference is made to cogeneration as a possibility to combat all difficulties at this level. As a technology that enables efficient rationalization of fuel consumption necessary for the production of useful energy, cogeneration can ensure a high use of primary energy. Thus, and in the context of the development of this issue, today we discuss the regime of access to the activity of the provision of audit services to cogeneration or production facilities from renewable energy sources. In order to develop a given technology, there will always be a need for qualified technicians to monitor compliance with the criteria, in this case of efficiency. That is also why it is intended, with the diploma currently under discussion, that there is a guarantee of origin issued through an electronic document that shows the amount of energy produced from renewable sources. On the other hand, the accounting of the heating or cooling energy made from renewable energy sources will be made by means of confirmatory estimates through audit. As is known, Decree-Law No. 23 / 2010 of 25 March provides for audits of cogeneration production facilities and equipment, as well as energy measurement equipment to ensure the correct qualification of installations. That is why it is understood, as part of the amendment to the proposal, that technicians must be recognised and registered by the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, and that it is up to the member of the Government responsible for the area of energy to approve, by door, the status of cogeneration production plant auditors. Still, and because we are talking about professions, the Government has considered it prudent to refer the legal regime of access to this profession to the Assembly of the Republic, given its legislative powers. In addition, the opinions of the Committee on the Regulation of Access to Professions and the Order of Technical Engineers, which do not oppose the approval of the diploma, have also been respected. The Legislative Assembly of the Azores also sent in favour. We are thus, and with more this change, making the country more and more energy efficient and reducing its CO2 emissions. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u115	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Odete Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u116	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: The proposed law we are discussing today approves the arrangements for access and exercise of the audit service provision activities of cogeneration production facilities and for the provision of audit services of production facilities that, irrespective of technology, use renewable sources. This proposal is in line with the legal decrees transposing to the internal legal order the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market and recognition of professional qualifications. These European directives are the basis and framework for what is being discussed here today. As already said by Mr. Secretary of State, Decree-Law No. 23 / 2010 defined the legal regime of the production of electrical and mechanical energy and useful heat produced in cogeneration, already providing for audits to installations and production equipment in cogeneration, as well as energy measurement equipment. Such audits shall be carried out by persons recognised and registered by the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology. in the case of renewable energies, the guarantee of origin shall be issued through an electronic document attesting the amount of energy produced from renewable sources, accounting for heating energy or cooling from renewable energy sources through estimates. This weighting shall be drawn up on the basis of the equipment characteristics used in energy production, and estimates subject to confirmation shall also be made by means of an audit. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members, it should also be noted that the Government, in addition to the measures we are discussing today, has, throughout the legislature, presented various defensive and dynamizing initiatives of the producer system as a whole. I cannot fail to mention, for example, the two package of measures which also include measures relating to both cogeneration and energy from renewable sources, which have allowed cuts in the accumulated value of EUR 3400 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u117	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u118	These cuts, which are the so-called "excessive incomes", have prevented much higher increases than those made and this was the first government to do so, thus ensuring the sustainability of the national electricity sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u119	Mr Secretary of State, in the view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, an initiative such as this contributes significantly to increasing confidence in renewable energy and cogeneration, in particular with audits to be carried out by qualified professionals, engineers or technicians, or through the validity of securities for five years, as well as by prohibiting work in enterprises in the area during the three years following the cessation of activity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u120	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State : On the part of the CFP, I believe it is relatively consensual that the very activity of the audit of cogeneration production facilities or from renewable energy sources constitutes a first line of defense regarding the quality, safety and environmental and energy performance of these installations, which tend to play an increasingly important role both in the context of the Portuguese industrial apparatus and in the more specific concept of energy production and the national energy system. However, in this activity, we are, of course, on the side of those who consider that this activity must be regulated, framed, recognized and properly registered at the level of state administration services, although we also consider that the professional associations themselves, the professionals of these activities, should have an important role in conducting the legislative process themselves. That is why, unfortunately, since the opinion of the Order of Technical Engineers has not yet been given to the Assembly of the Republic, and we also have no knowledge of the Order of Engineers, the Assembly will have to listen to and take into account the views of these entities, of course, and for example the ethical and professional duties defined in Article 5. o. We will have to listen to these and other matters. Generally and abstractly, everyone agrees with the idea of simplification, deburocratization, single counters, etc. , but we cannot fail to take into account the warnings, in particular the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ), regarding the standards in this proposal, for example with regard to Article 7. the, which speaks of the lists of auditors and their advertising, even taking into account the cautions of Article 10. o. It is therefore necessary to take into account the opinion and alert of the CNPD on this matter. How it would be expected of this government's policy and with the troika still making its presence felt in Article 8. the, as in Article 9. the, there comes the sacrosanct Services Directive and the liberalisation of this matter in the Community context, in the European context. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that we, CFP, also consider that, with regard to counter-ordinations, the sanctions regime, in addition to the differentiation between individuals and collectives, between workers and companies, in addition to this differentiation, there should also be consideration and differentiation by the size of companies. It is not the same thing a practice of transgression and infringement being committed by a medium or a large company or a micro enterprise. The situation is different, the economic and financial weight is different, the counter-ordination and the weight of the fine should also be differentiated. These comments, these alerts, remain these repairs for registration at work in the specialty we will have to develop. in this sense, Mr. Members, Mr Secretary of State, we will certainly have work to develop in the specialty, on a path that will have to be taken and opened, taking into account, in a serious way, the prospects of the relevant professional orders in this process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is one more of the tens of proposals that have arrived at the Assembly of the Republic without much time or ability to analyse them. As we mentioned last week, the government, the troika's curfew, decided to send proposals and more proposals to this House without having the time we need to examine them. And we repeat the arguments, because they do not change, is part of the coherence and analysis of the proposals: simplification is good, less bureaucracy is good; we are against the liberalisation directive because we think that it cannot be treated as equal what is not equal and we fear what liberalisation can do in terms of protection or deprotection of professions and professionals in Portugal. To treat as equal professionals in Portugal, as in other countries, when we are competing with very different economies, can have very different consequences in all countries and this should be careful. Another repair we make in relation to this proposal — and we have already done it before — is that the government always says that it has heard the orders representative of the professionals, but the House is not aware of the evidence of this. Therefore, we cannot analyze what has been incorporated and what has not been and is an essential issue so that we can evaluate the proposal that we have in our hands and understand the opinion of the professionals to whom it is addressed. We therefore reinforce here the need to listen to these orders and to ask for opinions, so that, in particular, we can say what we think about these proposals, because, within the limits, it is the professionals they are interested in, in the part that professionals are concerned about. in part concerning the need for a careful audit, verification of the control of cogeneration and renewable energy activities, we follow the need for this audit. We want to ensure that cogeneration is even cogeneration, we want to ensure that both environmental and financial conditions, because many of these activities have a subsidised nature, are being monitored and, therefore, we find it very important that the audit be done. On the other hand, we have already put forward proposals in the past, which went in this direction. Therefore, we find it important to ensure this need to monitor, verify and monitor these activities, but we also want to listen to professionals and ensure that their profession and their rights are being protected. I think that's everyone's concern. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u124	And attention to the means of the Directorate-General!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u125	We therefore conclude this fifth item on the agenda. I remember adding to the votes on 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2015 ; motion for a resolution No 111 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Maritime Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Ankara on 23 October 2014 and draft resolution No 1432/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) : — establishes the Office for External Budgetary Control ( fourth amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February 2004 approving the Structure and Competences of the Services of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verde ), as indicated in the agenda of work without time for discussion. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 202 presences, to which are added those of the MPs Francisco Lopes, the PCP, Luís Pita Amisexa, the PS and Francisca Almeida, the PSD, making 205 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with the appreciation of three weighing votes, starting with vote No 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of former MP Élio Castro Pereira ( CDS-PP ), which Mr Abel Baptiste will do in favour of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u126	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Élio Mário de Castro Pereira was born in Alvarenga, in the municipality of Arouca, on May 18, 1947. Son of Mário Pereira Soares and Nazaré de Castro Soares, died last March 19, in Portalegre, victim of sudden death. Élio Castro Pereira was formed in law by the Faculty of Coimbra, from where he followed to Portalegre, a land he welcomed as his, where he came to establish himself as a lawyer, where he married and where he had two daughters, Helia and Leticia. During the 70s, he joined the profession of law teacher and public administration at the National Portalegre High School. He has joined the CDS since the date of the founding of the CDS, having held various positions, both at the level of the council, either district or even national, from which he stands out he has been National Counsellor, Vice-President of the District Policy Committee of the CDS Portalegre, District Delegate of Portalegre of the idl-Instituto Amaro da Costa, District Delegate of the Federation of Democratic Workers-Christians. He was currently performing the role of Vice-President of the Concelia Political Committee on Portalegre of the CDS. Élio Castro Pereira was a member of the Assembly of the Republic by the electoral circle of Portalegre, by the lists of the Democratic Alliance, in the II legislature and was, on several occasions, elected by the Municipal Assembly of Portalegre. In 2009, he led the CDS list to Portalegre, and in 2013 he integrated the PSD / CDS-PP coalition list. Whether in the exercise of counsel, whether when he performed political and elective positions, he always based his performance on an enormous social consciousness and a progressive and realistic view of Christian democracy, constantly in defense of the most needy, having farmed in his land of adoption the nickname ‘poor’s lawyer, because of his concern with the most needy. by the above, the Assembly of the Republic decides to pay due tribute to Elio de Castro Pereira, expressing its deep sorrow and dismay for its disappearance and presents to the family his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read vote No 272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of writer Ana Vicente ( PS and BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Ana Vicente died on 19 April, a victim of prolonged illness, who faced the courage and dignity with which she lived all her life, devoting her to just causes that she chose and for which she was beaten, at a time and in a country culturally contrary to her values of justice and equality. Writer, feminist and Catholic, Ana Vicente was a prominent activist of women's rights, for whose social and cultural emancipation he fought throughout a life of consistent civic intervention, in the performance of official functions and in the service to the most vulnerable and those without voice. Member of the Commission on the Status of Women, President of the Commission on Equality and the Rights of Women between 1992 and 1996, member of several non-governmental organizations, including the Movement ‘We Are the Church’, consultant of the United Nations Population Fund, collaborator of Maria de Lourdes Pintassilgo and Leonor Beelez, during the period when they both served as State, Ana Vicente will remain in our collective memory as an example of dignity and service to the public cause and in particular as an unshakeable reference to feminism in Portugal. Already sick, he mobilized efforts, contacting Members of all parties to try to dynamize adoption policies in Portugal, on behalf of the right of children to a happy and structured childhood, in a family community of affections and oriented towards autonomy and full citizenship. Ana Vicente left a deep mark on all those and those with her who had the privilege of living, for their humanity, intelligence and obstinate culture of service to women, the country, the weakest and the forgotten, the culture. The Assembly of the Republic bows before the memory of Anne Vicente and expresses to her relatives the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz to read vote No 273 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of the investigator and former Minister Mariano Gago. ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Mariano Rebelo Pires Gago was born in Lisbon on May 16, 1948, having since early drawn an academic, political and social journey of excellence and reference. Graduated in Electrotechnical Engineering by the Technical Higher Institute of the Technical University of Lisbon in 1971, it was in that institution that also took the first steps of a life of civic dedication and political intervention, having presided over the direction of the Association of Students in 1969 / 70 and developed intense activism against the dictatorship of the New State, which would eventually lead him to exile in Switzerland. Scholarship of the Instituto de Alta Cultura, at the Laboratory of Nuclear Physics and High Energies of École Polytechnique, from 1971 to 1976, José Mariano Gago continued his studies at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Paris, where he graduated in Physics in 1976, later being a fellow in the European Nuclear Research Organization, from 1976 to 1978. Added in Physics, since 1979, at the Higher Technical Institute, where he would become a brief professoral section, Mariano Gago now marks the national scientific panorama, both as a researcher, both in the various and multifaceted roles that he played in the sector : he was president of the National Scientific and Technological Research Board (formerly the current FCT), between 1986 and 1989, he was founder and president of the Laboratory for Instrumentation and Experimental Physics of Particles in Lisbon,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, at the European and international level, whether once again as a researcher or as a promoter of public science policies, Mariano Gago left a clear mark where he went, bearing in mind the respect of the scientific community and its interlocutors, even when they maintained differences of opinion or approach. Its integrated and driving vision of the national scientific sector made it an unmistakable political reference to the sector and allowed it to profoundly modify Portuguese public policies, providing science with a new political centrality, creating mechanisms for enhanced funding and development of scientific research and significantly boosting national scientific production. Carlos Fiolhais, in an article published at the time of his death, simply translated what he represented to the sector, recognizing that in Portugal he can and should distinguish himself, in the field of science, one before and one after Mariano Gago. In parallel to the sector's training, Mariano Gago was also responsible for the development of the foundations of a true policy of scientific dissemination, emblematically poured into the launch of Viva Science — National Agency for Scientific and Technological Culture, which mobilizes new generations for knowledge and research through an integrated network of centres scattered across the country, crowned with the development of the Pavilion of Knowledge, in Lisbon. His scientific and political journey was several times recognized and appreciated, notably as Commander of the Military Order of Sant'Iago da Espada, in 1992, and also with the Great Cruz of the Order of Rio Branco, Brazil, in 1999, the Great Cruz of the Order of Isabel a Católica, Spain, in 2007, or with the Great Cruz with the Star of the Order of Mérito, of Germany, in 2009. However, more than institutional recognition and protocol, Mariano Gago's role in the history of science in Portugal and the genuine thanks of thousands of researchers and teachers of higher education translated himself in the simplest and most felt way through the homage that researchers throughout the country gave him symbolically, at 12 hours on 20 April, focusing on silence outside their institutions. The testimonies of national and foreign colleagues who are still left today on the Internet site of a spontaneous movement of the scientific community in Portugal are additional testimonies of the size of the citizen, an innovative scientist and political leader, who has never been rescinded with the idea that Portugal would be destined to be a scientific and technologically retarded country in relation to its partners. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its appreciation and gratitude for the academic contribution and civic and public service of José Mariano Gago throughout his life, addressing his family, friends and all those in the scientific sector who feel especially the dimension of his loss, his sincere condolences for the disappearance of a larger body of science in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of us to keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Government remained in the Chamber and informed the Bureau that it was associated with these three regrets that we have just adopted. I now ask Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz to read vote No 274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — From condemnation by the subjection of women to the expression of breast-feeding ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « This week, we learned that in Portugal there are women who are being subjected to an outrage practice: - they are asked to squeeze their breasts to prove that they have milk and so they can continue to enjoy the right to the hourly allowance for breastfeeding. This procedure is absolutely unworthy and abating for women and their rights. Pay attention to the testimony of a woman who went through this situation. This is a nurse who was called to the Occupational Health Service of the public hospital where she works, indicating that she should take the vaccine newsletter. That's how you did it. After updating the vaccine information, she was informed that she was going to be called to the medical office to prove breast-feeding: ‘ I froze with such aberration. I came in and was told that I would have to submit to breast expression, in order to prove the existence of milk, so that the infant condition would be validated. I confess that it was the most embarrassing and humiliating moment in my life, I felt totally violated my right to privacy and privacy. After squeezing the breasts and proving the existence of milk, I was dressed and the employee registered my fitness. Unfortunately, I wasn't the first to be subjected to this. But I'd like to be the last one. No woman should go through this. ’ This pungent testimony dispenses more words. There is a need to ban this outrageous practice. No more women should go through this. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the outraged practice of holding women the expression of breast to prove breastfeeding. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the Members of the CDS-PP João Rebelo and Teresa Anjinho and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-P.]] Mr. Miguel Santos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u134	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u135	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, do you intend to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u136	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u137	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Does Mrs Teresa Anjinho also intend to use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u138	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u139	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2015. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1416 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the continuation of the right-wing policy and proposes an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy ( PCP ) for which BE requested a separate vote from point ( d ). We shall therefore first vote under point (d) and then vote on the remaining points. We shall vote on point (d) of draft resolution No 1416/ XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and BE abstained.]] We voted to vote on the remaining points of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1440 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — To ensure a development path in Portugal, with justice and equality ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1441 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1442 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a review of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 so as to include policy measures promoting investment, growth and employment ( PS ) [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CCP, BE and Os Verdes were rejected and the PS voted against the PS.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1443 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures necessary to break with austerity ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 829 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September, which establishes the exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and defines the terms applicable to the regularization of urban areas of illegal genesis during the period established therein ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 783 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September — Process for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1379/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and compliance with the legislation applicable to them ( PS ) for which the PSD requests a separate vote in point 5, then voting the remaining numbers together. We shall therefore vote on paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the remaining numbers of the same draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions against the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1434 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of incentives for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, in particular the admissibility of application of the planned tax regime for urban rehabilitation with the necessary adaptations ( PSD and CDS-PP ) [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1438 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a fund for the financing of the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( AUGI ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and with abstentions from PS, the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 812 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants, making the second amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS and the Greens, and abstentions against the PCP and BE.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1297 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of standardized regulatory standards for the criteria for the fixing of fees and emoluments charged by higher education institutions ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, and with votes against the PS and the abstention of BE.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 463 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Financing of public higher education ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 885 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of university tips for proven economic deficiency and introduce the exemption of propines in the academic year 2015 / 2016 ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1437 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Enlargement of the universe of higher education scholarships through the revision of the « study grant regulation to higher education students » ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We will generally vote on the draft lein.os 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE and the abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 9. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 882 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1367 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We will now vote point by point on draft resolution No 1393 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ). We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 2 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We turn to the vote on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and the Greens and with a abstention from the CFP.]] We are now voting on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstention from the CFP.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1412 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government extraordinary measures to support producers of milk for the Azores ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1433 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the dairy sector ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u140	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u141	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u142	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Helena Pinto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u144	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. the BE Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u145	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. For draft law No 880 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Legalizes the cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption and creates the legal framework for the canabis social clubs ( BE) gave the Bureau a request, submitted by BE, requesting a reduction to 1. the Commission, without a vote, for a period of 30 days. We shall vote on this request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1435 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse developments in the health impacts of cannabis use, adopt measures to prevent its consumption and study the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and the abstention from BE.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1436 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an active policy in the area of drug addiction prevention and risk reduction ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens and abstaining from BE.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 314 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the issue and transmission between Portugal and the other Member States of the European Union of decisions implementing protection measures by transposing Directive 2011 / 99 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Decision. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the proposal by Lein.o 299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suitable for the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists to the scheme provided for in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organisation and operation of professional public associations [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 300 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Dentists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Pharmaceuticals, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 9. The Commission is now generally voting on Bill No 311 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Medical Order, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 312 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Nurses, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and the opinion of the Order of Nurses. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public vocational schools, within the framework of non-superior education, introducing clarifications to their respective schemes. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We will vote, in general, on the draft lein.os 881 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August establishing the legal regime for local business activities and local participations ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] For draft law No 883/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens democratic control by the deliberative bodies of the participating entities on the entities of the local business sector and other entities within the perimeter of the local administration by the second amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August ( BE ), an application was submitted by BE requesting a reduction to 11. the Commission, without a vote, for a period of 30 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 884 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures labour stability for workers in the local business sector by making the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August, adapting it to Council Directive 2001 / 23 / EC of 12 March ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production plants from renewable energy sources. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 111 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Maritime Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey signed in Ankara on 23 October 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1432 / XII ( 4. ( a ) : — Creates the Office for External Budgetary Control ( fourth amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February 2004 approving the Structure and Competence of the Services of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] If there is no opposition, we will be able to vote jointly, in general, the projects of lein.os 420 / XII ( 2. a ) — Change in territorial boundaries between the parish of Mombeja and Ferreira do Alentejo and between the municipalities of Beja and Ferreira do Alentejo ( PS ) and 421 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Changes in territorial boundaries between the parish of Beringel and Mombeja of the municipality of Beja ( PS ). [[Pause.]] Since there is no opposition, we will do so. Let us then vote together, in general, the projects of lein. 420 and 421 / XII ( 2. ( a ), both of PS's authorship. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the Member of the PSD Mário Simões and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote in the specialty, together, the projects of lein. 420 and 421 / XII ( 2. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the Member of the PSD Mário Simões and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] In the overall final vote, we shall jointly vote on the drafts of lein. 420 and 421 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the Member of the PSD Mário Simões and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u146	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u147	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u148	Mr President, to announce that the CFP will present a declaration of vote on these diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u149	Be registered. We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics and Public Works on the drafts of lein.o 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates on road infrastructure ( PS ) and 796 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates ( PSD and CDS-PP ) is due. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u150	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u151	Mr. President ( António Filipe ). — To what effect, Mrs Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u152	Mr President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u153	Mr. President ( António Filipe ). — Be registered, Member of the Commission. Mr Bruno Dias also asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u154	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u155	Be registered. We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on draft law No 835 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 5 / 98 of 31 January, establishing a new model for the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, on the proposal for a law No 290 / XII ( 4 ). (a ) — lays down the basis for the legal regime for the disclosure and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] I now ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read out two opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u156	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the County of Madeira, Funchal — Local Court — Criminal Section — J2, Case No 3539 / 11.9TAFUN, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Francisco Lopes ( PCP ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cases. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u157	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, it is also important to take into account a report and opinion relating to the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 5 ( 2 ( a ). the Statute of Deputies, by Alberto João Jardim ( PSD ), elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, for a period of 90 days, with effect from 20 April, including, claiming health reasons, being replaced by Francisco Gomes, due to the impossibility expressed by the candidate who followed him on the list, Maria João de France Monte. The opinion of the Commission on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication is that the transition from the suspension of mandate under Article 20 ( 1 ( d ). o for the status of suspension of mandate under Article 5 ( 2 ( a ). Mr. Alberto João Jardim has to be authorised to consider the reason put forward by Mr. Deputies to be justified and relevant, and thus admitted to being replaced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-24.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how today's work is completed. I announce that tomorrow, for 10 hours, the Solemn Commemorative Session of 41 will take place. the anniversary of 25 April. The following plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 29 April, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: joint discussion, in general, of the proposals for lein. 308 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents, and approves its Statute in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Advocates'Order in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and 310 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Notaries, approved by Decree-Law No 27 / 2004 of 4 February in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and amending the Statute of the Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 26 / 2004 of 4 February. The joint assessment of Bill No 305 / XII ( 4 ) will also be carried out in general. ( a ) — The thirty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September implementing Directive 2011 / 93 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and establishing the criminal identification system for convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and child sexual freedom and lein. 772 / XII of 13 December 2011 ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by complying with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention) ( PS ) and 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ). Law No 319 / XII will be discussed in general ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July adopting the Basics of Civil Protection Act. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 3 minutes.]]
