ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I begin by referring to the presentation of draft resolutions Nos 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ), 31 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Regulation No 1 -A / 2011 on the regulation of the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive Social Security System ( PCP ), 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — For the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River and by the end of the demolition of dwellings on these barrier islands ( CFP ), 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A24 ( PCP ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of existing tolls and non-introduction of new ports into the ex-SCUT of the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( PCP ), 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By abolishing the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( PCP ), 36 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 37 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel-Entre-os-Rios) ( BE) and 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Quinta do Peru High School in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( BE ), which falls to 8. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 59 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revokes the teaching retraining scheme ( PCP ) ; 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 28 / 2005 of 10 February 2005 on the Legal Regime of Access to Invalidity and Speed Pensions by Workers of the National Uranio Company ( UNE ), SA, and establishes the right to compensation in case of occupational disease or death ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 61 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of incapacity and its supply, and adapting a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Forty-first amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, criminalizing a set of conducts that violate the fundamental rights of the elderly ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May regulating the election of the President of the Republic, 16. the amendment to the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May, the sixth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'organs, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by the Organic Law No 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by limiting the application of the summary procedure to minor crimes ( Procedure 24 ). the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code ( PCP ), 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernisation of municipal veterinary services ( CFP ), 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Transition to a healthier and sustainable diet in public canteens using local and organic agricultural products ( PAN), 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines and criteria for the training of application of plant protection products — First amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defining the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products by transposing Directive 2009 / 128 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October establishing a framework for action at Community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and repealing Law No 10 / 93 of 6 April and Decree-Law No 173 / 2005 of 21 October 2005 ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, repealing the possibility of judging in summary proceedings crimes with a criminal framework of more than 5 years'imprisonment ( BE ), 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE), 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the requalification of teachers ( BE), 71 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Consecrates a regime for the selection of food products in public canteens and meals ( PS ) and 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, eliminating the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment of more than 5 years ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the agenda, in which, in addition to political declarations, two petitions will be appreciated. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Standing Committee on Social Consultation is meeting tomorrow and on the agenda of this first meeting after the elections, the debate on the increase of the national minimum wage is set. The discussion is based on a assumption that it is clear — this is a new time to recover the incomes of those who work. In recent years, the world of work has become a jungle, with precariousness and abuse as a rule of labour relations. Portugal also has outrageous levels of inequality and we continue to see poverty rates of the highest in Europe. The cuts in wages and pensions, the increase in labour taxes, the increase in precariousness and unemployment and the contraction of the economy have accentuated this inequality over the past four years. We therefore face ourselves urgently. The new time we live is the time for repairing the humiliations and injustices that the workers have been subjected to. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The rate of poverty among workers is 10, 7%, even higher for women. That is, one in ten workers earns so little that he is poor and, even if he has a job, he cannot get out of the poverty line. That work does not allow us to escape poverty is an indignity that we cannot accept and that offends us. It is in this context, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place on the minimum wage. To the right, we already know: the country's economy must base itself on the competition for wages of misery. This was his rule and his obsession over the last four years, and in fact he managed to lower the average wage value of 300 € in Portugal. For three years, the right kept the minimum wage frozen, finding it normal to get a job was a condemnation of poverty. Pedro Passos Coelho, who is today sitting on the opposition bench, even said in summer 2013 when confronted with the proposal to raise the minimum wage, which - and I quote - "the most sensible measure when a country faces high levels of unemployment is to do the opposite ", given the example of Ireland, which had proposed to reduce the value of the minimum wage. After three years of nominal freezing and actual decline, on the eve of elections the previous government updated the minimum wage value to the levels at which it was supposed to have been already in 2011, partially financing it with social security funds. In its electoral programme last summer, the proposal was to keep it frozen. Fortunately, in the last elections, the country has freed itself from the right, its government and its programme. Today, the debate is another because it is another majority. For this reason, there are more than one million workers who can now count on a guarantee: your salary will rise in 2016 and will reach at least 600 € in this Legislation. By bringing together areas such as trade, industry, restoration and agriculture, it is more than one million people who will be justiceed, especially the younger ones who have stayed in the country and whose overwhelming majority today earns the minimum wage. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] We know there are those who don't want that to happen. Some spokesmen of the employers' confederations have razed in public square as if the values in question were a fortune. Regarding the increase in the minimum wage to €530 in 2016, the President of the Portuguese Industry Confederation said that it was a utopia and that it was very negative for the economy. You're not right! The increase in the minimum wage is a basic question of justice in a country with the greatest wage inequality in Europe, where an administrator of a company can earn in a month what the worker who makes that company run wins in seven or eight years. The increase in minimum wage is a human rights issue, violated daily by wage poverty. And they do not advance heartfelt vows of charity when people are denied what is due them to justice: a remuneration for their work that enables them to live with dignity. But the increase in the minimum wage is also a measure of more elementary economic wisdom, because it benefits the activities of micro and small enterprises, because they will gain the most positive effect on the increase in domestic demand. The idea that the problems of the economy and its productivity would be solved with low wages is not only a Soviet and small idea, it is a wrong idea and no future. In the past, the government echoed these views of some employers and used social consultation to exclude most workers from the most important decisions. contrary to what has happened in the past, no one will now cease to consider the consensus reached in social consultation. Neither Members of Parliament nor the Government shall resign themselves from their responsibilities, word and obligations, in particular the decision on the value of the minimum wage according to the minimums set on the left and entered in the Government Programme. As António Costa said, « nobody wants to transform social dialogue into a High House with veto over the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic ». For those who may not have understood, here is the reminder: the country today has a new majority. This majority exists in Parliament because it exists in the country, this majority has an agreement to interrupt the poverty cycle of the last few years, this majority has made it possible for a government and this government has a concrete commitment in its Programme: to increase the minimum wage to 600 € and to start doing so, with an increase of at least 5 % in 2016 and with the guarantee that on 1 January 2017 workers will receive at least 557 €. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] We will stay away, it is true, of the 791 € of Slovenia or of the 757 € of our neighbouring Spain, and no longer speak of the 1473 € of minimum wage in Germany, but we will have begun the greatest increase in the minimum wage in recent decades. And with that, we will not be bringing to the economy a cost or a difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u5	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. With this measure, we will not bring the economy a cost or a difficulty. We will be bringing to the economy a minimum of decency. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u7	Mr José Moura Soeiro, Mr. Members Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, João Oliveira, PCP, and João Galamba, PS, to request clarifications. Do you want to answer together or one by one?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u9	All right. You have the floor, then, for a request for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to tell Mr José Soeiro that he has brought to this House a very important issue, a subject with which we are very concerned. I wanted to start by denying Mr Deputy, telling him that I never — I repeat, never! — Dr Pedro Passos Coelho proposed the reduction of the national minimum wage. The truth is that it was the government led by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho who updated the national minimum wage! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What the honourable Member said from the rostrum was a set of reverses. But I will remind you, Mr, that the national minimum wage has been frozen since 2011. And it was frozen by a socialist government, which you now support! And this Government is speaking in a majority and is going to comply with the agreement, but I remind you, Mr President, that this freezing has been carried out in total disrespect for an agreement that had been concluded with the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u12	Therefore, I rest the truth by saying that the PSD/CDS-PP government was unable to update the national minimum wage while the troika was in Portugal, but the first measure that took as soon as the troika left the country was precisely that of updating and increasing. This is a concern that we have and which has been debated in the context of social dialogue, because that is where we understand that these matters should be discussed. It is when representatives of employers and workers are sitting at the table that need to discuss and correct these situations. Mr President, after the misgivings you have just said about this situation, I would therefore like to ask you what you really believe is the role of social dialogue in such an important matter as to improve family income if in order to ensure a better quality of life and a more dignified work for all. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u13	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Moura Soeiro, I would first of all like to welcome you from the political statement that you brought to the Assembly of the Republic on the subject of national minimum wage. This is, in fact, a determining matter and has to be framed in a more general objective of the valuation of wages. from the PCP side, that's how we assume it. It is true that the valuation of wages goes not only through the national minimum wage, but this is a decisive element in achieving that more general goal, which corresponds to an absolutely urgent need that we have in our country to change the way in which wealth is distributed. Today, we have a situation in our country where for every 100 € of national wealth created only 37, 8 € are distributed in wages. That is, in every 100 € of wealth there is a corresponding part of a little more than one third that is distributed in wages and in which the rest is distributed in incomes of the capital. We need to change this situation, we need to ensure that the distribution of wealth created in our country is done in a fairer and more relevant way from the point of view of wages. Moreover, what happened in 1975 was that 72 % of national wealth was distributed in wages. Today, we have an almost reverse situation, with a large proportion of capital income growing sharply in relation to the distribution of wages. Therefore, this objective of redistribution of wealth in a fairer way has to go through the general valuation of wages and it has to include the increase of national minimum wage. We know that over the years the increase in the national minimum wage was postponed, particularly the agreement reached in December 2006 almost eight years ago, so that the minimum wage increased in January 2011 to 500 € was then postponed. We also know what the practice was during the PSD government and the CDS, parties who for four years hid behind social consultation precisely to fail to comply with what was a government obligation. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, who has the competence to increase the minimum wage, is the Government. It may hear social consultation or not, but the obligation, the competence of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u15	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. The PSD and CDS-PP government did not take on this competence because they did not want to! We then put forward proposals in the Assembly of the Republic for the increase of the national minimum wage and, last Friday, we did so again. We have the electoral commitment to propose the increase of the national minimum wage to 600 € on 1 January 2016, so we have presented a draft resolution, which we discussed last Friday, recommending that the Government achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u17	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. That was our electoral commitment and we have already fulfilled it. We wanted to know, on the left side of the Block, what is your perspective on this matter. It has already made clear this prospect of the recovery of wages, but we would like to know the opinion of BE on this proposal in particular, especially on this argument that it is the social consultation that has to decide what is the responsibility of the government. What is the perspective of the Left Block on this urgent need to increase the national minimum wage?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u19	Even for a request for clarification, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to thank you for bringing this matter to the Assembly of the Republic. It is undoubtedly one of the most important issues in the legislature that now begins, because, and as I said well, if there is a new time with this new government, it reflects the idea that income recovery is an essential policy, not only for social reasons, but also, above all, for economic reasons. The minimum wage is basically what, as a community, we tell ourselves and ourselves about what the minimum level of dignity of work is and what idea we have of valuing work and the role of work in the organization of our labour relations. The minimum wage is not just a social issue, as I have said, but it is also an economic issue, because if there are workers who have a higher impact on the economy and with less cost in the external imbalance, it is exactly those who earn the minimum wage. But the minimum wage also has a general component not only of social justice and of valuing work, but also a component in gender issues, because it is the women who today have a greater weight in the minimum wage. Therefore, raising the minimum wage is also a way of valuing and qualifying the remuneration of women's work. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Mr President, this is above all a new time, because we, the Socialist Party, and I think that the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens also refuse to say something that has been said too often in recent years, which is a certain idea of competitiveness, in which what we say, in the present and in the future, is that Portugal has failed and that the idea of having an economy in line with European wage levels is another example of living above our possibilities. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes recently said that the former Prime Minister did not propose a reduction in the minimum wage. No, he didn't, but he defended here that it was the right thing to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u21	No, sir! No, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u22	... and that in a context of rising unemployment the reduction of wages was the best way to protect employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is written, recorded and recorded. If they don't remember anymore, we'll have no problem sending them the tape, because it's public.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u23	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u24	The minimum wage is a sign that the economy will not be the economy of the past, but the economy of the future, in which work has a fundamental role to play, also in a vision of modern competitiveness and now European. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you what is the key role of the Government in fixing the minimum wage and what is the role of the Block in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u25	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put to me and would like to remind Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of what was said by former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho on 6 March 2013 in this Parliament. It is an exact quote to which I shall make: « The most sensible measure to combat unemployment would be to lower the minimum wage » — Pedro Passos Coelho, March 6, 2013, in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests.]] I know, Mrs Deputy, that today there is a kind of smoke curtain on the positions of the PSD and the CDS-PP, which, in fact, seek to hide in the social consultation, in the expectation of vetoing what is a commitment of the majority that exists in the country and of the majority that exists in Parliament. But this commitment will be honored by the Members of this House, as it will be honored by the Government, who has entered this commitment into its Programme. The national minimum wage will rise. There is a commitment that it reaches 600 € in this legislature, and that commitment will be honored. Therefore, we will not wait for consensus in social dialogue, even if we are attentive and open to the consensus that can be created in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u27	That's what we're gonna see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u28	I would also like to say, in reply to the honourable Members. Mr. João Galamba and Mr. João Oliveira, which is a fact that austerity policy in recent years has been a workpiece. And it was a work bulge due to the increase in unpaid working time, the cuts in wages, the increase in labour taxes, the precariousization and informalization of labour relations, which were also a way of reducing labour earnings, reducing wages, and of course that the precariousness and workers covered by the minimum wage are also concentrated all the other inequalities that penalize women more, which penalise those who have less qualifications and penalise more young people. That is why we have this immense responsibility to begin now to interrupt, to break, to end this cycle of impoverishment, which was austerity policy, with this cycle of persecution of work and its income, which was austerity policy. And I'm right, ladies. Mr. João Galamba and Mr. João Oliveira, we will all be aware of this responsibility and urgency.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u29	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party made a very important discovery this week, and the discovery site was apparently Brussels last Monday. It was on that day that Mário Centeno, the Minister of Finance, stressed that the deficit target below 3% of GDP this year is — and I quote — « very important for the country ». Well, Minister, welcome to reality. In fact, the deficit target below 3% of GDP for this year is very important for the country. The achievement of this goal is indeed crucial for Portugal. But you cannot help but see, today, with much irony, that the PS, after having passed, not months, but years, denying the importance of the deficit and the fulfilment of goals, years to say that what was needed was to negotiate better, that if the Portuguese Government knew how to beat the goals soon they would change and that nothing that was being done was necessary and, more, after many and many accusations, that all the problems had to be reduced to the obsession of the Portuguese government with the deficit, it is extraordinary that the PS will now come in a way until the time comes, saying that, after all, the achievement of the deficit goal is very important for the country! Of course it is! Of course it is! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] As surely — and it is good not to forget — it was also very important for the country, for the Portuguese, for the very real life of all of us, contrary to what was said, and not for the markets, that the Portuguese deficit passed from 11, 2 %, in which the previous Government had found it, below 3 %, which we are now very, but very close to reaching. But perhaps the Socialist Party, which has just begun in this discovery of the importance of meeting the goals, commitments and their real impact on the lives of Portuguese people, can also take advantage of and explain, for example, to their CFP partners because it is very different in fact to have a deficit of 3 % or lower of a deficit of 4 % or 5 %, and that this is not in any way indifferent to the lives of many of us. It also seems that, indeed, it has been a long time since BE classified compliance with the Budget Treaty of — and I quote — blackmail. It was permanent austerity. Well, it seems that with António Costa blackmail has become even captivating... they are, in fact, new and very captivating times! But perhaps this helps to realize, finally, now that the electoral campaign periods have passed and that we all live again in reality, that the choice, contrary to what has often been said, has never been, it is not between those who want and those who do not want austerity; on the contrary, it is among those who defend a gradual path, a realistic path that can lead to a Portugal in which there is no longer any need to come a foreign troika to impose austerity and those who prefer a radical path that, in fact, promises a fantastic today but which forgets tomorrow and which is very expensive in the future. Returning to compliance with the deficit, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we all realize that you are dying for making an excuse not to comply, for having a good excuse not to comply, but that excuse simply does not exist and the UTAO report, which we had last week, proves that. The report says what we have known a long time ago, that is, that this path is difficult, it is demanding, it is rigorous, but it is possible. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to continue to be cautious, to continue to have demands, to be cautious and not to spoil the way. We are now just over 20 days away from fulfilling this objective. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know, some more time, others since Monday, that the paths of reality are never easy. The reality is always made of difficult choices, but of possible choices. Maintaining, for example, Portugal's international credibility right now is a choice; not to reverse structural changes and not to go back is another choice; to make income recovery forever is also a choice. But there are very important questions and there are ways to choose which then define the paths and choices to follow, and social dialogue is a good example of this. In social dialogue, there are basically two basic options, two paths that can be followed: the first is a path that I would say moderate, is the path of social dialogue, it is a path that gives due value to social consultation, because it realizes that social consultation is a unique space where workers, employers and where consensuss can be reached that are constructive; and there is an option that is radical, that is the choice of the street, the demonstrations, the strikes. In Portugal, this radical option is known as the CGTP option. And the PS is beginning to give signs in Parliament that I believe are something worrying. The truth is that the signs that have already been given to reverse the 2012 Social Concertation Agreement, for example the revision of labour legislation, are in practice by the non-value and non-space that give social consultation, signs of the most radical option, of such option CGTP, of the option to empty social concertation. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear: we all know that social dialogue is not a high chamber. No one here wants social consultation to be a high chamber. We all know that the government decides, but the question is very simple: if the government has already decided everything, if the government has already done everything and if all it will do is communicate to social dialogue what will happen, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us have the courage to say that there is no social consultation anymore. What is a government press conference before workers and employers, and that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the radical option.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u31	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u32	Mr. President, I'll finish. And I would end by saying that this radical option, this CGTP option is not the path that Portugal needs; on the contrary, it is all that Portugal did not need right now. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u33	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u34	Mr President, in my first speech in the Chamber I congratulate and congratulate all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Cecilia Meireles here made an important memory exercise, which allowed all Portuguese who listen to us and all Members in this Chamber to remember the governance of the PSD and the CDS: a government that proposed to reduce the debt and increase it; a government that proposed to reduce the deficit and that increased it, discounting extraordinary revenues;... [[PSD laughter.]] ... a government that proposed to reduce and increase unemployment; a government that deteriorated all the country's social and economic indicators. The honourable Member is now proposing a memory exercise. Welcome to this memory exercise! It is an exercise of memory that, of course, the Portuguese will continue to remember for many and good years for bad reasons. In fact, it is very important to talk about the recovery of credibility, but the recovery of credibility is not done with some of the news we have recently heard: it is not said that we will return 35% of the supertax before the elections and then we will know that we will have 0% of the refund of overtax after the elections; it is not done, as we have recently learned, by negotiating increases in tolls in A3 and A4, so capa, sorrelfa, on the backs of the Portuguese and on the backs of the citizens, in this case of the district of Porto, measures not presented and not placed on a point in your electoral programme. Nor is it serious to mention, in the context of social consultation, some of the measures we have heard here. In fact, it is amazing that the PSD and the CDS, that Mrs Cecilia Meireles, representing the one who is the inheritance of the right in this area, come here to speak of social consultation. The former Government, the PSD and the CDS blocked social dialogue, cut social dialogue, imposed all measures against the country, against trade unions, against workers, against the confederations, against the Constitutional Court, against all democratic institutions in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u36	You have cut the dialog. It is therefore very important that we understand whether for the CDS the negotiation of the minimum wage in the context of social consultation should or should not be done for reasons that are related to the demonstration that we can have an alternative which returns wages to Portuguese, increases workers' incomes and shows that the policy, which has been followed so far, has been a wrong policy and does not meet the minimums for the return of rights to Portuguese workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u37	Mr President, on behalf of all Members, I thank you for your compliments. In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u38	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro on his speech, even more so as, like me, a Member of the district of Porto. The honourable Member has welcomed me for having a memory exercise. Mr President, it has not been difficult, even because the memory is not very far away. I was told by the honourable Member that it will be difficult for your Government or the Portuguese to forget, and I remembered that it might be necessary, first, because it is the honourable Members. Members who seem somewhat or as forgotten and then, in fact, because the former government when it took office did not need to be reminded by the PS of anything, because there were officials from three international institutions who each day in the ministries had to remember the commitments that you had made. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] So this became a daily event and there was no need to remember. Now for the PS government, not having these officials — and fortunately for all of us and also for you, of course — there is a need to remind you now, since you seem quite forgotten (and I do it with some joy) that it is not worth hearing someone recognize something we have been saying for so long: it is that, in fact, the achievement of the deficit targets is important, contrary to what you have often said, i.e. that this was a matter of the markets, that it was against people... It is not! This helps people's real and concrete lives. I am going directly to the social dialogue and to the question you asked me about whether I think that the negotiation of the minimum wage should be done in social consultation, Mr President, of course I think! You do not seem to find them, because either one of them is going to be negotiated at the heart of social dialogue, and that seems to me very well, either on the national minimum wage, or on any other matter of the working forum, and not only, or then the government has already decided everything. And if everything is already decided, as we have already heard today, I will return the question again: but then what are we going to do about social consultation? Mr President, you are only negotiating something when it is not yet fully decided and closed. If it is already decided and closed, there is no negotiation; it has to do with the essence of things. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u39	For a political statement, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What's happening in TAP is no foreign investment, it's a loot! The famous fresh money injected into the company is being squeezed from TAP itself! Up to EUR 10 million — this shame is underlined: EUR 10 million! — that the private consortium paid the TAP for it with the 10 million that are given to the Baraqueiro, of Humberto Pedrosa, offered by the office of Sergio Monteiro on 10 August. Less than 24 hours after the infamous episode of the signing of the contract for the sale of TAP at the headquarters of the Parpublica, David Neeleman explains, for whom he had doubts, who sends and announces that the order of the new A350 planes — with the special conditions he had — is void and will be exchanged by other models, in this case the A330, more favourable to private consortium strategies, and that thus arrive several months after the initial deadline. The contractual position is granted. Ask yourself: Who wins? More recently, it refers to the sale of the TAP reduced buildings at Lisbon airport, either by lease-back financial operation, or even by alienation with the exit of a set of activities and services. The so-called capital cash would thus mean a framework of operational precariousness, accelerating the risks of definitive relocation of the bulk of maintenance and engineering and abandonment of handling and SPdH / Groundforce. Some days ago, Fernando Pinto, public-private manager of TAP, said the consortium had put 180 million euros in the company. It did not explain that the money comes from the TAP creditors, who were and continue to be TAP creditors, but this time with guarantees from the State, who have always been denied to the public TAP. But we'll still be back on that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u42	For years, they have propagated the privatization of TAP with professions of faith about its future, about our TAP, about the quality of the service always safeguarded, about the identity of the company to connect Portugal and the Portuguese to the world. They both swore and knocked on their chest and were so quickly denied! Even a month has passed and such private interests have already shown what they come to. They announce the application of a typical service model of the low cost companies; they announce that TAP will start charging for meals served on board; they announce, and they already apply, the imposition of a supertax of "good parties" to increase air tickets at this time, only because they can; however, the future abandonment of long-distance air connections to the city of Porto is also announced; and the already admitted pilgrim scenario of a kind of subcontracting of the TAP at low cost for national or medium-curricular flights. This is the strongest TAP we've ever been promised! What future is reserved for PGA Portuguese Airlines and its workers? In fact, what future is reserved for such redundancies in the TAP, that the air carriers of privatization brand as a threat if the TAP were public? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have always stated that the privatization of TAP, from a political and strategic point of view, was and is a criminal decision in relation to the national interest. in this case, the process that was carried out has the aggravating that has been conducted in flagrant violation of law and constitution. According to what came to the public on October 21, Passos Coelho and Sérgio Monteiro meet with the TAP bank creditors. The following day, more than two weeks after the legislative elections, the resolution of the Council of Ministers which, in practice, attributed a public guarantee to the TAP's debt, safeguarding the position of banks and private interests that took over the company. on that same day, the CFP denounced this maneuver and stressed that the government would have to be held responsible for any consequences for the State resulting from this decision. Less than a week later, the Government ceases its functions and Sergio Monteiro declares himself enthusiastic about his appointment for the sale of the New Bank, which, coincidentally or not, is one of the TAP's creditors with whom he had met. The Government that cancelled the privatisation of TAP in 2012, claiming that the buyer did not have the necessary bank guarantees for TAP's debt, was the same government that secured that debt to the new buyer in 2015 without any cost to the new buyer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u43	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u44	The State has thus assumed a value of EUR 766, EUR 7 million of contingent debt, contrary to the provisions of the specification, materially changing the conditions of the invitation to tender, already in direct sale within 24 hours, without the authorization of the Assembly of the Republic and without any prior control.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u46	In the meantime, with the Government already resigned and in mere managerial functions, a new resolution of the Council of Ministers orders that the Parpublica celebrate with the Gateway Group the conclusion of the sale of TAP, approving the minute of the privatisation agreement and determining immediate effects on the decision. A government that had already made politically illegitimate decisions now went beyond the constitutionally established limits to its own action, seeking to significantly limit the political decision-making powers of the future government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what this process is setting up is a real scandal that has advanced illegality and has to be stopped once and for all. We cannot deal with a logic of consummated facts. The last few days have brought new and powerful arguments to the fight against privatization, confirmed warnings that the CFP has always been making, but they also show that there are real possibilities for saving the TAP rather than leaving it to control these interests and these strategies. The CFP points out that there are all political, economic, legal reasons to cancel and immediately reverse this privatisation without any compensation as an illegal act which has been and also reaffirms that, according to the political positions taken by the different parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, the conditions to cancel and reverse this privatisation are met. Without prejudice to the indispensable and unacceptable intervention that the current Government will have the responsibility to assume, the CFP will continue its coherent, committed intervention, which has been developing over the years. in this sense, we will present to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works the proposal that the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure be heard so that this House will have the point of the situation and the debate on this strategic issue for our economy and for national sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President. — Mr Bruno Dias, you have signed up for clarification. Deputies Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP, and João Paulo Correia, of the PS. Since Mr Bruno Dias reports that he is responding together, he has already spoken on behalf of Mr Heitor de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u47	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, at the time when the TAP sales and reprivatization process is already taking its first steps and we can all verify the extremely negative impact this process is already having on the Portuguese, I believe that this intervention could not be more timely and therefore I would like to begin by congratulating you. In accordance with the essential content of its intervention, I believe that there are some matters worth bringing to the colloquium to be better explained by the fact that not only are we watching a completely unacceptable public bag of safes and public enterprises to deliver them to the private sector, but also because we have already, in particular, the practical expression of what is the new policy that guides the old administration of TAP, which, though incredible as it may seem, remains the administration that is in front of the retrievised company. The questions I would like to raise basically relate to the strategic direction of the new administration and, on the other hand, to the policy that this company is already practising in terms of prices for the public transport service it offers. With regard to strategic issues, the decree-law published on 24 December 2014 — it will therefore take a year — says in its Article 4. the, which constitute criteria for selecting the acquisition intentions of the company, among other things, « the presentation of an appropriate strategic project, with a view to promoting the growth of the TAP, with respect to the fulfilment of the objectives outlined by the Government (... ) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u48	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u49	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to ask if anyone knows the strategic project, if anyone has ever seen it and whether or not it has to do with the objectives outlined by the privates and they impose it on the government. Very quickly, Mr President — and I thank you for your kindness —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u50	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u51	... the second question refers to the increase in prices imposed by this TAP administration on tariffs with the argument that it is a tariff affecting a large influx of passengers at this time of year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u52	Mr. Deputies, you have to finish, even with my kindness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u53	Exactly one of the strategic problems of this company is to serve the Portuguese diaspora in its connections with the mainland. I wonder if the application of this rate does not constitute a disincentive for this diaspora to maintain a relationship with our country and to avoid this possibility of visit and relationship with our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have received Mr Luís Leite Ramos from the Bureau to ask for clarifications, I inform you that Mr Bruno Dias will respond jointly to each of the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Thus, to ask for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u55	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, there are matters that deserve a very simple explanation and you have mixed everything here. I understand that, as in the management of the privatization of TAP, the Portuguese Communist Party is not here trying to put the theme of TAP in a hurry. Let us hope for the Socialist Party's response, which is such a party that, when it is in opposition, it does not want to privatize but, when it is in government, says history, has always wanted to privatize. We will see if, on this matter, management is so disillusioned or not. But, honourable Member, as I said, it is not worth mixing everything. Timelimits for ticket issuance have existed for decades, it is common practice in all airlines in the world; charge on services, such as baggage payment, which did not exist in the past and will become existing—if you do not know, it remains with this information, it was entitled to the piece concept or 30 kg and now it will pay for baggage. They are normal management models for adapting company management to the need and demand. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But you, who defend the model that the state should manage everything and companies have no freedom to manage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u56	Let go of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u57	... only they cannot answer the question of how everything is paid, how we protect the supreme interest of having a flag company that has to be, in fact, greater and has all the conditions to be greater, how we solve the problem of the company's cash emergency, assumed by the company, assumed by the company's assessments and by all the data that Mr Bruno Dias knows, because so many times here he says there is a deficit, that there is a damage to Maintenance... In fact, he could ask his new partner how this Brazilian Maintenance business was done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u58	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u59	I'm going to distribute a note from a newspaper saying that the Ministry of Finance has not authorized this purchase. Perhaps it was time to ask your partner how such a bad business happened to date next to the Ministry of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u61	But the honourable Member has already forgotten all that. The one who was a party to the attack pact, now, is a partner of the animation. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u62	Attention to your time, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u63	Mr Bruno Dias now says something that should be corrected. It is because any intervention within European rules presupposes redundancies, it presupposes the restructuring of the company. What is the Communist Party’s option if that happens? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u64	The Communist Party has to say here today what is the model it defends, who pays the layoffs of the workers, what is the consequence for the company if it has to make a restructuring, reduce routes, reduce personnel, lose business opportunities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u65	You have to justify the negotiations you've been doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u66	...and no longer a fundamental element for the exports of the country. It's just you can't come here and put everything in the same bag.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u67	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u68	You have to say the management model you want, which is the TAP you want, who pays, who fires, who pays the redundancies you will need to make, who pays the TAP damage. The honourable Member is making a single attempt: to maintain the power of the unions. That's too little for the TAP we want, for the TAP we need. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u69	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am grateful for the questions put by Mr Heitor de Sousa. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I would like to make only one small memory exercise: you were dismissed from the government a short time ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u71	Dismissed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u72	...but they've run the country for more than four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u73	With regard to redundancies in the TAP, when Mr Hélder Amaral asks who he is paying, I would like him to think of the threat of redundancies that is being made to the workers in the current framework that you caused and provoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u75	We already know that the CDS always has many difficulties in shouldering responsibility. This was the case in the Ministry of Defence, with the contracts we later discovered in relation to submarines ; this is what happened in the TAP, with the Brazilian Maintenance, which you pushed with the belly and left the situation at the point at which it arrived. We already know this very well, but someone needs to remember the responsibilities that you have assumed in the previous government and the concrete consequences of what you have decided. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is because when we ask who pays the costs of the TAP, I even give Mr time to tell me how many euros the State has put in the TAP for the past 18 years. How many? Not a penny, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u76	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u77	The State sought billions of euros in discounts from workers and the company, in contributions to social security, being the largest Portuguese net exporter and did not give one cent to the company. The question is, therefore, who pays the contingent debts that the TAP has, which are now insured by the State but which were never insured when the TAP was public. So you, in the Council of Ministers, completely outside the law, without any prior control of the Court of Auditors, without authorization from the Assembly of the Republic, assume, two weeks after the elections, that the State gives guarantees to a contingent TAP debt that they have never previously given when the TAP was public? Who's paying, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u78	It's a shame! A scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u79	Mr Heitor de Sousa, I would like to thank you for your question and to remind you that, with regard to the old administration of TAP, which is the new public-private administration that spent the same week of the public to the private and the private to the public and now appears again in the public—they say that it was overdue, but we even have doubts—that the right-wing managers have done in relation to the TAP and that we are now here denouncing, we must bring here the urgent lack of transparency of the entire process. As regards this resolution of the Council of Ministers which announces and approves the amendment of a direct sale contract, amending the material conditions of an invitation to tender without the previous competitors being aware, with an annex which is secret and which no one knows so far, it is appropriate to ask the honourable Members too. Members of the CDS who are paying TAP and the country the costs that this operation alone has had for the company and for the national interest to date. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u80	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u81	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, the privatisation of TAP was one of the most cloudy, less transparent and most damaging processes of public interest by the former PSD/CDS Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u83	From the outset the Socialist Party has challenged this process of privatization of TAP. The PS has always defended that this strategic company for the country continues mostly in the hands of the state. What the PSD/CDS government did was use TAP for political confrontation in the national political scenario and here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u84	It's in the Memorandum of Understanding!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u85	The former government negotiated with the consortium that bought TAP by hiding information, ignored very important data, and at the moment we know that this process of privatisation of TAP has dead angles. We learned a few days ago that the consortium that bought TAP weighed to end long-run flights at Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, an unknown data before the elections, was denounced after the elections and had political coverage by the previous PSD/CDS government. Mr President, who guarantees that there are no other angles dead in that annex which has not yet been made public and that public opinion and political parties in Parliament do not know? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u86	The political position of the PS now in the government is the same: we argue that the TAP should be mostly in the hands of the Portuguese State and it is also known that the new government has already started negotiations to reverse this process by transferring most of the capital to the hands of the State. I ask you two questions: do you agree that this process of privatization of the TAP is a point on the ideological agenda of the previous PSD / CDS government, which tried to dismantle the public transport service, as happened at the TAP, CP Cargo, EMEF, and also at the Port Metro, CP, Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan? Do you agree or not that the previous PSD/CDS government did a favor to the winning consortium? It is that the risk of TAP's debt not being paid to banks was on the side of the State. Is this a favor to the buyer consortium or not? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u87	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u88	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement on a subject that is very expensive to the Communist Party, that of the nationalization of TAP. It was a very interesting statement, because at the same time it was a reaffirmation of the ideological principles that guide the action of the Communist Party, in particular the rejection of the private initiative, and a warning to the Socialist Party, in addition to the example of those warnings that in recent days the Secretary-General and some top leaders of the Communist Party have made, i.e. a warning to the Socialist Party on how this matter should be managed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u89	Get out of your house and leave the other people's house!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u90	But let's talk about the renationalization of TAP. The CFP wants TAP to be genuinely, purely public again, but I insist on the questions that Mr Hélder Amaral has asked and to which he has not answered. What is the PCP project for TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u91	You haven't found out yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u92	What is the project? at this time when the Communist Party supports and supports the government Parliament, I ask you: how will the CFP save a company that has a debt of EUR 1 billion and negative capital of EUR 500 million? How does the PCP plan to inject taxpayers' money into this company? With or without the Brussels agreement? I know that the CFP for a long time has been saying that the case of the Polish LOT aviation company was a good example to follow, but I would remind the honourable Member of the consequences of this case: 800 workers have been fired and 24 routes have been removed. And, even more recently, another company, a Scandinavian company, which fired 2000 workers, sold some of the assets and reduced means and routes. I wonder whether the CFP is really interested in defending workers, whether the CFP is really interested in maintaining the TAP as a flag company in Portugal, whether the CFP is even interested in keeping the TAP as a national company, or whether it wants to turn the TAP into a « TAPine", which is the one that has been proposed by the CFP in this regard. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u93	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u94	Mr President, on the part of the CFP, we would like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies João Paulo Correia and Luís Leite Ramos. In fact, there is one point that has to be reaffirmed here, which has to do with the privatisation of TAP. We are facing a national scandal that has to have a final point once and for all. This is a very expensive matter for the CFP and it is already getting expensive for the country. [[PCP and PS applause.]] And it's going to be even more expensive to the country if nothing is done, because the action that the PSD and CDS gentlemen have stopped in relation to TAP has been too serious, and it's too serious for what we're discussing here. In front of what you're saying. Members of the PSD and the CDS say, it is clear that they still have the same references and the same references six months ago, the last time we discussed this in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u95	You have to put that question to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u96	It is that six months ago we brought our proposals, the questions concerning the future of the company and the honourable Members, who are now asking which are at the time discussing them and voting against them, or we thought that you had discussed them, but they were not paying attention to the debate they were in. As for what you are talking about now, about nationalization, we need to clarify, because there is a mistake, Mr President. Members: we are not talking about nationalizing a company, because it has been illegally privatized and therefore the sale contract is illegal, it is unconstitutional, it is not valid and, as such, the process has to be stopped,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u97	What about next? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u98	... once you gentlemen, through the silence of the night,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... make a sale in context completely outside the law. And, no matter how funny this has been for Mr. Prime Minister dismissed and current Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho,... [[PSD protests.]] ...the truth is that the situation in which you put the TAP is too bad and too serious for the laughter that you give, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho. That is why we say that what we are talking about today is to cancel and reverse a case that was illegal because the dismissed government could not have done what it did.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u99	And what do you do next? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u100	We assume, in relation to the Socialist Party, as it is also known, that we have differences as to the future of the company and the solutions to be adopted for the future, that we have divergent opinions on the issues of private capital in the company, but there is one issue in which, for a very short time, all of us on this side have been clearly consensual, which is that this ruinous business has to be canceled and stopped. I repeat, this ruinous business has to be canceled and stopped, which means that those who have taken over the company or, at least, are sending in today have to be shown the street door. This simply has to happen: the door of the street must be shown to those gentlemen, as the door of the street has been shown to the government that has been dismissed! It's very simple, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It's very simple! We must effectively defend the future of the company. The project that the PCP has for the TAP is very clear, was presented in this House and implies, in fact, processes that have to do with strengthening the company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u101	You have to do the right thing to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u102	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, the project that the CFP has for the TAP is very clear, was presented in this House and implies, in fact, processes that have to do with strengthening the company, without the threats that you have been branding for years, about what happens in a public TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u103	They are not threats, Mr President, they are facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u104	... necessarily have to happen, and this is our concern. It is that these threats appear today on the horizon, now that TAP is in the hands and under the control of those private interests, and that is what we cannot let happen. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u105	For a political declaration, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party has inaugurated its functions by creating a climate of instability in the education system,... [[PCP laughter.]] ... moving forward without direction, hasty and impenetrable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u108	The tow of the parties on the radical left, Block of Left and PCP, the Socialist Party changed the rules of the game after the school year began, almost at the end of a school period, without alternatives, without self-thinking and with a Minister of Education hidden on 5 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u110	They removed the evidence from 1. the cycle of basic education, without reflection, had not defended it in its Election Program, without arguing with each other, without public debate, without looking at the results, without more. I even have my doubts about whether the Members of the Socialist Party have read the Government's programme that they adopted last week and who prays beautiful words that have nothing to do with what has happened. They say on page 105 that they want « to reassess examinations in the first years of schooling », but how can they reassess something that they have already eliminated? Oh, my God! How? Oh, my God! And what does the Minister of Education think about this? Will the Minister call Mrs Catarina Martins to ask for her opinion? Or does the Minister of Education accept the role of civil registry conservative, who attests to the marriage of the PS to the left radicals, and notary, who signs harsh and destabilizing measures, of Jerome and Martins? Oh, my God! And now, after the final evidence has been removed, as the Socialist Government will do to monitor the learnings in 1. the cycle? Yes, because one thing is to suddenly end the exams, another thing is to measure, with comparable and reliable instruments, at national level. on this path, it will be worth realizing whether the PS intends to maintain the commitment of transparency and information to parents, with the PortalInfoescolas. Or are we going to return to the bad example of Minister Augusto Santos Silva, in education, who refused to provide data for the ranking, because he also wanted the information very well hidden from everyone? Oh, my God! More: if, in fact, they want to maintain transparency and information, how can they guarantee it without monitoring, without examinations? Oh, my God! Just a little bit of detail, sirs. Members, this is just one thing: how will they design public education policies without knowing school results? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] And how will we be able to compare ourselves internationally with other countries, in programs such as the OECD PISA, if no one evaluates anything, if no one identifies the difficulties and no one can improve methodologies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u111	They didn't read, they didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u112	Another intriguing thing: how do you promote success in school and protect students with difficulties if you don't know who they are, why is there no longer any way to know who they are? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid or backward. It seems that, from now on, it may be more important for the current government to contribute to the numbers than to ensure that students know the subjects. I mean to tell the Socialist Party that it's still on time. It is a long time to realize that it is not enough to look, it is necessary to know; that promoting success in school is due to the requirement, it does not pass through the administrative transition of students who have not learned, just to make the beautiful in the statistics. I also ask the PS whether we will have to hear in the FENPROF in Mário Nogueira, who treats the Minister of Education as the « young Tiago », the voice of command of this government. It is that no one has yet heard an authorized voice from the government speaking in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u113	You guys have horrible nightmares!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u114	What about the CAPC? They removed the evidence, in a monumental reel! The evidence created by the Socialist Party itself and its Minister Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues is over, of course! They once again deny your own past, again introduce instability and want to return to facilitating teaching to meet the negative coalition. We know that it is the fallacy of the Socialist Party to reduce failure administratively and opt for the easier, more demagogic, but even more populist path. I saw, with apprehension, a cover of a weekend newspaper saying: « PS rarasa educational wager of the previous government ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u115	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u116	Why? Why don't you like the growing autonomy of schools? Why does he disagree with the decentralization that the previous government has promoted? Why does it not like the approach of the school to regional living communities, such as companies or political institutes?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u117	Is that in Sweden? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u118	Why do you not want to accept that the decrease in failure and dropout in school goes through differentiated school courses, such as vocational? Why? [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] I can only think that the Socialist Party has annulled its convictions, made a map of its history, of the results that are visible today and gives rise to a policy of land burned down in education. Removing examinations, removing evidence, hiding measures only because they were taken by a government that did not support it is a small exercise that bans mediocrity, because it does not identify it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u119	You have to do the right thing to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u120	It is this mediocrity that is being embraced by the Socialist Party, without shame and without memory. But let me say the following, responding to the united left: why a student does a driving exam to get the letter is to be able to move safely on the roads without putting lives in danger.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u121	How many tests did you do? She's a university teacher!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u122	Let me have a caricature: happy surgeons who laugh at the laughs, because they didn't do any evidence, but who put patients at risk in the operating block, can be a good argument...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u123	Don't insult the surgeons!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u124	... for any part of Mrs Catarina Martins,... [[BE's protests.]] ... but it will never be a good warning for the country we want and for the education that will distinguish us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u125	Mrs Nilza de Sena, the Bureau records entries of four Mrs. Members to request clarification, so I ask you to tell us how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u126	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u127	So you have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u128	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, I do not know whether the 4th was taken. the class. Did he? Don't tell me you had a mediocre and a facilitator teaching that brought you here? I just didn't have it and I got here! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] I believe that no one born into democracy took the 4th. the class and, however, we have capable and qualified people in this country. It wasn't that way that your education was lame. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u129	The truth is that we have now come to claim instability and decisions taken by the suspect, without studies that could substantiate them... It is worth recalling that it was the right-wing government that re-introduced the examinations of the 4. the class, without any study to demonstrate why they were necessary - against, in fact, most European countries that no longer have examinations of 4. the class — without any scientific basis, just for a purely ideological reason, I repeat, purely ideological. And it was for various purely ideological reasons that the right government was creating instability in public school, it was destroying public school. But now, on the CAPC, let me say that she was so good or so bad that it was her government, as the last management act, that it suspended the proof of the teachers, even before this Parliament finally ended it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But on instability, I will say that instability, perhaps, is what students, teachers, the educational community feel at every beginning of the school year. Each beginning of the school year is a new hell: there are no assistants, there are no teachers, there are no conditions, sometimes there are only containers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But every year the government transfers 160 million to private schools and schools. While in the public network there are schools "a half gas", overcrowded classes, teachers with zero hours, schools that are not functioning in the capacities that should, each year, next to, are running schools financed with public money...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u130	You have to do the right thing to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that a class of a private college is worth more to the previous government than a class of a public college.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u132	By the way, it's worth less, see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u133	Our taxes, thanks to the right-wing government, financed more the private classes than the public classes. Mr President, allow me to say the following: it is certainly not for freedom of choice because, if so, students could have artistic education as it should be, contrary to what they have done, which has been destroyed - it is certainly not by efficiency or by management, because this is a waste of public resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u134	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u135	What, then, was the reason for funding private schools? Was it a jackpot? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u136	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u137	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, I begin by telling you that the Socialist Party has the utmost respect for students, teachers, the educational system and, above all, for this sovereignty. It is an autonomous body of government, it is a legislative body which has the power to legislate on educational matters, and that is what it did. Do so with that respect and with that separation of powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would like to tell you that, with these legislative initiatives, we did not introduce any instability. But let me tell you about instability and mediocrity. Instability was what they did when they changed the curriculum matrix, without support for any technical-scientific study. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have changed it with a single objective: to delete, head, 10 000 hours and to put 12 000 teachers on unemployment. This was the objective, it was not to improve the curriculum or program of the students. Instability was what happened over these four and a half years, when it systematically disinvested in public school, Budgeting behind Budget. The last study by Education at a Glance says there was a 14% fall in investment and in public school that leaves us very badly placed at OECD level. That is the instability we do not want, that is the failure we do not want! Instability was also what was done at the level of school retention. After years of marked improvement in school success in recent years, both basic and secondary, we again increased levels of dropout and retention. That, yes, is mediocrity, that, yes, is backward. The same with regard to special and artistic teachings, where real dramas were created in families who lost support and support. There was a cut for 7000 special education students and the eligible 16 107 to 9146 were reduced. That, yes, is mediocrity, that, yes, is instability! The same in adult teaching, when the New Opportunities are dismantled, certified and evaluated by Roberto Carneiro and the Catholic University, and replaced by the void.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u138	You will have to do your best to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u139	That, yes, was successive instability and mediocrity! What no longer happens with the elimination of the examinations of the 4. the year, exams, these, made early, premature and that made us an isolated case at the level of the countries accompanying us in Europe and the OECD. For all this, it is with pride that the Socialist Party wants to start a new time, a time of bet on education, which is the passport for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u140	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u141	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, the curriculum of the previous government on education is so good, so good, that the only thing I had to bring here was the baffling propaganda of exams as an instrument of demand. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Madam Member, the requirement is to call on the Ministry of Education and the Government to assume their responsibilities. The requirement is not to chum kids in schools because they don't answer well, in an hour, to one or the other question. That, yes, it's the facilitation, it's the lead. Requirement is to invest in school: more teachers, co-adjuvant teachers, continuous evaluation, compliance with the Basics Law of the Educational System, more material and human resources, assume political responsibilities for the breakdown in which the PSD and CDS left the public school. That was demand and rigour. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Facilitation is a lead stamp precisely in those who often have more difficulty in responding, taking into account the economic and financial situations, also the result of this government's policy. Madam Member, most of the Members here will most likely say that the majority will not have taken 4. the class, taking into account that the examinations of 4. the class was abolished after April 1974. [[PSD protests.]] The country still exists, Mrs. Member! How can there still be a country, given that about 230 Members, who have been in this House for so many years, have not examined 4. the class — look at it! — as well as a large number of our country’s professionals? Oh, my God! There was no comparison before? There was no quality in teaching? On the contrary, it has been degrading, precisely because of what the PSD and CDS have done in recent years in the country. The honourable Member may have taken the time to say and suggest how, in particular, the problems of wages, which have not paid, in specialized artistic education, the special educational needs and the placement of teachers to respond to these problems, the lack of teachers, the tips in higher education, finally, a set of problems that the PSD and the CDS have not only left persisting as they did to worsen in the Portuguese public education system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u142	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u143	Therefore, honourable Member, more than the statement of the requirement, there was a need for policy to meet the requirement. The former Government wasted all its time in front of the Ministry of Education. Let's hope he's still going in time to fix his hand. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u144	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u145	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, I have listened carefully to your words. Indeed, at the initiative of the CFP and the Left Block, the first day of the Socialist Party's Government was inaugurated with the approval of the elimination of the 4. year. The discussion on this subject has deserved us here in plenary, more, less, 20 minutes. We do not know either the parents, the students, the teachers or the directors, or what is now expected, until this matter was included in the terms of the PS Government Programme. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Will the measurement tests be introduced? If so, already this school year? Will they take place on the same dates in the school calendar for the testing of Mathematics and Portuguese? Will the typology of evidence be the same? Will they be classified? What tests will be done, following them? in the same way, it was also eliminated the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills for entry to the teaching career, in another 20 minutes. What happens to it, until the 2007 law is fulfilled, of the responsibility of the then and current government, we do not know. We do not know, nor do we know the teachers, until this matter was included in the terms of the PS Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u146	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u147	Meanwhile, and at the initiative of the Communist Party, another bill has already entered which aims to eliminate the examinations of the two. o is 3. the basic education cycles. As this matter does not appear in the PS Government Programme, nor so much of the joint position signed with either of the left parties is totally uncertain what will happen in this area for this year. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs Nilza de Sena, as I said, the rules are changing, but they are changing rapidly, without a vision we know from this new Minister of Education. Does it seem to you, then, that schools are finally living the stability time that Mrs Joana Mortagua was talking about? How do you see the guarantee of compulsory 12 years of successful schooling in these terms? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u148	In reply, Mrs Nilza de Seine has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u149	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put to me by the honourable Members. Deputies Joana Mortágua, Susana Amador, Miguel Tiago and Ana Rita Bessa. They allow me to address the parties on the left to say that, in fact, they were consistent with themselves and inconsistent with the country. I was just beginning to respond to Mrs Joana Mortágua, who made here a media “number”—well I see that it is very difficult to lose, in a week, habits of recent years! — we introduced the exams with the care of listening to many entities, many stakeholders; we did and read many studies; there was field work and it took us a long time to decide that this was the best choice because it was the one that best defended the students. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] But let me tell you that the Socialist Party, the tow of the PCP and the Left Block, have not heard anyone to remove these evidence. They didn't hear anybody! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] I would also like to reply to Mrs Susana Amador telling her that it was important for the PS to stop being bipolar when he is in opposition and tripolar when he is in government, with two crutches that do not serve him very well, with two crutches that show us precisely that he is given up to the speech of FENPROF and that he is given a speech from a union agenda. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u150	I would like to say to you, Madam Member, that the proof that you have introduced — and that you have forgotten — is not just a measure, it is not the elimination that best defends our students and our teaching. Why? Mrs. Member, you have already thought that a teacher, when he enters the system, is 40 years to prepare students, to prepare new generations. So, shouldn't we have the best in the system? Is it good, it's positive, that a civilian engineer can make calculation errors, because it has led to math tests? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u151	No. 4. the year? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u152	No. 4. the year? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u153	Is it good that a teacher can teach without being able to read or write correctly Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are very upset. It's normal they are. It is normal, because you know that your policy is totally out of the way, it is a policy that comes back.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u154	There are limits to nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u155	And it comes back with serious consequences, in a direction that should be of stability in an important area such as education. I'll finish by telling all the gentlemen. Members, but above all, to the Members. Members of the Socialist Party: they are still in time to change. When the wind blows just in one direction, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful, because it is very possible, not to say that it is true, that the tree is born tilted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u156	For a political declaration, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u157	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of a new legislation, it is important to understand the situation in which Portugal is today from a social, economic and financial point of view. It is important to know the starting point of this legislation, without illusions or false optimism, because it is from it that we can start a new path of hope for Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this triple dimension, I repeat, social, economic and financial, that we will have to look at the impact of public policies, the legislation that will be adopted in this House — of course, the next State budget — as well as government action. on the contrary, what characterized the right coalition, PSD and CDS-PP, in the previous legislation, shared in certain more orthodox and financial European circles, was the analysis of the Portuguese situation in the strict financial dimension. The deficit, the public debt and the bank, to a lesser extent, were the almost exclusive focus of monitoring national budgetary policies. We have no doubt that the financial component is a fundamental component of public policy. But to reduce them to this dimension is to forget what is essential, which are people, their freedom and their rights, their autonomy and their happiness. It is to forget how we organize ourselves, how we use natural resources, how we relate to each other, and how we maintain a relationship with the environment and biodiversity, which we have the responsibility to transmit to future generations. It is basically to forget the reason for being political, in the noble sense of the term. To adopt solely financial perspective prevents adequate analysis of public policies. A spending cut of EUR 50 million is, from a financial point of view, only that, a spending cut of EUR 50 million, but from a social point of view, it can mean completely different things. If it is to reduce energy expenditure in inefficient public buildings it is different; if it is to complement solidarity for the elderly, which, as it is known, is one of the fundamental tools to combat poverty among the elderly, it is something else. I didn't pick this number by chance. In the previous legislation more than 50 million euros were cut into this social benefit. contrary to what one wanted to believe in recent years, there are always options when it comes to cuts in public spending and choices that are made have different social consequences. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] Even from an economic point of view, the impact of the two measures is different. The PS is therefore committed, as is, in fact, well expressed in the Government Programme, to alter the paradigm of public policy analysis in Portugal, where it is relevant to look simultaneously at the social, economic and financial dimensions thereof and to understand that certain measures can be beneficial to some dimensions but harmful to others. Sometimes there is a conflict between the various objectives of the policy, and therefore the relative importance of each dimension needs to be taken into account. The PS has given and will increase importance to the social and economic components of public policies and not merely to its financial components. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to build an alternative of confidence for Portuguese and Portuguese we need to know the country. In the social dimension, unemployment, particularly young unemployment, continues at excessively high levels. The years of the troikae the policies of the former PSD Government / CDS-PP have brought an increase in the number of poor and the intensity of poverty that would be much greater were not the social benefits guaranteed through the State. Particularly worrying is poverty among young people. In the economic dimension, the willingness of the former Government to go beyond the troika and believe it in an expansionist austerity even led in 2012 to the greatest recession in recent decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u158	In 2011 it was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u159	Now the Product grows, but quite tenuously, below the European Union average, expecting an increase of 1,5 % in 2015 with a clear slowdown at the end of the year. There are still serious difficulties in the competitiveness of our economy. Finally, I am referring to the state of our public finances and, in particular, to public debt and deficit. As far as gross public debt is concerned, there has been a dramatic increase in its weight over GDP in the last decade. This increase has continued to date, reaching 130, 2 % of GDP in 2014. Despite this weight falling slightly in 2015, public debt net government deposits in 2015 will be slightly higher than 2014. The ECB’s action has been, and will continue to be, decisive precisely to ensure the stability of market conditions. If in 2011 and in order for everyone to understand the numbers well, the public debt that would belong to each Portuguese resident in our country, from the youngest to the oldest child, was €18,600 in 2015 will fall to each one — and let us not forget that we are now less — 20 % more than it was in 2011. This huge debt is consuming Portuguese tax resources on interest payments. As far as the budget deficit is concerned, there has been a reduction in the deficit, although social and economic costs are greater than they would have been required if there had been a correct budgetary policy. However, UTAO data show two important things: that the deficit of 2, 7 % of GDP, that the government has proposed to achieve, will not be achieved this year and that by September the deficit is 3, 5 %, corrected by extraordinary measures. The exit or not of the excessive deficit procedure, which we aspire to, thus depends on the behavior of this last quarter, of which two months are still the responsibility of the former Executive and only the last of the current Executive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u160	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u161	If last quarter's budget implementation is equal to last year's deficit of 1, 9 %, we will have an excessive deficit of 3, 1 %. If it's significantly better, we won't.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u162	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u163	I will now finish, Mr President. The Socialist Party recognizes the importance of avoiding an excessive deficit as early as 2015, has a political will to achieve and will do everything possible to achieve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, it must be recognised that it represents a huge demand for budgetary consolidation in the last month, the shortness of time and solutions that the Government has to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it follows from what we have just mentioned — the country's social, economic and financial weaknesses — that the task ahead of us in this Parliament will not be easy and requires, in the plurality of our parliamentary differences, that there is a sense of state and collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u164	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u165	The Socialist Party is committed to this new political cycle to return hope and trust to Portuguese and Portuguese. That is why we will continue to work, here and in the government, stubbornly and strategically for a more free, fair and supportive country. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u166	Mr President, there are three entries to request clarification. Question : How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u167	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u168	So it will be. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u169	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, thank you very much for your political statement. The honourable Member made references to the coming of the troika and to going beyond the troika. Mr. Member, let it be clear: as Portugal wanted to go beyond the Bojador and beyond the Adamastor,... [[Laughing.]] ... Portugal stayed and went beyond and left the troika behind. The gentlemen. Members seem to be those who, here on earth, brought Adamastor to Portugal. But let me ask you a few questions. Six months ago, the honourable Member said that the deficit would be 3, 2 % for this year. The new data, the UTAO report, the Banco de Portugal, the numbers of its institute, say that we will remain below 3%, with the numbers we already know and with the work already done. [[PCP protests.]] Or does he not confirm that, with the figures we have, all the forecast is that Portugal can achieve the historical objective, this time not to leave the Bojador or Adamastor behind, or the troika, of 3 % and of the excessive deficit procedure? Mr President, do you or do you not confirm that, in order to achieve this objective, it is enough that we achieve the same pace, the same result that we achieved in August, September and October? The gentlemen. In the last month, Members received a train which was going at a speed that, if maintained, no more than that, meets the target and falls below 3 %. Mr President, UTAO has confirmed that the result of these three months, at the rate at which the train is coming, is sufficient, more than enough, to reach 3 %. And so, Mr President, when we hear the government say that perhaps it will bring together the Council of Ministers this week to discuss the deficit, I ask you, or not, I agree with you that the only thing you have to say to the government is: "Let things run as they are running, don't spoil them! If there is any decision you have to make is to tell the services to do what they were doing! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u170	It looks like a cassette! [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u171	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u172	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira made references to the strategy. I ask if you look at these words, which are yours: « The left values work and working conditions(...) and sees in the state an indispensable regulatory element(...). However, it presents economic policy measures ignoring the State's overall budgetary restriction. (...) », and specifically on measures in this House under discussion, « (...) a total replacement of salaries of civil servants in 2016, as defended by the PS (... ), is a political, tactical and strategic error(...)...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u174	... a replacement of wages (as would happen with the replacement of pensions), above values considered reasonable, would accentuate social inequalities! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The honourable Member has a very serious level that I respect very much, so please do not give the same answer as Minister Mário Centeno, according to which bringing theoretical analyses closer to reality was a nonsense. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u176	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u177	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, in the months preceding the October 4 legislative elections, the PSD and the CDS-PP painted the very vivid country's economic and budgetary situation, trying to create the illusion that the country's situation was improving, that its policies had resulted, that the sacrifices imposed on Portuguese had been worth it. But the harsh reality was revealed immediately after the elections. The data coming to the public have confirmed the total and complete falsity of PSD and CDS-PP propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u178	What's the falsity?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u179	For example: the issue of the refund of the overtax, which before the elections was to be 35 % and which we now know will be a zero round; economic growth, which will, after all, be much smaller than what the PSD and the CDS-PP announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u180	Now you're disconcerting!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u181	Today the Banco de Portugal has reviewed the forecasts for 2016 and 2017 below. It was the budget deficit, which was to be 2, 7% and will now be 3 % with a lot and a lot of difficulty. In other words, the previous PSD/CDS-PP government failed all the announced goals before the elections, but did not fail for incompetence, failed because it deliberately wanted to hide from the Portuguese the real situation of the country, thus minimizing or attempting to minimize the electoral defeat that they knew was inevitable. But the previous PSD/CDS-PP government could have failed the target of the budget deficit by adopting policies that met the needs of Portuguese and Portugal. He could have failed the goal of the deficit because he returned wages and pensions wrongly subtracted. He could have failed the goal of the deficit by improving the social benefits and fighting the poverty that spread, and spreading, by the country. It could have failed the target of the deficit because it had invested in improving public services and the social functions of the State. [[CSD-PP Member Protests Telmo Correia.]] If that were the case, failure to meet the budget deficit goal would have a justification and could be discussed. But no! The PSD and the CDS continued to impose gross sacrifices on workers and the people, continued to confiscate incomes and liquidate the rights of those living in their work, continued to degrade public services and social functions of the State in health, education and social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u182	We're supporting the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u183	And in view of this, it is required that the PSD and CDS-PP give explanations to the Portuguese about what they did to the money.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u184	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude, because your time is already running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u185	Where were the billions of euros that extorted the Portuguese with your policy of exploitation and impoverishment? This is because it was certainly not to reduce the deficit or public debt! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u186	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear today that the three electoral promises on the right have failed, were fraud. The economy is stagnated with the investment to fall, tax revenues do not grow and therefore the overtax will not be returned. More than that, the public accounts are trapped. The PSD and CDS speak of responsibility, but they spent three-quarters of the financial pillow only to achieve a deficit that is far away from the goal they themselves have set. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, if nothing is done, the goal of the deficit that you have defined will not be met. [[On the contrary!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u188	The image is this: PSD and CDS have framed, created a time bomb that triggered before they left the government... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and now they're sitting watching the bomb explode, to say, "You see? It exploded in the hands of the PS! It was in the hands of the PS that exploded! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But whoever set it up was the right, and this is very, very clear today. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u189	They're sorry they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody defends uncontrolled public accounts! Nobody! The Left Block does not defend uncontrolled public accounts! But, yes, we are against budgetary rules that overlap with democracy. I want to rest Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the budgetary treaty is a blackmail on the countries. We haven't changed our position! We haven't changed our position!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u191	I don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u192	But what bothers the right is not the consistent and coherent position of the Left Block, what bothers the right is that even within the framework of the European commitments of the Socialist Party, it is possible to stop impoverishment. And this evidence denounces the fraud of austerity as a way out of the crisis. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] What bothers the right is that today it is clear to the country that the impoverishment program they imposed was not to save the public accounts, it was an ideological program. What a terrible thing it will be when people realize that they did all of this because of ideology and not to take the country out of the crisis. What a terrible evidence that will be! Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, to conclude by asking you whether this evidence of the three electoral frauds today is not rising as it is supposed, whether we are far from the goal of the deficit, the financial cushion being exhausted and the economic stagnation, is not proof that we need a profound change in policies, that we need to stop the impoverishment. It is possible to do so and only with an economy that grows and respects rights and wages can we have consolidated public accounts. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u194	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u195	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u196	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u197	Mr President, it is only through you that you inform the bench of the Left Block and Mrs Mariana Mortágua that Mrs Meireles made a political statement today, so Mrs Mariana Mortágua could and should have asked all the questions she has now asked. At the time he didn't, he didn't have the courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u198	Now I haven't asked any questions either!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u199	It is political cowardice and it seems to me disappointing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u200	Mr President, as with all respect, the question is not about the conduct of the Bureau's work but about the conduct of the work of the Left Block,... [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u201	It's about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u202	... therefore, the Bureau cannot answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u203	It was just to ask you to inform the rules of the game of this House, not to say you didn't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u204	I think they're all informed, because they were present. To reply, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u205	Mr President, first of all, I would like to know whether, given that the average of requests for clarification was 2 minutes and 30 seconds, I have 7 minutes and 30 seconds to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u206	It is entitled to the time that the Rules of Procedure allow, which is 3 minutes, to respond to the three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u207	All three?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u208	It's 3 minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u209	If it were separate...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u210	You have to adapt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u211	Mr President, as it is always an option, the Bureau asks whether it wishes to answer separately, for what it has two minutes, or together, three minutes for the overall response. That's how it's in the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u212	I am grateful for the clarification, Mr President. So I'll be a lot more telegraphic. Regarding Mr António Leitão Amaro, I would like to say that the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) takes three months to clear the deficit, so it is only in March 2016 that one will know, but Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has divine powers, and therefore he can already state what this year's deficit is. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] I thought it was quite clear in my speech, but perhaps Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro did not understand. What I said was whether the budget implementation of the 4. the quarter is 1, 9 %, as it was last year, the budget deficit will be 3, 1 % of GDP, and therefore the deficit is not guaranteed, because there may indeed be things we do not know. Let me give an example: do you know what the commercial debt of the EPE hospitals to the pharmacies is? You know that doesn't go into public accounting, but does it enter into national accounting? Maybe, you don't know, but you know! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] These and other things, which we don't have time to undress here, are very important and the INE will take its time to analyze. I do not have that information and therefore I cannot answer that question, in fact, no one can. I would just like to point out that on the provisional allocation and the budgetary reserve which the Government used last November, the Court of Auditors has made successive reports saying that it should not be used for what you used it, which was to pay for current expenditure. You have overburdened the expenditure on education and are using something that is not done for that purpose, which is the provisional allocation and the budget reserve to pay for staff. Well, we could be here a long time to talk, but unfortunately I don't have any more time, I have to study the Rules of Procedure better to see this issue. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Sá and Mrs Mariana Mortágua for the questions raised, which allow me to clarify a little more the content of my speech. It is obvious that there is a key field for policy changes in this country, especially if we no longer have a purely financial perspective on budgetary consolidation and realize that on the one hand we have budgetary consolidation and, on the other hand, we have something very important, which is the social dimension of the recovery of Portuguese income, of combating poverty, of combating social exclusion and the economic dimension. So the problem of the former government was, in fact, a fraud, and I thank you for that. Members have reminded her, which has already been clarified in Parliamentary committee, i.e. the former Secretary of State for Tax Affairs acknowledged that the methodology used to calculate the overtax of IRS was perhaps not the most appropriate one. No, the methodology was completely wrong and was made and chosen with the aim of manipulating the overtax of the IRS, in the sense that it was achieved. I am grateful for your questions, from the point of view of clarifying that we cannot only look at the budget deficit, we have to look at public debt, we have to look at the social side and we also have to look at the impact of budgetary consolidation on economic growth. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u213	Mr President, thank you very much for your strict response discipline, but indeed the Bureau always takes into account the various possibilities of reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u215	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u216	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u217	In what way, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u218	To ask Mr. President to send for the distribution by the honourable Members. Members of a document called Budget Implementation Analysis of October 2015, by the authorship of the Institute of Public Policy Thomas Jefferson — Correia da Serra, that Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira is the President, and that says: we expect the deficit to remain in the 2, 9 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u219	It'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u220	No, no, Mr President, continue with the reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u221	Mr President, we read in the document: "We expect the deficit to remain at 2, 9 %(... ) is enough to allow Portugal to leave the EDP. », excessive deficit procedure. It was not me, but Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira who made this forecast. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u222	The document will be distributed, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u223	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u224	Does Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira intend to intervene under what regime?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u225	For the same purpose of Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u226	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u227	The analysis made by the Institute of Public Policy is completely independent, I repeat, is completely independent...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u228	That's not an interrogation at the table. You need to study the Rules better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u229	Mr President, I am sorry, but the motions to the Bureau have to do with procedures. in this case, the PSD Member has requested a certain procedure from the Bureau, which is the distribution of a text.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u230	So, Mr President, I am going to bring you to the Bureau, and I would ask Mr President to send me information on my position at the Institute for Public Policy and the nature of this report. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Mrs. Members, having completed the period of political declarations, we will turn to point 2 of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 494 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria Flora Ferreira Sampaio Carvalho Correia and others, requesting the exclusion of Bill No 299 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which conforms the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists to the regime provided for in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, of all provisions relating to the convergence of the professions of dietitian and nutritionist. For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This intervention is intended to express the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this petition, which entered this House on 1 April 2015 and which, indeed, intended to withdraw from the proposed amendment to the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists everything concerning the convergence of the profession of dietitian with the profession of nutritionist, and to note that this petition was exceeded in time by the legislative process, in so far as it has already been published, in October this year, Law 125 / 2015, which effectively enshrines this convergence between the two professions. This is a convergence which has been widely discussed within the Order of Nutritionists, within the framework of the professionals who were covered by this convergence, which has also been widely discussed within the Parliamentary Committee on Social Security and Labour, and therefore the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the legislative process has now been completed, the law is in force, must follow its course and, of course, that, under the principle of trust, stability and legal certainty, this House would not make sense to be already amending a law which entered into force in October this year. We therefore believe that the measures proposed by this petition are not appropriate at this time and cannot be adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u234	Mr President, first of all I would like to greet the petitioners and petitioners of petition No 494 / XII ( 4. a ), which brings to the discussion the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists, in this particular case on the convergence of the professionals of dietitian and nutritionist. As has already been said, a new discussion in this House is certainly not easy to reconcile the expectations of these two professions under the same Order. History has not been easy so far, since, at the moment, the Order of Nutritionists foresees the registration of nutritionists and dietists in few distinctions. At the time of the review of the Statute of the Order, a proposal was submitted in the sense of convergence through the certification of qualifications in this case, moving towards the equivalence of the two, an option which has raised many doubts and concerns and which therefore deserved several reactions, both from professionals and associations representative of the sector. This petition, now appreciated, is one of these reaction initiatives, although the amendments have already been approved and are already in force. in this sense, by the part of the Left Block, we will be available, as always, to follow these types of processes and to work as much as possible to ensure that, above all, the professionals involved are dignified, so that there are no injured workers, in front of others, and do not enter into discussions leading to a situation where professionals are considered better than others, or vice versa. What matters here will thus be to establish a consensus that ensures, on the one hand, the users a quality service and, on the other hand, that professionals can carry on their activities safely, too. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u235	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u236	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by greeting the petitioners. The purpose of this petition was to influence Bill No. 299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), seeking the exclusion of all standards aimed at the convergence of the professions of dietitian and nutritionist. In other words, this petition rejected the cohabitation of these two professions in the same professional association. It is true that the delivery of this petition to the House was even prior to the final drafting of the law, which is currently in force. It is true that the text of the law was changed in order to adjust this wording, seeking to consensualize, as much as possible, the interests that were concerned, so that only licensed dieters and with a three-year convergence period can enter this professional order. The law is in force. We note what the Socialist Party has just said right now that it understood that it was necessary at this time to ensure a stability situation in relation to the framework of this professional order. I hope that this stability is general in all professional public associations, and it is obvious that there are here a number of issues that we can always keep in mind, but which, for us, had a full answer to the law that was passed. It does not make sense that efforts are being made to prevent the convergence of these two professions and to create two separate orders for these two professions. Nor does it make sense to close the registrations in professional orders, whether in lawyers, doctors or nutritionists, depending on the particular interests of a certain degree. And it is clear that, knowing that this is a matter that has been the subject of several proposals in this House of Democracy, it is important to realize what should be the professional associations that consolidate themselves and that are stabilized in the legal order, because, of course, they have an influence on the one who is the exercise of the profession and on the recognition of this profession, which is important not only for those who exercise it but, fundamentally, for the community and for the citizen who needs those services. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u237	Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This plenary today is called upon to discuss a petition which, as has already been mentioned here, has passed from the previous legislature and which concerns a bill which has amended the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists and which has been approved here, as has already been mentioned, in July this year. in this bill, which was also widely discussed, as has already been mentioned, in the Assembly of the Republic, the petitioners challenged the convergence regime between the professions of dietitian and nutritionist. What was it and what is this convergence regime? This convergence scheme seeks to eliminate discrimination for professionals who had the same degree of undergraduate, an equally recognized higher education offer, with the same functional content and a corresponding professional scope of action for the same professional exits. It is, of course, and that is what the Assembly of the Republic understood, the duty of the State to combat discrimination, treating differently what is different, but treating equally what is equal, sketching a distinction that was artificial and unfair. Moreover, that was what guided and always guided the position of the Social Democratic Party. However, it was also mentioned that this was a petition that was exceeded. I cannot fail to draw attention precisely to the claims of the petitioners, who have already contacted the Members of the Assembly of the Republic after that, saying that, in their view — the right which is recognised to them and which I welcome here — this subject remains because they are against this process of convergence. In fact, and I leave as a note, they imply, incurring a mistake, that this was only a solution from the previous governmental majority, the CDS and PSD, which does not correspond to the truth, because it obtained the Socialist Party's favorable votes and the abstention from the Left Block. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u239	It should also be pointed out that the petitioners understand, from this erroneous derivation, that they find in the e-mail sent, that this new formation of the Assembly of the Republic could allow the Socialist Party to change its position on this subject. This is apparently not going to happen here, and it is true that the principle of trust has been mentioned, which eventually served this theme, but has not served for others. But it is also worth noting something about the PSD, about which no one will ever doubt, whatever the constitution that may momentarily make more sense in the House of the Republic: we are intransigently defending the culture of merit. It is the only one who, not embarking on laughter and happiness cultures, defends the competence of the Portuguese, who, being competent, deserve this recognition intransigently. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party obviously begins by welcoming the petitioners and more than 4000 citizens who have associated themselves with this petition. It has already been said that this petition has passed from the previous legislature, but before we focus on what is the object of this provision—and it has already been mentioned here by the other parliamentary groups—the exclusion of all provisions relating to the convergence of the profession of dietitian to the profession of nutritionist, we would like to reiterate the position taken by the Portuguese Communist Party at the time of the creation of the Order of Nutritionists. The position we took was in favour of dietists also integrating the Order of Nutritionists. With regard to the so-called convergence process which was and is now contemplated in the law, at the time of the bill, the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, during the discussion in general, raised numerous doubts about what was envisaged in this convergence process. And the doubts were, of course, the fact that we considered that the proposal was a blank check, which did not actually lead to any of the measures or solutions found, of course, by a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. We considered at the time and today we consider that the process of convergence of the two professions needed a greater weighting and the involvement of various ministries, because it is a theme that is not unique and exclusive to the question of health and therefore also the Ministries of Education and Labour should be heard. This is because the issues involved in this process of convergence are cross-cutting to these three ministries. Not only is access to the profession involved, but also the way to develop this profession and, in particular, associated careers, both for dietists and for nutritionists, which are completely different. It is important to say that dieters are integrated in the career of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and that nutritionists are integrated in the career of superior health technician. And because these issues, in fact, should have merited due attention, which we have put in the field of specialty, we say that we continue to have reservations and that all these aspects should have been taken into account and been further and improved, to avoid the issues that many nutritionists and dietists are putting, as is reflected in this petition and in the various contacts they have made with parliamentary groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u242	Arrived at the end of the discussion of petition No 494 / XII ( 4. ( a ), we turn to petition No 502 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers, requiring the Assembly of the Republic not to apply the requalification/mobility scheme to teachers and the right to employment and to a public school of quality, and generally to projects of lein. 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the teaching retraining scheme ( PCP ) and 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the requalification of teachers ( BE). To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP's Parliamentary Group welcomes the request by the FENPROF — requalification, need for an urgent legislative measure for the teaching professional group — and also welcomes all the teachers present here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u244	The former Government, the PSD and the CDS, generated the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions, which had in mind the dismissal of workers in a well-defined process of fragility and destruction of essential services in order to grant or to make them more attractive to privatize. This retraining regime was subsequently applied to teachers against the will of teachers. Indeed, the intention to requalify teachers and other professionals of education was being prepared slowly, through measures such as the increase of students by class, the subversion of teaching hours, the elimination of some disciplines, the disrespect for the decrease in the number of students in classes with special educational needs, only to cite some examples. The conditions were thus created for the former Government to declare that there were teachers in excess. But no, there weren't, there aren't, teachers anymore. What was more, much more, was a PSD/CDS government committed to destroying the April school, using all the instruments, legal or illegal, which had by hand, in total disrespect by students, their families and education professionals. In the case of career teachers and on behalf of a supposed dignity of teachers and rationalization of needs, the previous government decided that teachers without having at least the title of a class with six hours of lessons per week would be transferred to requalification. Will teachers dignify the application of a 40% cut at the end of a year as a qualified teacher? Oh, my God! What about a second cut, this time of 60 %, after one year in this situation? Oh, my God! We'll say what? Oh, my God! What about the announced unemployment, which looks and destroys every day, creating emotional, family and professional instability? The public school needs teachers in an appropriate number to respond to real needs: support for students with special educational needs, co-adjugation, educational support, tutoring and so many other activities that are not rarely done in schools. We support the repeal of the requalification for the entire Public Administration and we will deliver a legislative initiative until the end of this week. Today we take the first step, with this legislative initiative we propose, to revoke the requalification of teachers, since, under the specific legislation applied to this effect, teachers who are found on 31 January 2016 without a minimum educational component assigned will be transferred to the requalification process. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u245	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor to present the bill of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the petitioners and all the teachers for this important petition that motivated the bill of the Left Block. It is known that the current government has already committed itself, in the Government Programme and at various times, publicly to the end of the requalification regime, which, as we know, is a regime of injustice and humiliation for public service, a regime that has only been created as a kind of legal makeup for the unconstitutional impossibility of dismissing public officials. And, as has already been said, he puts public servants in a first phase, with a cut of 40 % and, in a second phase, with a cut of 60 %, constantly threatening with dismissal all those who have contracts after 2009 and with pressure to terminate all those who have contracts prior to 2009, knowing how difficult it is to support a family, a house, with a cut of 60 % of wages. In schools, this requalification regime is particularly obscure and abstract, because no one understands, and much less teachers, what is in fact the requalification of a teacher. One teacher studied, trained, dreamed of being a teacher, and the only thing they want is to let him teach. He doesn't want to go to requalification, to get out of there doctor or anything, that's not what he wants. What you want is to let him be a teacher. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u247	Therefore, the requalification regime, in the case of teachers, makes it very clear that the objective is not, nor has it ever been, to requalify a teacher, who only wants to continue to be. The retraining regime has always served to threaten, blackmail and distance teachers from schools. It has never made sense and it makes no sense to apply this regime to anyone and, at least, to teachers. What the previous government did was concentrate schools, increase classes beyond acceptable, reduce special educational support, finance private schools and thus create a surplus of teachers or a supposed surplus of teachers, which, in fact, require schools. It was just an excuse to create this mechanism of pressure and permanent threat. Therefore, we believe that revoking the retraining mechanism for teachers throughout the Public Administration is to restore dignity and security to all these workers, that is to return rights to those who have already been wrongly placed under this regime and that is also, and that is why this measure is so urgent, to prevent teachers who are currently without a legal component, but who need schools where they are, in February, at the beginning of next year, placed in the requalification regime, from where they can come, in addition to all the difficulties and lose much of their salary, also dismissal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u248	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who have subscribed to this petition. As regards the object of the petition and the draft laws submitted by the PCP and BE, in order to revoke the teaching requalification regime, it must first be recalled that the PS was always opposed to the requalification regime, as we have repeatedly stated, for this regime to be an advance of redundancies in the public service. In the specific case of the retraining of teachers, it is important to remember that the XXI Constitutional Government Programme expressly envisages the repeal of this regime, as part of the measures necessary to create conditions of stability of the teaching body, indispensable to the global strategy of focusing schools on teaching and learning students, valuing their professionals. Now this strategy of valuing the inseparable teaching role of promoting school success for all, as a public school mission, is understood to be that the repeal of the teaching requalification regime is deeply anchored in the Government's programme that the PS Parliamentary Group strongly supports. Since the question of requalification of teachers is one aspect of the more global issue of requalification of workers in public functions, it should also be stressed that this is a matter which the XXI Government Programme places in the perspective of valuing the exercise of public functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The improperly called ‘requalification’ regime is to be replaced by an approach that promotes the voluntary mobility of employees between administrative services with staff needs, without excluding the adoption of incentives for this purpose, but always considering this voluntary mobility in the view of the interest that it can represent both for services and for workers themselves, in terms of personal development and career. And this makes sense only in the framework of a positive strategy that is strongly placed in the redignification of the exercise of public functions. It is within the framework of this strategy that we hope that the revocation of the teaching requalification scheme will take place. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this will only be one of the positive effects of a new bet on workers in public functions, as a decisive element for a stronger and more efficient state, serving better people and organizations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u250	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the subscribers of the petition we are debating today, together with the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which aim to end the requalification of teachers. First of all, it is appropriate and important to remember the number of teachers who are in mobility arrangements according to the petition: there are 15. And they find themselves in this condition because they do not have a working time with a school component. This is therefore a distant number of the alarmist forecasts of FENPROF and the parties on the left. However, we are not ashamed of the work done by the former Government, in respect of the work of teachers, particularly with regard to the stability of the teaching body. On the contrary, in this respect, we can even say that the former Government has signed appropriations. Otherwise, let's see: We created two extraordinary binding competitions and two other extraordinary binding contests for teachers of artistic music, dance and schools António Arroio and Soares dos Reis. We also launched an extraordinary internal competition to give more opportunity to linked teachers to be closer to their families and to introduce into the law the standard-work that provides for the semi-automatic entry of teachers with five years of annual, complete and consecutive contracts. In fact, this was a problem that had been dragged for decades and was finally resolved by the PSD/CDS government, which was a decisive contribution to giving greater stability to the teaching career. With these competitions, and despite the difficult period of financial assistance that the country has gone through, in which the stable employment market was virtually closed, the former Government has made them enter the teaching career4163 teachers — I repeat, 4163 teachers — an unparalleled number in recent decades in Portugal! These are indeed the facts! It was also the previous government that established the wage balance between hired teachers and career teachers and that corrected injustices concerning remuneration replacement in the teaching career, in particular teachers repositioned to index 272, with retroactive effects as at July 2010. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Any teaching system has, through the number of students and the demographic trends identified, to define the number of teachers needed to carry out their educational projects. However, it is known that in recent years there has been a notable decline in birth and that it reflects the level of needs to be met by the human resources of schools. What the data from the last OECD report tell us is that the student/teacher ratio in Portugal is lower — it is frightening! — in the OECD average. In fact, the report notes that in 2013 there was paragraph 1. o and no 2. the basic education cycles, 13 students per teacher, which compared with 15 students per teacher in the OECD average.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u252	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u253	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's 3:00. the cycle and in secondary education, the ratio was fixed in the nine students by teacher, below the 13 students by teacher in OECD. It is thus demonstrated that the former Government has effectively managed existing human resources, not wasting taxpayers' money. What is lacking to know is what the current socialist and communist government will do so that the country will not go to the tow of pressure groups or occasional interests. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition, against special requalification/mobility, by the right to employment and to a public school of quality, is submitted by FENPROF and 6136 signatures have been collected. We welcome all petitioners, teachers, as well as FenPROF, here present for the initiative, which deserved careful analysis by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. FENPROF correctly states that there was a reduction of about 34,000 teachers between 2011 and 2014. He claims there are no more teachers. But FENPROF does not mention another essential fact: in the same period the number of students decreased by about 150 000. There are, therefore, less students. [[Exactly! That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u256	It tells FenPROF that, given the reduction in the number of jobs — largely explained, not for economic reasons, but because of this sharp breakdown of the number of students in the system, that FenPROF omits — "many teachers have been forced to retire in advance or, in the case of contractees, have been dismissed". In good rigour, there are no hired teachers fired. What happens is that your contract ends at the end of the school year. There is therefore no place for the figure of dismissal, since by definition these teachers do not belong to the picture. It seems semantic, but, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus making serious mistakes in the sense of perception. But, as we speak of people and the professional expectations that they have, it is worth stressing some ideas already presented by Mr Pedro Alves. Between 2011 and 2015, the MEC entered the career 4163 teachers, precisely in order to stabilize human resources in school and adjusted management both to the needs and to the real possibilities of the moment. There was also a legislative change in the field of teaching contracts to limit the number of contracts to a term of resolution, successively, at an annual and full time. Still in the view of the appreciation of the teachers hired, and not being able to carry out wage updates of the employees of the Public Administration, the former Government has, by legislative means, equated their salary with those of the career teachers. Mrs. Members, as regards FenPROF's request for inclusion in the educational component of all activities involving direct work with students, it seems to us an abusive interpretation of this concept, as, moreover, the Council of Schools is so well based on the opinion sent to the Commission. Finally, as explained in the same opinion, we do not subscribe to the fact that teachers are given different treatment from other civil servants of the Public Administration with regard to the retraining and special mobility scheme. The school aims to teach and not use all teachers,... [[All right!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u257	... either the school needs or the school doesn't find for them a dignified occupation. The CDS-PP defends a stable and thorough management of careers, allowing, within the limits of unemployment, requalification for access to other careers in Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u258	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u259	... taking into account that demographic pressure will not alleviate and that part of the response should go beyond giving schools greater autonomy in these matters. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u260	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet the petitioners, the National Federation of Teachers and all the teachers who have subscribed to this petition. Secondly, I would like to say the following: in fact, there are two very different views on education here. Viewing education as a expense is destructive; seeing education as an investment is constructive. The previous government has seen education as a constant expenditure. Now, seeing education as a expense, he began to pretend to cut, cut, cut. And so, it took a number of measures, in particular, the increase in the number of students per class and some curricular reviews that we all remember, and also, among many other things, this extension of the requalification regime to teachers, an absolute foreclosure, as we know, for dismissal: in the first year, to earn 60 % of the salary, then 40% of the salary and then to the street. And this, in fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he does not sympathize with a strict wager in education, according to the needs of the country and according to something fundamental, which is the dignity of the teaching body. Much has been said here about the dignity of teachers, but, in relation to the previous government, as we all know, much has been considered by the teachers and teachers of this country. And this is one of the things that has to change in this country. We are therefore in time to correct mistakes made by the previous government. This is the time we are living today, and, in this case, it is essential that we assume the need to revoke the requalification of teachers. On the other hand, we cannot understand how the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS continue to claim falsehoods, wanting to convince, I no longer know who they are, that they are true. The PSD Member came here to say that the teachers in the requalification are 15, but he has forgotten a number: it is 154, Mr, it is not 15! It's more than 139 of social security, sir! So there is a reality here that you always try to hide. Then there was also a perennial falsehood here, because, in fact, we all know that the teachers of the teaching area that were placed in the career were not repositioned. They are people, often with 25 years of work that earns by 1. the index.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u263	Therefore, you like to continue building castles, as if they had built something good in education, when, in fact, everything did and everything worked in a destructive logic. That is the case, Mr President: you have always seen education as a waste. And the country just lost it. Now, we are in time to win and view education as an investment that is made in the country, to take place a future in this country. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-09.u264	With no further inscriptions, we have reached the end of the joint assessment of petition No 502 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and generally of the projects of lein.o 59 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 70 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE ). And so we also came to the end of today's work. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: appraisal of draft resolution No 26 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the recognition and strengthening of social economy entities ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; joint discussion of the projects of lein. 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, eliminating the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment for more than 5 years ( PS ), 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by limiting the application of the summary procedure to minor crimes ( Twenty-fourth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) ( PCP ) and 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, repealing the possibility of judging in summary proceedings crimes with a criminal framework of more than 5 years'imprisonment ( BE ) ; assessment of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October 2015 which is the first amendment to Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August establishing the special regime for the protection of disability, and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 265 / 99 of 14 July ( amended by Decrees-Laws No 309 -A / 2000 of 30 November and 13 / 2013 of 25 January), which creates the supplement for dependence ( parliamentary appraisals n. 7 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) ( BE) and 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ; and draft resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the definition of a set of priorities for family farming with a view to establishing a Portuguese Family Agriculture Statute ( CFP ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
