ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u1	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Complying with Parliamentary Praxie, I, as the parliamentary leader of the majority party in this House, assumes the honorable task of starting our work and opening the XIII Legislation. on this occasion, and firstly, I would like to greet the Portuguese people who, in an orderly, free and democratic manner, expressed their political will and also, in a clear and transparent manner, elected their representatives in the Assembly of the Republic on 4 October. I also welcome, therefore, the 230 Members here, congratulating them on their election and wishing that we can all, together, in the plurality of our opinions, build a legislature that leads to the life of our community, to our citizens more well-being, more economic progress and more social justice. A good mandate, therefore, for all and, above all, a welcome word to those who are here for the first time. in the same way, I would also like to address a word of recognition and gratitude to all those who have ceased their duties and who have served Portugal and democracy in the legislature that now ends. In particular, it is due a very special word to the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Maria da Assumption Esteves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u2	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u3	His example of tolerance, impartiality, political and legal competence and his affectionate intelligence have marked the mandate that is now over. [[PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PS Members applauded.]] We owe him the public recognition and gratitude for the prestige and dignity he has added to the parliamentary institution. Finally, it remains for me, and still following the parliamentary practice, to suggest one of us to preside on our work on an interim basis. Therefore, in the absence of the President of the Assembly of the Permanent Republic and the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Permanent Republic representing the same Parliamentary Group, I would like to propose to you to perform this function which of us, I say, although it does not seem, has seen the light of the day longer. In addition, it is an experienced and respected Parliamentary who has therefore found no objection in the previous consultation which I have made to all the other parliamentary groups. Personally, forgive me this note, it is with renewed pleasure that I invite Mr. Alberto Martins of the Socialist Party, my very dear friend... [[General applause.]] I said that it is with renewed pleasure that I invite Mr Alberto Martins of the Socialist Party, my dear friend, to take the presidency of this session and to conduct our work from time to time. [[General applause.]] [[With the consent of the Assembly, he took the presidency of the PS Alberto Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u4	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by taking the lead in the work at the beginning of this parliamentary session, allow me - for a duty of courtesy, which I am pleased to do, health to all my fellow Members, at the beginning of functions, of all the benches and of all the parliamentary groups, of course, which is for all of us an honour and a responsibility to fulfil the mandate in constitutional terms in this House representative of all the Portuguese citizens. According to Parliamentary practice, today we have two particularly relevant moments, from then on, the verification of the powers of all Members, which is an assessment of the regularity of mandates, and the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. In addition, according to the practice for the conduct of the work, the two major parliamentary groups were asked to indicate two elements to integrate the Bureau into the conduct of the work. You have the floor Mr. Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u5	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group indicates Mr Duarte Pacheco to perform this function. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u6	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u7	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group indicates Mrs Rosa Albertz for the same functions. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Also with the Assembly's consent, those Members occupied their seats in the Bureau.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary will read draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a Committee for the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members presented by PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) subscribed by all parliamentary groups is as follows: « At the 23rd day of October 2015, the Members elected in the XIII Parliament of the Assembly of the Republic shall decide to set up an eventual Credentials Committee of the elected members in accordance with the constant relationship of the general clearance act of the National Elections Commission, which shall remain in operation until the committee responsible for this matter is established. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy shall be composed of the following Members: Members: Six members appointed by the Social Democratic Party : — José Matos Correia; — Miguel Santos; — Sérgio Azevedo; — Clara Marques Mendes; — Carlos Abreu Amorim; - Angel War. Five members appointed by the Socialist Party : — Philip Neto Brandão ; — Inês de Medeiros ; — Isabel Santos; — John Paul Correia; - Pedro Delgado Alves. A member appointed by the Left Block : — Jorge Costa. A member appointed by the People's Party : - Abel Lima Baptista. A member appointed by the Portuguese Communist Party : - António Filipe. A member appointed by the Green Party: - José Luís Ferreira. It is up to this Commission to elect its Bureau and, in conjunction, to appoint a rapporteur. Its purpose is to draw up a report to be put to the vote by the plenary, containing the declaration of verification of the powers of the elected Members, and thus the relevant replacements of the Members (derived or the exercise of office determining the suspension of their mandate, or the requirement of their own) by the non-elected candidates of their respective parties following the order of precedence of their circles and lists. The other facts having an impact on the verification of their powers should also appear in the report. The report shall conclude with a formal opinion to be put to the vote by the plenary. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u10	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for speech, I believe that I can interpret silence as the acquiescence of the possibility that we will now proceed to the vote. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a Committee for the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members, signed by all parliamentary groups. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us interrupt our work so that the Commission can meet in Room 1. We'll go back to work at 3 p.m. [[It was 10 hours and 28 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's restart our work. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco asked Mr Pacheco to read the report and the opinion presented by the Committee for the Verification of Credentials of the Elected Members. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion submitted by the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members was approved unanimously by the Commission and is of the following content: « 1 — on 23 October 2015, for 10 hours and 45 minutes, in Room 1 of the Palace of Saint Benedict, met the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members to carry out the verification of the powers of elected Members on 4 October 2015 for the Assembly of the Republic — XIII Legislation. 2 — At the beginning of the meeting, the Commission decided to elect the Bureau of the Commission consisting of Mr José de Matos Correia, the PSD Parliamentary Group, President, and Mr Isabel Santos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, Vice-President. 3 — The Parliamentary Group of the PSD was subsequently appointed rapporteur. 4 — The procedure and other elements sent by the National Elections Commission, in particular the general minutes for the general completion of the elections to the Assembly of the Republic, included there, were found to be the formal regularity of the allocation of mandates, in accordance with Official Map No 2 - B / 2015, of the National Elections Commission, published in Diário da República, I Serie A, No 205, 1. the Supplement, of 20 October 2015. 5 — The Commission was of the opinion unanimously that the powers of all the Members listed therein should be judged as being verified. 6 — In the light of the applicable legal provisions and requests for substitution, the Possible Credentials Committee has made the relevant replacements of Members who hold positions determining the suspension of the mandate ( Articles 4 ). o and 20. the Statute of the Deputies) by the non-elected candidates of the parties which follow them in the order of precedence in the lists of their electoral circles, except those which on this date are subject to impediment or have applied for suspension: ( a) Article 20. point ( a) of paragraph 1 of the Statute of the Deputies, beginning on 23 October, including. Maria Correia de Almeida de Melo Cabral (Electoral circle of the Azores ) by Rosa Maria Brasil Dart ; Jorge Manuel Lopes Moreira da Silva (Electoral circle of Braga ) by Rui Manuel Ferreira da Silva ; Emídio Guerreiro (Electoral circle of Braga ) by Maria Celeste Vila Fernandes Cardoso ; Manuel Luís Marrecas Ferreira Rodrigues (Electoral circle of Coimbra ) by Nuno Miguel Pestana Chaves e Castro da Encaração ; Maria Teresa da Silva Morais (Electoral circle of Leiria ) by Maria Sofia Fernandes Bettencourt by Conceição Feliciano Antunes Jardieiro ; Luílio Múro ; Pedro de Barros Séra Pedro Guéotes (Electoral circle of Lisbon ) Social Democratic Center — Popular Party — Maria de Assunção Oliveira Cristas Machado da Graça (Electoral Circle of Leiria ) by Manuel Fialho Isaac ; João Rodrigo Pinho de Almeida (Electoral Circle of Aveiro ) by Lília Ana da Cruz Oliveira Martins Águas ; Paulo Sacadura Cabral Portas (Electoral Circle of Lisbon ) by Antonio Filipe da Province Santarém Anacoreta Correia ; Luís Pedro da Mota Soares (Electoral Circle of Porto ) by Francisco André Dinis Reis Mendes da Silva ; Vânia Carvalho Days da Silva de Antas de Barros (Electoral Circle of Braga ) by Otilia da Conceição Ferreira Gomes. 7 — The Commission has also examined the following applications for suspension of mandate in accordance with Articles 4. , paragraph 1 ( a ) and 5. point ( b) of paragraph 2 of the Statute of Deputies, beginning at 23 of the current, including. Socialist Party — Jamila Bárbara Madeira and Madeira (voting circle of Faro ) by Fernando José dos Santos Anastácio. The Portuguese Communist Party — Artur Jorge da Silva Machado (port electoral circle) by Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro, in view of the impediment of the non-elected candidates who follow him on the list, José António de Magalhães Gomes, Joana Cristina Pinto da Costa and Manuel Alfredo da Rocha Maia, beginning on October 23, including. 8 — The Commission unanimously accepted all the substitutions and suspension of mandates in accordance with the requirements submitted. 9 — Having examined the facts available, the Commission was of the opinion that the powers of the so-called substitutes should also be judged as being verified and thus legitimised for the substitutions in question. Palace of Saint Benedict on 23 October 2015 ». This report is signed by the Commission by President José de Matos Correia ( PSD ), Vice-President Isabel Santos ( PS ) and the Ángela Guerra ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u12	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is no objection, so this report and its opinion is approved by the plenary. Let us now proceed to the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. in accordance with the rules of procedure, the Bureau received two nominations. by order of entry, the following names appear in their ballot: Fernando Mimoso Negro, application submitted by PSD / CDS-PP, and Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues, application submitted by the Socialist Party. We shall proceed immediately to the vote by means of a regiment and traditional form in the ballot box, which is located in the centre of the Chamber. The services have previously ensured the distribution of ballot papers, so the call will be made in nominal alphabetical order of all Members. Unless there were any reservations about this form of vote, he asked Mr Duarte Pacheco to initiate the call in alphabetical order. Ladies and gentlemen who will vote. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we shall begin the vote. [[The vote was taken.]] Mr President, I do not yet exercise my right to vote, so if I may, I will now exercise it and we still have the replacement, which was not correct on the list, of the Member, elected, Paulo Sacadura Portas by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u13	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u14	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u15	Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear that this is not a replacement case. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa was not called and was elected directly by the electoral circle of Lisbon, where Mr Paulo Sacadura Cabral Portas was also elected, at this time Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u16	I call on Mr Duarte Pacheco to correct the list which has been presented and to call on the elected Member to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u17	Mr President, there has indeed been a failure in the list which has been distributed to us, because it still contained the name of Mr. Paulo Sacadura Portas which, we know, is suspended by public functions. [[Pause.]] With my vote and that of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the voting procedure is completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u18	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the vote, we shall interrupt the vote, and we shall be responsible for the vote. Members Secretaries of the Bureau. The session is interrupted. [[It was 15 hours and 41 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare resumed the sitting. [[It was 16 hours and 1 minute.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in a position to announce the results of the vote, which is of the following content: 'At the twenty-three days of October of two thousand and fifteen, the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic was made and the following result was obtained: Voters— 230 White votes — 2 Proposed candidates: Fernando Mimoso Negro ( PSD ) Votes 'yes' — 108 Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues ( PS ) Votes 'yes' — 120 according to the applicable legal terms and the result obtained, the candidate Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues is declared elected to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. The present has been washed until it is properly signed. The polling officers, Duarte Pacheco and Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] On behalf of the Bureau, I would like to congratulate Mr Elected, whom I call on to take the Chair and to direct the work. [[The elected President, Ferro Rodrigues, addressed the Bureau and was congratulated by the President-in-Office, who, after the exchange of compliments, took his place at the PS bench.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the outgoing President, Dr. Assumption Esteves, who, with his humanism and his competence, was able to dignify Parliament and the position of President of the Assembly of the Republic in a complex time and in a very demanding legislature. I also greet all of you. elected Members, wishing them the greatest successes in the exercise of their mandates now that they start the XIII legislature. I welcome all officials and all officials of the Assembly of the Republic and I congratulate the Members. Journalists working with us every day. The start of a legislature is a moment of renewed hope and it is always a very special moment for those who arrive here for the first time with the noblest of the missions: to represent the Portuguese in the Assembly of the Republic. I remember well the day I first took up my mandate as a Member. Unfortunately, almost 30 years have passed since then, although with many interruptions. I recall some Members who marked me at various moments and functions: Raúl Rêgo, Jaime Gama, Manuel Alegre, Barbosa de Melo, Mota Amaral, Almeida Santos, Silva Lopes, João Cravinho, Basílio Horta, Pacheco Pereira, Lobo Xavier and so many others that, unjustly, I am not quoting at this time. I want to tell you that the honor I felt on the first day I sat in these seats as a Member is the same as I feel today when I deserve the confidence of your vote to serve as President of the Assembly of the Republic. I hope to be up to the legacy that has been left to me by the Presidents who have preceded me and their example of democratic culture and institutional cooperation. I will be the President of all Members and of all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic is a sovereign body that occupies an irreplaceable place in our democratic political system. It is in this Chamber that the sovereign will, expressed by the vote, of all Portuguese and all Portuguese is represented in the composition of the benches of the different political parties. This is where the legislative initiative and the adoption of the laws go. The Assembly of the Republic is the par excellence of monitoring of government action, but this is also the centre of major political debates. And so this is the decisive space of expression of differences, but also of building commitments and balances, always decisive to sustain the great advances of our country. A quality democracy does not run out on election day. Democracy is a regime of separation of powers, a system based on rules and procedures in which the opposition has a status and role as relevant as that of the Government. The Assembly of the Republic also requires strict respect for the role of the other sovereign bodies, the President of the Republic, the Government and the Tribunals, as well as of the autonomous regions and local authorities. This is an unthinkable constitutional duty. We respect the sovereignty and autonomy of the courts, the Government and the President of the Republic, and in this sense we have the right and duty to demand respect for the sovereignty of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] This legislation should serve to consolidate the legislative and supervisory function of the Portuguese Parliament and to affirm it as a stage of the major national political debates. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Assembly of the Republic requires, in particular, that it be able to carry out its constitutional duties well, but that it also know to go beyond its traditional methods. Parliament is required to be aware of the moment we live and the signs that the Portuguese are giving us. The Portuguese feel distant from power and rely less and less on democratic institutions. Levels of dissatisfaction with democracy are worrying. in the 4 October elections more than 40% of the Portuguese even chose not to vote. Forty years after the first free and fair elections that mobilized the hope of so many in Portugal we achieved a strong abstention in legislative elections, even taking into account the unrealism of the electoral books, which we must be able to put to an end, and the huge emigration recorded between 2011 and 2015. We do not delude ourselves, many of these signs of dissatisfaction,... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u20	... I repeat, many of these signs of dissatisfaction with democratic institutions relate first of all to dissatisfaction with the country's own economic and social situation. The economic adjustment process that we live has left social wounds which are of urgent importance to heal. I am thinking about poverty, unemployment, inequality and unwanted emigration. No economy grows fairly and shared if most people leave behind. No democracy is consolidated with a middle class to shrink. The most prosperous and competitive societies in the world are cohesive and supportive societies with high levels of qualification and innovation. We must bring back the values of solidarity and innovation to democratic institutions. These have been, and will continue to be, the reasons for the fights of my life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to economic and social improvements, Portuguese wait for changes in the political system, changes that give them more power of scrutiny and participation and change, also in the dominant culture of political actors. The lively debate and the full expression of differences are compatible with an ideal culture of respect. in recent years, so difficult, it would have been important at various times to have known how to preserve this distinction and find spaces for negotiation and commitment. Having good policy is a way to get good policies and good results. We urgently need to consolidate a new democracy of proximity, we need to find ways to ensure that citizens have more influence on the choice of each of their representatives, always in strict respect for proportionality. We need more transparency in the exercise of public office. We need to make the state and its services closer to the citizens. The Assembly of the Republic owes the stage of these major political debates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: 40 years of the approval of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic are celebrated next year. That date deserves a special celebration. Celebrating the Constitution is not merely a ritual, it is to remind today the constitutional spirit of 1976. In 1976, it was possible for parties and constituents representing very different models of society to converge on the rules of the democratic game and on the fundamental values that still guide the Portuguese Republic. The European integration of Portugal is certainly based on many successes of 40 years of democracy, but it was the initial constitutional spirit, marked by commitment and convergence, which then gave political conditions to the advancement of democracy. The conflict belongs to democratic politics, but no democracy survives without a culture of institutional loyalty and strategic dialogue between the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] No democracy survives without commitment. The truth is that the history of the successes of these 40 years of democracy is the history of many political commitments and of many civilizational advances that were only possible because there were those who sat at the table to agree on fundamental things. Adapting Mário de Carvalho, I would say that you and Mr. Members will all have to change a lot of ideas on many matters. Quoting Persona, the Book of Disassembly: «We all live in this world on board a ship out of a port that we do not know about to a port that we ignore; we must have for each other a friendly journey. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our history of commitments and convergences must be repeated in this new time when no political force has had an absolute majority. in this context, the responsibility of all parliamentary groups is increased. The Portuguese are in the eyes of the Assembly of the Republic. in a world with too many wars, with very serious problems of refugees and migrants, with dangers of disasters caused by climate change, this Parliament and this country are called. Everyone's summoned, everyone! Because, in a democratic Parliament, none, I stress, any, representative of the people is at the outset unable to contribute to the future of their country. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Just as there are no first and second Members, there are no first and second parliamentary groups, acceptable coalitions and other banks. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] over the past 40 years, we have already shown that the Republic is not without Republicans and that democracy is not made without Democrats. We have already put together many dreams of democracy. We have achieved political rights, but also the economic, social and cultural rights of Portuguese people. We now have new dreams to realize, and therefore we have to know how to keep up with these new dreams. Allow me a personal note: I have been in the daily political struggle for more democracy and social dignity for almost 50 years. I owe a lot to my grandparents—I have learned to read in the newspaper Republika, that my grandfather, in Montemor-o-Novo, signed in full New State—and to all my family, to those who, unfortunately, have gone and those who always follow my side, my wife, my brother, my children and my grandchildren, and, of course, my friends, some more than 60 years old, and my comrades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall end by wishing all and all Mrs. Members of the highest success for this XIII legislature. Let us return to this Parliament, which now begins, in a parliamentary dialogue legislature, with political commitments... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u21	...and social advances. The measure of success is to have a democracy closer to our ambitions in four years. Thank you very much. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today a rule has been broken, a tradition of always Portuguese democracy. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u23	I regret that for the first time, a President of the Assembly of the Republic has not left the party or coalition that has won the elections and regrets that Mr Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues has been elected in contrast to this tradition. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u24	Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate the new President of the Assembly with respect and democratic fair play. In democracy, when there are elections, those who have the most votes win and those who have the least votes lose. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] In democracy, and in our democracy, it has always been this: whoever has more votes wins and rules, in this case wins and directs the work; whoever has less votes, it is opposition, and in this case respects the direction of work. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u25	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the people are waiting for from all of us! We are starting a legislature — one more — of great necessity and great complexity. The times that await us are not easy times. The country has undertaken a path of economic and social recovery that should not be stopped. More: the people didn't want it to be stopped! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u26	And, at this beginning of legislation, I mean to the ladies and gentlemen. Members and the President of the Assembly of the Republic, who is our responsibility to accept the decision of the sovereign people, who expressed their political will in the last elections of 4 October. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u27	in these elections, the people chose the political program of the coalition Portugal to the Front, the PSD and the CDS-PP, to serve as a basis for government action. It is true that you did not entrust this coalition with parliamentary support that would set up an absolute majority of the mandates, which means that, of our responsibility, it demands the need to sign the commitments with the other banks, but it also gives the other banks the responsibility to understand and respect the will of the people and to offer their willingness to find those commitments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And as has always happened, also in our democracy, in the face of the results of the elections, the people also made another choice, chose Pedro Passos Coelho to be Prime Minister and lead the government, no one else chose... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] ...and gave everyone the responsibility not to ruin everything that we have been able to conquer with the effort and sacrifice of the people, of the Portuguese, what we have actually achieved in recent years. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] We started this legislature, as I said recently, demanding and complex, with great challenges, but fortunately, with challenges that today have and bring in more hope than those we had when we started the last legislation. Fortunately, today we begin, not being subject to an external aid request and a book of charges, as we were in the last legislature. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u28	I therefore ask all parliamentarians and all parties: respect the will of the people! Respect the form, clear and unequivocal, as it was expressed! We will be here on this bench with our coalition partner to support the Government of Portugal and to achieve, in Parliament, the understandings that are necessary not to waste the effort made. Mr President, I want to finish by speaking to you, with all due respect. I repeat: even though a well-established tradition has been broken in our democracy, we respect and have the democratic fair play to recognize the legitimacy of its election and to wish it a good mandate and good luck in the exercise of that function. But I also want to tell you that your term of office as President of the Assembly of the Republic has not begun well,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u29	... because I have remained—and I want to say this with all honesty and frontality— with the feeling that the guarantees of exemption and impartiality, which must be on the basis of the exercise of the role of President of the Assembly of the Republic, are still far from being guaranteed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I therefore wish that the contagion of the recent election campaign and the contagion of what political life has been in the last few days should, unfortunately, you have been attacked, not be projected in the rest of your mandate and that we can all respect, once again, the sovereign will of the people, which was expressed in a free and democratic manner on 4 October. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u30	Like Mr President, I could also make considerations about the exemption and fair play, but I would rather not do them right now, because of the symbolism of the time we live. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr António Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, at this beginning of parliamentary work, I want to address to all and all colleagues a cordial fulfillment, and I do so with a particular emotion of returning to this first row of this bench, returned 11 years since I ceased my last parliamentary mandate, and to all and all I want to wish the greatest happiness and success in the exercise of this mandate, which is the noble mandate that has been entrusted to us directly, to all of us, by the voters and citizens of Portugal. I wish all the greatest happiness for the exercise of the mandate. I would, of course, like to extend a special greeting to Mr Fernando Negrão, who connects me with personal esteem ties, with whom I have enjoyed working in the City Hall of Lisbon and to whom I greet in this democratic dispute that we have worked here, because, in democracy, the merit is not clear from the result of the votes,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... the merit comes from the quality, conviction and dignity with which each one halts the political struggle, and, in Mr. Fernando Negrão, I want to welcome the dignity, commitment and conviction with which he stops his political struggle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is, of course, with particular satisfaction, that I greet Mr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues for his election to the President of the Assembly of the Republic, with a very expressive majority, who assured his election on the first lap, for our pride and satisfaction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Ferro Rodrigues, our President, is a man who throughout his life has demonstrated as well as it is possible, in all conditions, to fight for what is essential in the political struggle, the fight for ideas, the fight in the name of convictions. He did so in times of opposition to the dictatorship, as student leader; he did it as leader and militant of parties without parliamentary expression; he did it as a Member of this House; he did it as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party; he did it as a member of the government and I am sure that he will continue to do so, as a second figure of the Portuguese State, honoring our democracy and prestigious our Republic. I wish you the greatest happiness in the exercise of your mandate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the beginning of our work is the first institutional expression of the XIII Legislation and the first institutional expression of what was the election results of the last October 4th. in its first vote, the election to President of the Assembly of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic has unequivocally expressed the majority of the desire of all Portuguese that this XIII legislature be marked, from its beginning, by a legislature of change and of construction of a new stage in our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The beginning of the functions of the Assembly of the Republic expresses well the representation of the Portuguese in the plurality of the arc of democratic representation and is this arc of the democratic representation given to all and to each of the Members and Members, to all and to each of the parliamentary groups, in this Assembly of the Republic, the same dignity, the same status and the same representation of what is the will of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very important that this first vote has been taken by secret ballot. It is a method of voting that ensures the most pure freedom of each one of us in the exercise of the will responsible for the mandate that each of us has received from the Portuguese. in the secret vote there is no discipline of vote, there is conscience and responsibility at the time of vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Freedom and responsibility for voting depend solely on the will of each individual and the Socialist Party is proud to be a party that cultivates freedom within itself. Therefore, the free expression of each person's will is the genuine will of each citizen's representation. What we demonstrate here today is that we cherish our freedom very much but that our freedom is determined by the will of ourselves and is not manipulated by any force that wants to block the change that the Portuguese voted and that we represent here in this House of the Republic. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Mr President, I know that today I am no longer only the member of the Socialist Party's bench. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u32	Today he became the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the President representing the House of Democracy, which represents the sovereignty body where the sovereign will of the Portuguese people is deposited and I am sure that he will be able to exercise this role not just as one of us but certainly as the President of all the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, and not only of the vast majority who allowed his election unequivocally at first. Good term, Mr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u33	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u34	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: First of all, a special greeting to Mr. President for his current term of office. Knowing that he will be demanding, we also know that he will be able to fulfill the scrolls required to carry out his mandate. All Members are also congratulated, and so allow me, in this speech, to congratulate you, who congratulate all and all of the honourable Members, stressors and those who repeat your mandate, because everyone is required to do the most in compliance with the Republic. This room says a lot and explains how it is about our shoulders a huge responsibility. Looking to the statues here in this room we see that, first, the Constitution and the Law is represented, and then the Jurisprudence, Eloquency, Justice and Diplomacy are represented. And because it is democracy that we speak in each of our choices, in democracy they send votes and not traditions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u35	There are none of these statues dedicated to parliamentary traditions. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] So if in your election there was a well-installed tradition that ended up being broken, then let us hope that it is not the only one that will have that end for these days. That's our wish. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Member António Costa.]] In democracy he sends those who have the most votes, but in democracy he sends those who choose the votes. One person, one vote, all the same, all the votes are the same. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] In democracy there are no votes of first or second. So if any democratic rule has been broken by these days it was yesterday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u37	... when a President of the Republic went to the country and said that there were, after all, first and second votes. We do not accept this statement. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, and The Greens.]] I shall finish, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, by addressing these words to you but also, through you, to all the Members. We will give all institutional loyalty to you and to any or any of the Members, we will always be worth our votes and our consciences, fulfilling the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and ensuring, by our ideas, that we will fight for it as long as our forces exist, but also ensuring that we never forget that, in democracy, the votes and the composition of the majority by them said to govern our rules. Therefore, on our part, there is every willingness to work for the Constitution, for the sake of the Republic and, above all, for the people, because that is our mandate. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u38	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot and do not want to stop starting this speech by clearly saying that, in the view of the CDS, we have just broken a 40-year tradition, in which the President of the Assembly of the Republic has always emerged from the bench with the largest number of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u40	It's objectively false!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u41	Mr. President spoke of former President Jaime Gama. Well, Mr President, I must tell you that President Jaime Gama issued a House of the Republic that had a party with a minority, the Socialist Party, won this election with 204 votes — I repeat, 204 votes by 230 — and perhaps that makes everyone realize the difference between meeting the tradition and breaking the rules. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I can also tell you frankly that we understand this as a negative fact and we read the motivations of those who are available to break rules and traditions that have allowed a democratic life for four decades, of diverse opinions, different doctrines, different Members, different ideologies and that to everyone, even today, has served. Having said this, of course, I welcome him democratically for his election to the Assembly of the Republic and I wish him a good mandate, of course, Mr President, that he did not start well and I am not sure that in this first speech he wore the fact of President of the Assembly of the Republic, for which he had just been elected. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u42	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me to begin my speech by leaving a compliment to all of you. Members who have been elected, in particular, to Mr Fernando Negrão, who participated in the suffrage whose outcome is now recorded, and, of course, Mr President, a greeting for his election as President of the Assembly of the Republic, fulfilling the constitutional precept of absolute majority election of the votes of the Members, which is the constitutional precept relevant to the suffrage which led to his election, in an election which has recorded different practices. And because I believe that this record, although it has not initially been planned, must be done, I remember the practice of electing presidents from the parliamentary group with the largest number of Members, but I also remember that we had an elected president from a parliamentary group that was not the most voted at the time, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, in one case and another respecting constitutional precept... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u44	It was a coalition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u45	... relevant to the election in question, which is to pick up the absolute majority of the votes of the Members in office, I demand that which Mr President has fulfilled and therefore I would like to welcome him for his election. The election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic has, of course, a symbolic meaning, but also a political meaning, because it gives expression to the new correlation of forces resulting from the elections of 4 October and this must also be recorded. I would like to tell you, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, that on the side of the CFP Parliamentary Group we wish you the greatest happiness and success in the conduct of the work of the Assembly of the Republic and in the functions of the Presidency of the Assembly of the Republic, ensuring that you, like your predecessors, will count on the side of the CFP Parliamental Group, with all collaboration, in respect of the principles of loyalty, integrity and honesty, which, moreover, have governed your relationship with the former Presidents of the Republic and with all the other Members of the CFP. elected Members. It is true that the difficulties and problems that mark the day-to-day Portuguese people and the national reality will certainly not fail to put further demands to the Assembly of the Republic, particularly in the decisions that must be called upon to take regarding the fate of our country. from the PCP Parliamentary Group, obviously counting on a renewed and strengthened parliamentary group, we will continue to make the important contribution we have always made so that the problems of workers, people and countries find here the answer they deserve, the answer needed for these problems to be overcome. Reiterating his greeting to the President for his election, I would like to wish all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that this work will actually help to solve these problems that we have just identified. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u46	For an intervention in the representation of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If I may, Mr President, first of all on behalf of the Green Group, I would like to congratulate all of you and all of you. Members now elected, in particular those who have moved from the past legislature to this legislature. I also see that there are many Members who, having not been in the previous Parliament, have already been in others, have now returned, and I also see with satisfaction that there are many ladies and gentlemen. Members who for the first time enter the Assembly of the Republic, in the performance of these functions. I would therefore like to greet them and greet them all and all. Of course, I would also like to extend a very special compliment to the President of the Assembly of the Republic now elected and to tell you, on behalf of the Greens Parliamentary Group, that we wish you the greatest success and the greatest success in the exercise of the current position. Tell us, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, about an issue that seems fundamental to us and that perhaps in this legislature which is now beginning is not of any importance to dignify the Assembly of the Republic. In order to dignify the Assembly of the Republic, Mr President, it may be important to clarify, from now on, a matter to be taken into account also in this Parliament : the last legislative elections served to elect 230 Members for the Assembly of the Republic rather than a Prime Minister. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] This is a crucial issue so that we can formulate our reasonings. And of these 230 elected Members, in fact, there is a new parliamentary framework and a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic — it is not worth to pretend that this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — and it is with this framework that we are going to work in this same legislation. And, in this new correlation of forces, it may be important to recall the last electoral campaign (it is not necessary to go much further) and realize the following: there were political forces that committed themselves to a continuity of policies and there were political forces that committed themselves to a change of policies before the voters. The forces that have committed themselves to this continuity, Mrs and Mrs. Members have lost the absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic ; the forces which have committed themselves to a change of policy today have the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic. It's important we don't forget this. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] It is this, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who will mark this XIII Legislation irrespective of the will of the President of the Republic. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-23.u48	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for your speeches. We really live new times, different times. Not everything is as consensual in words as before, but political debate is the most important. And more important than words are acts. I can therefore say that it is with great pride that I believe that the great Portuguese tradition of the Constitution and democracy have been respected in this secret vote and with my election by secret vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief Conference of Leaders will be held in 5 minutes for the timing of next week's work. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 47 minutes.]]
