ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. As you all know, today we have, as a single item on the agenda, the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on matters of political, economic and social relevance in the framework set out in Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, meaning that the debate begins with a first intervention by the Prime Minister, following the round of parties, with the following order: PS, PCP, Left Block, The Greens, CDS-PP and PSD. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is public that during April Member States should bring their proposals for stability programmes to the European Commission, in the context of the European Semester, in the case of euro area countries, and convergence programmes for non-euro area countries, as well as national reform programmes, which should be aligned with the specific recommendations that the Commission and the Council make for each Member State or with the objectives of Europe 2020. The Portuguese Government, as is its responsibility, approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers, the two programmes: the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. We have done this in a politically broad way, inasmuch as we have sought to involve social actors, economic agents and, of course, parties with greater responsibility in their participation, thus starting in the parties with parliamentary representation. Everyone was asked to contribute to their strategies and ideas regarding the development of these European and national objectives for the next four years and with regard in particular to the Stability Programme, which is in some way the financial instrument that will be supporting these strategies, we also asked the parties with parliamentary seats to present their views. As I have pointed out in the last parliamentary debate, we will bring this debate to Parliament by next week. And it will be as a result of this debate, to be done by Parliament next Wednesday, which the Council of Ministers will close the documents the following day, meaning that there will always be some margin, of course, for adaptations to be introduced into the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme if the Government understands, following the parliamentary debate, that this is justified. The strategy lies in this case, like the honourable Members. Members know, to the government, but the government needs to develop this process with an extended level of participation. It makes sense, moreover, in any circumstance, that a process of these is as wide and as transparent as possible,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u3	... to the extent that the strategy, being submitted by the government, is always a national strategy and governments are never the owners of countries, it is their responsibility, but the strategy is national. However, it happens that we are at the end of our mandate and, to this extent, it makes sense, still redoubled, to listen to the opposition in this matter. We know that a legislative cycle will come to an end, that a new legislative cycle will begin, so there is therefore a need to put in the hearing and accountability of all political actors. Our assumption, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we drew up these two programmes, it was first of all not to abandon the rigour and budgetary discipline that must sustain the growth of the economy. In fact, to promote growth, we need to have budgetary credibility and economic credibility — without that there is no growth. And to abandon rigour and budgetary discipline prevents us from supporting debt and maintaining the credibility necessary to pursue an economic growth path. Secondly, the assumption that, since we have been advocates of this rigour to date, of this discipline, we are also in better conditions of power, already today, to look at a growth that, even one or two years ago, would seem, in general, unlikely. The perspective we have, therefore, is to reconcile responsibility with growth, and this is the fundamental mark of the macroeconomic scenario contained in the Stability Programme. We note a strengthening of domestic demand, with a more intensive recovery of investment, and some recovery with a tendency to stabilize for domestic consumption. However, our forecast is that net exports will continue to have a positive impact — although very modest but positive — on the budget outcome and therefore also help maintain an external surplus that we find essential. Our objective, which is within our reach, is, for the first time since we have integrated the single currency, not to have an excessive deficit and, more than that, to anticipate for 2016 — is our forecast — the medium-term objective that is not to have a structural deficit greater than 0, 5 % of the Product. This is what we expect will happen in 2016. at the end of the cycle, we expect even a slight budgetary surplus. The reduction in unemployment will follow this growth process, and — and perhaps the most disappointing result — we will not be able to achieve a level of unemployment of less than 10 % at the end of this cycle, i.e. a single digit. This means, therefore, that we will certainly still have to invest more in structural policies, in other structural policies, which expand our ability to reduce structural unemployment to values below 10%. The context of the measures that will enable us to achieve these results is known, was announced yesterday in the briefing of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of State and Finance. We will maintain budgetary discipline, undermining the extraordinary measures we have had to implement throughout the period of adjustment and economic and financial assistance. And this will be done gradually and will be done fairly in front of everyone: in front of public servants, in front of taxpayers in general and companies, particularly in front of the energy sector that was also particularly affected by the deficit reduction measures we had to use. We will seek, therefore, gradually to reduce, throughout the four-year period, the extraordinary measures that have been implemented, so that, at the end of the cycle, there is no evidence of restrictive measures justifying less growth than that which we can aspire to. We have also underlined our desire in the next Parliament to make use of the budgetary flexibility agreed by the interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact made by the European Union. to the extent that this flexibility should be used outside this legislature, we believe that we should only signal the intention and, in order for it not to be understood that there was some ambiguity in this government signaling, to list the areas in which we intend, if we have that responsibility, to negotiate such flexibility. This flexibility should be sought in such a way as: to be able to support social security reform that enables the capping of social security for new taxpayers; to make a progressive reduction in the tax and contribution costs of work with companies; and to use the flexibility clause associated with investment to further enhance the implementation of PETI 3 + and the Juncker Plan, i.e. the combination of these two programmes. We therefore believe that it is possible to use the responsibility that we have accumulated so far in order to benefit from the flexibility in carrying out these reforms. We have made it clear that we do not hide it, that the next four years also assume that, as a result of the social security reform, additional savings are identified, estimated at around 600 million euros. More: I said last summer that the Government, after the last lead of the Constitutional Court — the second on pension matters — would not reintroduce any such measures until the elections. Moreover, I invited the Socialist Party, before the elections, to understand the Government or the parties of the majority as to the design of a measure that meets the need to improve the sustainability mechanisms of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u4	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u5	I am concluding, Madam President. We know that the Socialist Party has decided that it would not do so, at least until the elections, I conclude. But, as the problem exists, and as I said, it is planned and there is our commitment to resolve it. The measure and the reform that will have to be done are open, to the extent that we maintain complete availability to find, with the greatest party of the opposition, the best solution to this issue. For this reason, in the Stability Programme, Madam President, we have considered, for forecast purposes, exactly the measure which has been plummeted. For there to be no discussion around this matter, this is the measure that will not be done. Any other modeling would presuppose the intention of the Government to close a negotiation before it even opened. We are therefore available to solve a problem worth EUR 600 million. We will, of course, do it with the Socialist Party or without the Socialist Party, but we think that we should do it as wide as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u6	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u7	I therefore conclude by saying that the country will have, over the next four years, in accordance with a macroeconomic scenario that we believe is responsible and balanced, the possibility of regaining a more robust growth than it has in recent years, resolving the main internal imbalances and meeting the expectations of the Portuguese, of having a recovery that may seem slow, but a recovery that will be safe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u8	It follows the question stage of the various parliamentary groups, the first of which is the Socialist Party. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, introduced here a different note from the statement by the Minister of Finance yesterday, saying that these two documents will be approved only next week, the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. In any event, it is clear that, regardless of whether they have already been approved or approved next week, these two programmes will only be responsible to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u10	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u11	And there is one thing that is interesting: that, having been approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers, it was normal that they had already entered the Assembly of the Republic today so that we could be at the same level of information in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u12	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u13	Mr Prime Minister knows a number of things we don't know and that doesn't seem very good for this debate. Of course there is a debate on this issue on Wednesday, but today's conclusion is that what happened last night and today is more propaganda than debate, it is more propaganda than information. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have heard so far about these documents is, in a way, a confession of impasse in which this government is exhausted. This is because it keeps the generality of the cuts close to the end of the next legislature and for the principle of the legislature it keeps what is the worst for the Portuguese, which is the cut in pensions. So far, we only know what the government seems to consider more positive. Well, if this is the most positive, imagine what will be the most negative, which is not yet in sight! Is that what you're talking about? [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a set of obsessions that remain in this government: obsession with the attack on pensions, the attack on social security and unconstitutionalities. It should be noted that the cut of 600 million in 2016, as noted yesterday by the Minister of Finance, is quite higher than the last that was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and that it was « only» 372 million. You're seeing how far you want to take this cut in pensions, clearly unconstitutional cut! Therefore, the government programme, because it is the programme that the government is presenting for the elections and for the next four years, is a programme that threatens new attacks on pensioners. we have no doubt about that. Note that the thing is so confusing that pensioners with higher incomes, who are still penalized today with an extraordinary contribution of solidarity, you say that they will get this worsening in 2017, but in 2016 they will worsen for these and others. More fucked up than this is not possible! And Mr. Prime Minister comes to say that only by exercise does he put the previous measure which has been plunged into the Constitutional Court and then challenges it to invent another. Mr. Prime Minister, we're not really here in a joke. It does not make sense to be putting a measure which has been clearly plunged and judged unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court to try to seek these 600 million euros. What we have seen is that there is a certain political and social insanity throughout this programme, as has been announced so far. The government lost the north: a week ago, it said it was going down to TSU and now announces cuts in pensions; a month ago, it said it had full safes and now promises austerity to pensioners as early as 2016. In 2016 the bad and then in 2017, 2018 and 2019 returning something convinced that they are ruling and that they can do the management of the electoral circle, as they tried to do this time with a bad result, as we will see. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister does not appreciate children's stories,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u14	I even think they're very educational!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u15	... but this exercise, because it talks until 2019, is a bit of an accounting joke. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Make sure the PSD and the CDS win the elections, make sure that Passos Coelho is the Prime Minister, make sure that the opposition is pleasing to you in that circumstance, make the count that it is Cavaco Silva that will continue for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 as President of the Republic... It is an exercise of the face-of-the-count! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I would say, in fact, Cavaco Silva, I would also like to say: that it is worth cutting everything off to pensioners in 2016 and then trying to give some little leftovers for the years to come. « The tomorrows that sing» in the deficit come in 2019, but unfortunately there is no « tomorrows that sing» for unemployment. in the deficit, we would even have a positive balance, an extraordinary thing for a country that in 2019 would have an unemployment rate of more than 10 %. You prefer to have a positive balance in the budget, but keep the unemployment rate above 10 or 11 %, as is the case in the Programme. We are going to look deeply and seriously at the document and, when we have it, because all of this is talk so far, we will certainly present a draft resolution, as the PSD and the CDS have urged us to do even before the final approval by the Council of Ministers next week. So next Tuesday, the Socialist Party will present its macroeconomic reference framework. I just wanted to say, Mr. Prime Minister, that, for PS and for Country, 2016 is not the beginning of the end of austerity, is the end of austerity as a principle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u16	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u17	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, in fact, there is no nuance between what I said and what the Minister of State and Finance said yesterday. It has been very clear since yesterday that the document will be closed in the Council of Ministers next week after the parliamentary debate. Therefore, you will have every opportunity, from now on, when the document comes to Parliament, to be able to prepare for this debate. Mr President, no doubt you will be able to hold this debate. It was the government who indicated that he wanted to do it here in Parliament, and he will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u19	Mr President, I do not think there is any doubt as to the fact that as Prime Minister I do not want to steal to communicate to Parliament what was adopted yesterday in its general lines. We will have the opportunity to have the debate in Parliament next week, if you wish, in a more thorough way. But, Mr President, in view of what I have said, I want to say the following. First of all, we have a clear notion of what is the deficit in social security within the pension system. The Socialist Party is not available to resolve this problem. We have always said that this problem exists and needs to be resolved. We cannot, of course, accuse this government of not trying to solve it. Now, Mr President, we will not fail to look at this challenge in an open way and therefore reject any remark that has made regarding any contradiction to the intentions of the Government. on the contrary, the government is being very consistent in what it has always said. We have a problem of financing social security within the pension system. This was recognized by the Constitutional Court's own judgment, which is set out in the Court of Auditors'decisions, I know - everyone knows that. There is a difference: the government does not wait for the elections to say that there is this problem and that it has to be solved and you are apparently waiting for the elections and for the result to recognize this problem. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Or are you able to say here that if the Socialist Party wins the elections, will it not present any measure in the area of sustainability of social security and pensions? Oh, my God! I would like you to say that. Secondly, there is no trick, Mr President; on the contrary, there is a lot of transparency. All the difficult measures we have had to take during these years will be progressively removed. I do not see what this lacks clarity or nonsense; on the contrary, what is assumed in the Stability Programme is exactly what I have repeatedly reaffirmed in this Parliament. The assumptions are all there, which means, Mr President, that this Stability Programme is not a question for the elections, it is a natural consequence of what the Prime Minister has always said on those matters, either in wage replacement, or in the way in which the overtax should be progressively removed, or relatively, as it can only be, to all other extraordinary measures, because they have an extraordinary character and I have always said that what is extraordinary must disappear as we normalise our budgetary problem. If there is a problem of sustainability in pensions that is structural, this measure must be structural. Therefore, there is no incompatibility between removing measures of an extraordinary nature with the adoption of measures or structural reforms, and you know that. When the honourable Member says that we are running the electoral cycle, let me say that he expected a little more restraint from the Socialist Party. The 2009 elections have not been for so many years that we have forgotten what the Socialist Party Government did in 2009 before the elections: it has dropped taxes and increased wages to cut them after the elections and, above all, external assistance, Mr President! So don't tell me about electoral cycle management, please. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Nor will I make any reference to the « singing tomorrows », because, honourable Member, they certainly never went around here. As for political and social insanity, I would like to say the following: political and social insanity was to insist on policies leading the country back to bankruptcy. That would be political and social insanity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That's it, we don't. We do what a responsible government must do. And we do not do it instead of anyone, we do it according to the responsibilities we have. The country must present these documents and present them like all others in Brussels. Members of the European Union are required to submit these strategy papers within the European Semester. Clearly, if electoral cycles are to determine political changes in their countries, their governments are in a position to introduce the corrections they understand. That is the most democratic and natural thing in the world. Now we have done the exercise in accordance with what we have been committed to, there is nothing surprising to the honourable Member. But you can still surprise us, because you can say how you can do better, how you can remove extraordinary measures more quickly, how they are financed and how you achieve the objectives. Who is always delaying the date on which these measures are communicated to the country is the Socialist Party, not the Government, which fulfils the timetables that are defined. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, you have a good opportunity here to be able to say what you have not said so far, nor when the Socialist Party was invited to speak on the PNR (Renewal National Party), nor when you were invited to speak on the Stability Programme, because of course the Socialist Party has a different cycle than that of the Country. But that, the country already knows, and perhaps it is not for that reason that people will not be more attentive to what will happen. I think so. But also, Mr President, you have more responsibility to say a little more than to accuse the government of, at the same time, making electoralist management of the political cycle and saying that you want to pursue austerity policies. That, yes, honourable Member, does not seem political health to me. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u20	Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the current situation of social security, the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support of the Assembly of the Republic, came a few days ago to say that it was social security that made a positive contribution to reducing the deficit a little more than was expected during this year. It does not mean that there are no problems for the future, but that is the reality of the facts. That and the cuts in public investment that you have brutally made during the past year. However, you have said nothing to us about a number of issues, such as those relating to social expenditure and the positions of the PS on macroeconomic matters, and I hope for Tuesday that you will have a framework which may be quite useful to your Thursday's Council of Ministers, since the Socialist Party's position will be expressed in a very developed way. On social expenditure, we are very concerned, especially with the health situation. We can't pretend we don't see anything. A week ago, there was a television report showing, in 15 emergency services in the country, a situation of fearsome indignity for patients in emergencies, out of winter and out of the peak of the flu. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is: lack of doctors; lack of nurses; despair on the part of professionals, who want to do better and cannot; work too much; 15 hospitals whose scenario some say is war and others say it is like an earthquake, a catastrophe; monkeys scattered by runners with hundreds of people; lack of hygiene; lack of fundamental materials. Finally, a situation of terrible gravity. I hope that Mr. Prime Minister, who was laughing, saw this documentary. It is not possible to pass a documentary with that gravity and the Prime Minister has not seen it, the Minister of Health has made no comment and has made the Secretary of State say the following: « What we saw were good people installed. Emergency services in Portugal work very well». Do you agree, Prime Minister? Didn't you see the documentary? Didn't you see the report? If you have not seen it, it is better to see it and, after seeing it, you have to tell us here next time if you agree with this assessment made by a member of your government. You are responsible for this brutal deterioration that is happening in the National Health Service, for this indignity against people's lives, for this brutal dehumanization of emergencies. It's your responsibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u22	Mr. Prime Minister, you still have time to answer. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u23	Mr President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I have sought, in all I can, to always increase the quality of our parliamentary debate... [[PS protests.]] ... and I must say that I am quite surprised that you want to discuss television reports in our parliamentary debate. [[PS protests.]] It surprises me, Mr. Deputies. Surprise me! Don't hurt me! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u24	It's reality! It's life out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u25	But, Mr President, I will respond to your concern about the question of social expenditure. Before that, I wanted to tell you that I expected you to have answered the questions that I raised to you, which you will not do now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u26	It's not the opposition that answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u27	So we will wait a few more days to know the answers that the Socialist Party will give us. Mr. Deputies, on social expenditure is wrong. We maintain a social concern according to the obligation of a modern and developed State. Despite the very difficult circumstances in which we live, since, throughout the period of financial assistance, we have a closed envelope, undervalued for the real needs of the state's expenditure, we have managed, despite these restrictions, to ensure that our automatic stabilizers operate without any restrictions. And that has not applied to other countries, as you know. There were countries that could not freely apply the automatic stabilizers, and we did it! And we did it in order to protect not only those who had the greatest vulnerabilities, but also social expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u28	What do you have to say about the report? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u29	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, this means that, despite the restrictions, we have managed to make investment and, more than that, we have managed to pay debt in the social and health areas. We have already done this debate here, and you know that and you cannot dispute it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u30	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u31	I thought the honourable Member, who asked me if I had seen a television report, if I were pleased that we had, according to what we had promised, opened a competition to fill vacancies in careers of technical assistant and operational technician within hospitals, to have launched about 1000 new contracts in the area of special nursing career...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u32	Mr. Prime Minister, you should comment on the report! It was the least!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u33	I understand, Madam President, that the minimums of Mr. Members are considerably high, given the financial circumstances left by the country. But, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos and Mr Ferro Rodrigues, that is exactly why it is worth everything that has been achieved in the social area. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u34	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u35	I shall conclude, Madam President. contrary to what you said, we were able to protect health, we were able to protect the social area, we were able to protect education. And that, sir, is work after the rescue we have been subjected to! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u36	Where is your mental health, Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u37	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, the presentation of his so-called ‘Stability Programme’ — and it does not stop being curious that the word ‘growth’ has fallen from the title — and taking into account its announced content, because there is no evidence yet, leads to a conclusion: the propaganda going around there, that of growth, that of the country turning around, that of more employment, after all, was propaganda, of reliable conversation. The truth is that the outline of this document shows that the government has no solutions for the country and much less for its problems. It is a government that has reached the end of a cycle. We made an inquiry last week that proved that we were right. The Government, with this programme or plan, is essentially continuing the same policy with the same objectives. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to start with an issue that I think is important. This document proves that the Government has deceived the Portuguese, seeking to finalize what was announced as provisional.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u40	How? First, it was for three years; now, it is for five more. Explain there, Prime Minister: does this not end? Is it always the drag? Is it always saying that we're going to eliminate these cuts and then apply another five years? Oh, my God! Fortunately, Mr. Prime Minister will not be here, that is, here in the government, obviously—...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u41	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u42	... I wish you no harm — but this is a clear strategy of transforming what you announced to the Portuguese as provisional.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u44	The content of the document leads to the idea, which we have stated, that this Government has two weights and two measures. It has measures to maintain cuts in wages by 2019, such as: a cut of more than 600 million euros in reforms and pensions ; a cut of EUR 400 million in public services ; in relation to the extraordinary overtax, they want to keep it - by 2019, but hide that - and one of the government parties announced last week that the IRS tax burden has to be reduced - according to this document, if they maintain a brutal tax burden,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u45	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u46	... but — and therefore I say that the content of the document leads to the idea that this government has two weights and two measures — curiously, for example, in relation to IRC they fall by 1 % every year by 2019, leaving 17 %, or in relation to the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector is eliminated in two years. Mr. Prime Minister, answer what you say, you can do the reading you want, what is shown here is that, for those who work and for those who have worked, punitive measures and continuation of sacrifices and for the great interests, for the economic groups, for them, bites, advantages and privileges. Say I'm not right, Prime Minister. It shows that there are no two pesos and two measures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u48	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the Stability Programme is so designated because it is your name. But there has been no growth, because in the Stability Programme there is a forecast of growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u49	That program could even predict rain by tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u50	So you are not concerned, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, because the growth forecast is in the programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u51	I just thought it was funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u52	in fact, you have to organize a little better, not bad, your political argument. We cannot say that we want, at the end of the cycle, to maintain the same policy, with the same objective, which is to continue with austerity, to worsen the difficulties before people, but then to come to say implicitly that we will gradually remove—because we are going! — the overtax and we are going to lower the IRC as planned. We will therefore degrade in a general way what you said we would worsen or maintain. In other words, it is the opposite of what you said and, more than that, it is in accordance with what we have always said we were going to do. So there is no surprise from this point of view. When, last year, we brought here the question of salaries to the Public Administration autonomously, we clearly said that we would make the salary replacement over four years so that there would no longer be any restrictions on wages in the fifth year. That's what we said, and we did it last year. You cannot say, with regard to a law that has been voted on in Parliament, that it is not consistent with what we are presenting today, because it is exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u53	Do you remember what the Constitutional Court said? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u54	Mr President, let us gradually remove the cuts, as we said we would do, and we hope, of course, that this will be considered constitutional. We will not fail to do so in the same terms as we did by 2015, so that there are no doubts or uncertainties on the constitutionality of the measure by the Portuguese. That will be the same, Mr President. We shall do this through Parliament's law and in the same terms, as we have said. And the Constitutional Court did not say that this could not be done for the future; rather, it said that it could not evaluate future scenarios unless it was faced with them. And it will be, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u56	Let us do so within the logic that we are removing wage cuts, according to what we said we would. This is what I call consistency. And we are going to do so in a systematic way in relation to everything that is extraordinary. however, there were structural reforms. For example, we did not aggravate IRC in an extraordinary way, but we are downloading IRC in a structural way, attracting investment and attracting more jobs. That's it, we're doing it. There have been several structural reforms which have been made, Mr. The negotiation of all contracts with PPPs (public-private partnerships), especially in the road area, is truly a structural change because it enables the State to save up to EUR 7500 million, which will remain forever during the life of contracts. That's structural, Mr. Deputies. We attacked these rents, as we did in the pharmaceutical sector, in the energy sector. So we distributed, as it is usually said, the sacrifices on many sides and sought to go structurally where there were incomes and where there were privileges. That is what we have done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u57	EDP's profits say otherwise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u58	As such, I think we have some authority to now be able to say that we will not degrade one another more than others. We are going to do so in the same period, removing everything that has been extraordinary measures, which will still enable us to achieve our objectives, because we have done so much to ensure that these objectives are within our reach. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u59	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is not just a suspicion. It is the first time that Mr President announced that extraordinary measures would last for three years and, when he reached the end of these three years, what you did was to extend for five more years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u62	How do you want the workers, the reformed, finally, the Portuguese people to believe in his word if they did not fulfill it when it was to comply, correcting the cuts and the withdrawal of rights that happened at that time? He has no credibility, Mr Prime Minister, because he deceived the Portuguese, insofar as it was for a specific period and is after all for another five years. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question related to the draft document that was announced yesterday. There are two percentage points in unemployment in five years. Mr. Prime Minister, five years? What does that mean? What will this million Portuguese people, who, in their view, will continue to be unemployed, do to their lives? Is this the alternative proposal they find? Oh, my God! A reduction of two percentage points which would mean that this country would only be able to have a sustainable and necessary level of employment in the next 30 years? It would take 30 years to achieve this necessary and sustainable employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u63	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u64	That is why we continue to consider, listening to you, Prime Minister, that of course this government has reached the end of the cycle. Their proposals are more than the same and they seek to drag this country into disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u66	This government has no solutions and therefore Mr Prime Minister, not relying on promises that you have not fulfilled in relation to these cuts in relation to unemployment, we see the future with deep concern. Fortunately, we have an advantage: this government will not last long. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u67	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u68	Madam President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you said that there is a sense of end of cycle and that the government is dragging the country into disaster. Is the disaster the growth of the economy that we are living in 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u69	All right! Well asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u70	Is it the growth of 2014? Is the growth expected for 2016? Is disaster the growth of the economy? Is it reducing unemployment? Is it the removal of extraordinary measures that penalized taxpayers? Is that the disaster, sir? I believe that the speech of the honourable Member is against reality. [[PCP laughter.]] The country is growing and the honourable Member says: « They are driving the country to disaster». How does someone who has led the country to growth lead you to disaster, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! See the unrealism of your statements. The honourable Member could say that our expectations could be a more vigorous growth, that we could be more ambitious in terms of unemployment decline. We can discuss this, Mr. Member, but you cannot say that the country is being driven to disaster when we remove the country from the disaster... [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u71	...and the country is growing. How is it possible to make this statement? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member said that there was a sort of confusion here, since we had told the country that the measures were only for the duration of the PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ). There is no one in Portugal who does not know that the Government has always said that during financial assistance it could not fail to comply with the Memorandum and that the removal of these measures would be done gradually, but from the end of the programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u72	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u73	False! It is written in the State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u74	And there you are, Mr. Deputies. I must remind the honourable Member that it was just after the end of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme that we started to remove cuts in public service. This year, we are already removing cuts by 20 %, is the first PAEF anopos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u75	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u76	I conclude now, Madam President. We are doing well, Mr President, but I agree with you, and I said that in my initial speech, in which we need to be more ambitious in terms of unemployment. I fully agree with the honourable Member and I would like to say in this House, as I have already said, that I cannot hammer the numbers, I cannot create fiction, as it is obvious, but, if we are not satisfied with the results we are forecasting, this obliges all of us to put even more bold policies from a structural point of view. But I don't know if you're in favour of measures that promote employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u77	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u78	... or that, manifestly, they defend a higher structural rate of unemployment. Especially when we discuss the structural factors of the Portuguese economy, we do not have the same view. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u79	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u80	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, even in the unrealistic framework which has brought us here over the next four years to reduce the deficit more than it has reduced in the last four years in which it imposed so many sacrifices, your Government plans that unemployment will remain up to 10 % by 2019, i.e. that even with immigration, even with the stages, even with those with whom it is disincentived, we will have 10 % unemployment. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the first to assume the failure of your policy. What the Minister of Finance presented yesterday and what Mr Prime Minister has said to us today is that what they have failed, is that, in fact, not only austerity measures will continue, as, above all, it is a redoubled austerity, because more austerity measures exist. Mr Prime Minister, there is a very simple question that I think we all need to see answered, when we see that Mr Prime Minister wants to cut 600 million euros in pensions. It is that, see, 600 million euros is a value close to that which in 2013 was plunged by the Constitutional Court in pension cuts. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister now arrives here with his growth trajectory, as he likes to call it, saying that he has to cut into pensions 600 million euros, almost the same as in 2013. Mr. Prime Minister, then, the Country of the full safes in which is it distinguished from the Country of the empty safes? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u81	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u82	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the picture I brought here is the most realistic I could bring. For the same reason, it foresees a progressive removal of what were restrictions that the country has known and not an abrupt removal, very inviting for an election period. Therefore, the framework is realistic enough not to give in to temptation or ease of promising what the government knows it cannot do. This realistic picture has forecasts of economic growth that are not 3, 3, 5 or 4 %, as I would like, are 2 or 2, 5 %, as I think it is realistic to have. We want to have more, but for this we need to align more policies as we implement the current ones and alleviate some restrictions of the Portuguese economy, not just the state. But, honourable Member, we are working on this, so that we can be more ambitious in growth and in order to be more ambitious, as I said here, in the fall of unemployment. We know that this also involves adopting structural measures. The honourable Member says: « But austerity is redoubled because you want to cut 600 million in pensions». No, ma'am! Yesterday the Minister for Finance said this and I will say this again in Parliament: we do not want to cut 600 million in pensions; we have a problem of sustainability in social security because of public pensions and we will find a solution to this in order for the Constitutional Court to consider the solution acceptable. Our first response is known, it was to solve the problem where he was in public pensions, but the Constitutional Court believes that this solution is not acceptable, it has to be a cross-cutting solution in social security, and we are open to discussing it and doing so. This may, however, include measures on the side of expenditure, measures on the side of revenue, a mix of both, according to what was initially stipulated or in a completely different way. We are totally open to that, but we have this problem and we have to solve it. That is what the Socialist Party refuses to acknowledge, however, knowing that the "elephant is in the room" and that the problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u84	And that is not to solve the problem of next year's deficit, it is to solve the problem of pension sustainability. It is a structural problem that needs to be solved, Mrs Deputies, and that is what the Government will obviously try to do in the most consensual way possible, so that, whatever the solution, there is an extended respect for the need to protect the lowest pensions, the generality of pensioners and all these conditions that have no doubt in our political debate. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at the problem of pension sustainability. I don't know if this, from your point of view, has anything of electoralist or structural bad news, but the problem exists. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u85	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u86	Mr President, Prime Minister, the sustainability of social security is a subject we want to discuss. The Government has made many proposals that attack the sustainability of social security and I don't know if we have time to address it today, but there is one thing that is certain: Mr. Prime Minister asked all the sacrifices to whom he worked his whole life on behalf of improving the country's economy, and who is a pensioner not only had to cut in pensions as he had to welcome his children who were unemployed with the policies of his government. Now, Mr. Prime Minister comes here to tell us that everything is better, that the safes are full and then we will cut into the pensions as much or more as we cut in 2013. Mr. Prime Minister, in people's pockets, in respect for the dignity of those who have worked for a lifetime, your government has only one answer: cut, cut. And don't tell us that the sacrifices were for everyone because they weren't, either at the time of the cuts or at the time of relief of the cuts, as Mr. Prime Minister likes to say. This is because what we heard yesterday was that extraordinary overtaxes would be kept, but we also heard two other things. The government has announced, magnanimously, the decline of two supertaxes. So let's see what are the reductions in the extraordinary overtaxes Mr. Prime Minister and Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque have announced: the overtax paid by those who work goes down 25 %, but the overtax paid by large energy companies, that goes down by 50 %. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you see any inequality in the distribution of these sacrifices here? Are the protected sectors finished, Prime Minister? Give this cake to large energy companies while those who work will keep the overtax as it is, practically! Mr. Prime Minister, for you, for your government, is salary a privilege? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u88	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, you are asking questions that are going to become a little repetitive. Don't take this comment wrong, but you're always repeating the same phrases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u89	The answers are always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u90	But, Madam President, first of all let me tell you that we have justly attacked, and with structural policies, the protected sectors of the economy. I said it here a little while ago. We have made a reduction in the cost of PPPs worth the life of contracts, which no government has ever done, which could reach almost EUR 7500 million in nominal terms. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we have attacked this sector, and also in energy, where, in order to end the tariff deficit, we have adopted measures of around EUR 3400 million, if memory does not attract me, and in a permanent way, Mrs Deputy. But we have done more: for this year, we have even guaranteed an effective reduction in natural gas tariffs. It was announced yesterday by the regulator, Mrs. Is it known that the contracts that Galp holds in natural gas will be the target of a contribution that ensures the fall in prices of gas tariffs, and you say that we did not attack those sectors, those companies that were in protected sectors? Mrs. Member, look at the evidence, because this is denied by the evidence. Now, extraordinary measures will be gradually removed for everyone. It's for everyone and practically at the same pace.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u91	For some more than for others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u92	So there's no inequality here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u93	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u94	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are here in a sort of wordplay, but let's go to what counts in people's lives: wages and pensions with cuts, the bills of light and energy always rising. Let us be clear about the nature of the policies of this government, because they do not lie and if there is a feature that the policies of your government have, if there is a reform that this government has made in the country, has been the payoff and has been the lower cost of work. In Portugal, labour costs are already less than half as much as in neighbouring Spain, much less than the euro area average, and we do not forget that the government, which recognizes that there is a problem of social security sustainability, has, under the carton, to get out when the measure of going down to TSU is not known. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you are able to tell me how many jobs you need to create to compensate for a decline in the TSU of 2 percentage points companies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u95	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u96	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is not worth insisting. We are restoring wages this year, we are lowering taxes on natural people already this year, so your complaint that we are making the Portuguese situation worse is false. On the other hand, the honourable Member says: 'Well, the unit costs of work have come down. What a scandal! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs Deputy, while they went up above the average of productivity and our external competitors, the country became indebted and lost competitiveness. Therefore, it is on the contrary, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u97	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u98	I am sorry to conclude that Mrs Deputies has been reporting as negative what enables the country to gain competitiveness. Thirdly, Mrs Deputy, during this period, we managed to get the Portuguese to understand that the recovery of our economy is related to the sustainability of our public accounts. We do not want to question this process and that is why we are creating a process of indebtedness. The problem we have on the side of the attractiveness of investment is being dealt with on many fronts, but from a fiscal and contribution point of view, it is still incomplete. from a fiscal point of view, it is being treated through IRC, but it should be treated from a contribution point of view. The honourable Member will certainly know that the Government has expressed its intention, in the next legislature, to revisit this issue. We have not drawn up a measure but we have an objective, which is to reconcile the contribution to businesses, in order to make job creation more attractive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u99	How many jobs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u100	... with the creation of mechanisms to ensure better safety at work and therefore a greater fight against precariousness. We shall, in due course, present a measure combining these two concerns. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u101	Mrs Catarina Martins still has time, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u102	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you concrete questions and Mr Prime Minister answers me with wordplay. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u103	Compensating the decline in the TSU of enterprises, on two percentage points, with job creation, requires the creation of 320 000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u104	It depends on wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u105	Mr Prime Minister, with this measure, will you promise us the creation of 320 000 jobs or, indeed, this means only the same as always, that this government does everything, but everything, to give to big businesses while doing everything, but everything, to withdraw from wages in Portugal? Oh, my God! You know, Prime Minister, IRS has grown 30 %, but IRC, the profit tax of large companies, has already come down twice and you are promising to drop it a third time. And every time you make a promise to companies you are making a threat to those who live in your work in this country. I do not forget that Mr. Prime Minister has just said that he found a scandal of wages... Well, the average salary is at 581 €, according to the Salary Guarantee Fund... But speaking of scandals, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u106	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u107	Finally, Madam President, with the same tolerance as Mr. Prime Minister, hoping that later in those questions and answers combined with the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u108	Look, no, we didn't combine anything! This, here, is not the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u109	...find time to answer me, I'm going back to the question of health and television reporting, that Mr. Prime Minister doesn't like it very much. The Secretary of State for Health, looking at the report, said: « What I saw was that emergency services in Portugal work very well. What we saw were well-installed people». Mr. Prime Minister, I present to you here these photos: are you seeing here an emergency service that works well, are you seeing well-installed people here? Oh, my God! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in health, they have also done many games of words and numbers, but, you know, Mr. Prime Minister, some people can be deceived all the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u110	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u111	... may even deceive everyone, like some people, all the time, but what Mr. Prime Minister cannot, in health as in the country, is to continue to deceive everyone all the time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u112	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u113	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in his initial speech, said that the measures that the Government presented in these programmes meet the expectations of the Portuguese. I believe that the Prime Minister is heavily mistaken, because the expectations of the Portuguese people, according to what the Government itself announced, were that these transitional measures, which would harm them greatly, would end at the end of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, and that is not what happened. This was the word of the Government, but then the government came back with the floor and there is nothing, absolutely nothing to guarantee that from now on, the government will not go back again and will not add any more harm to it. What did the government announce? It announced that, even if there is a different weight, wage cuts and overtaxing in the IRS for another legislature, I repeat, a legislature; that there are more cuts in pensions of EUR 600 million, and cuts in public services of EUR 400 million, it also reads redundancies in the public service. This is not the expectations of the Portuguese, Prime Minister! Now, at the same time, what does the government announce? It announces that it will continue to download IRC to large companies. They got away! These rags are always, Mr. Prime Minister, every year, until 2019, with 17 %! Announce further what? The end of the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector. Question: Why? Is the government in a position to lose 150 million euros a year? Oh, my God! Don't! This rate should not be extraordinary, it should be final! Why isn't it? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, there are things here that, in fact, cannot be understood. Mr Prime Minister came to say: « We have downloaded the IRC so that companies can create jobs ». But with your expectations regarding unemployment, this reading cannot be done, because unemployment in 2019 remains above 11 %. But what is the effectiveness of these measures? It's none! As for the sustainability of social security, I will leave it for a second intervention, because I have little time left. But, Prime Minister, if you really want to discuss the sustainability of social security rigorously, let's talk about birth, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u114	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u115	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, Mrs Deputy has raised exactly the same sort of questions as Mrs Catarina Martins...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u116	Of course, those are the ones that matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u117	...and I thank you for that, because it allows me to say a little more, given the temporary restriction. The macroeconomic framework, Mr. Deputy says, cannot meet the expectations of Portuguese, because the expectations of Portuguese were that everything, everything, was removed after 2015. Mrs Deputy, I assure you that this is not the expectations of the Portuguese, but it is not, above all, the expectation that the Government has created with the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u118	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u119	It's not, no, Mrs. Deputy! I recently reminded you that last year the Government presented here, in the House, a bill, which was passed, where it was expected that the salary replacement would be made at 20 % a year. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mr. Deputy, but that was the case. It doesn't look like it was like that, but it was! We have communicated this, Parliament has discussed, the whole country knows, we are doing what we said we were going to do, we are gradually removing restrictions on wages. But the honourable Member says that we are removing more for businesses than for people. That's not true. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Why can I tell you why, Your Honor? For example, for companies with higher results, at increasing intervals of positive results, there is an overtax, which works as a state spill, ranging from 3 %, 5 % to up to 7 % of aggravation. She's staying, Mrs. Deputy! About companies, keep up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u120	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u121	And why do you keep it, Mrs. Deputy? Because we prefer to extend the basis of the IRC downturn to catch small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore make investment much more attractive, the creation of new businesses and therefore again employment, than to relieve large companies, which have more significant results. This overtax, in large companies, will remain, but the overtax in the IRS will disappear. You see, Mrs. Member, how are we not doing what you said? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u122	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u123	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am challenging you: bring down the IRC alone and exclusively for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and for them alone, and you have the possibility to alleviate the economic conditions of Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u124	The criterion is profit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u125	It also maintains the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector and is able to alleviate the economic conditions of Portuguese families. And it is about these economic conditions that we are going to have to talk about, because if Mr Prime Minister comes here to talk about the sustainability of social security, but he does not want to talk about what we have been talking about here this week, seriously, which is about birth, which is obviously linked to the economic conditions of families, you are simply ruining the future sustainability of social security. It is that you, by withdrawing economic conditions from families, do not reverse the low birth rate trend in the country. They can't do that! They are based on theory, on discursive logic, and in practice nothing will happen. You continue to overburden Portuguese families and what they say is the following: "If perhaps they vote in us,..." — Mr. Prime Minister says until it was even better alone, and I don't know what you think. Members of the CDS on the subject, but that, now, does not come to the case either —... [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u126	If it doesn't come to the case right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u127	Are you guys going to vote alone or with the PCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u128	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u129	... «... we will maintain this logic of austerity in the next legislature ». The Portuguese answer will perhaps be this: 'We will not vote for you, because we do not want any more austerity in the next legislature'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u130	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u131	Even to finish, Madam President, we are reaching the end of the legislature — now, Prime Minister, see if you do not remember to promise this — and you have not yet delivered the plan of action to monitor and remove asbestos in public buildings. They were on the list and the action plan still does not exist. Please see if you are working until the end of the Legislature, Prime Minister, and present in the short term this plan of action to monitor and remove asbestos in public buildings. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u132	Mr. Prime Minister, you still have some time, so you have the floor, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u133	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we cannot download the IRC to one company and not go down to the other, it would not be constitutional. But we have ways of modeling taxes, so that we can achieve close objectives. That's why I told you we have an overtax that's applied...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u134	to profit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u135	... companies with profits above a certain amount and all those with profits above that amount have this overtax. As the amount is the highest, companies with more profits pay more. That's the way it is, Mrs. Deputy. But then we do something else: we found a simplified scheme for SMEs up to a certain turnover, where we fixed the IRC by 17 %. Therefore, those companies that are actually at a lower level end up having a lighter taxation due to this simplified scheme. But for example, we are exempt from taxation, as regards IRC, start-ups and start-ups, which have made investments that need to be recovered. Your profits will not be taxed, to allow the depreciation of these investments. We are encouraging the creation of new companies. Madam Member, I should like to congratulate you, because at least you have made an effort to put alternatives on the table, saying: "Why doesn't you do this? Why don't you get salted? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I welcome this, Mrs Deputies, because it is not unusual here in Parliament to oppose it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u136	However, by praising your very concrete way of asking the questions, I must repeat them, explaining to the honourable Member that we are already doing this. On the issue of birth, Mrs Deputy, it is the opposite. The Government recognises that much needs to be done in terms of birth, but there is a strategy for birth, which, moreover, has been discussed here in Parliament at the initiative of the majority, there have been proposals from the other parties and we have already started this process, from a fiscal point of view, disaggravating the IRS for families with more members in charge. This is already being implemented in 2015 and will be promoted in several other areas in subsequent years. We are not exacerbating the burden on the families, Mrs. Member, we are unburdening her! That is why the accusation that you would like to make — and which, in a way, does — does not conflict with the reality of what has been the action of the Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am sorry, Madam President, but in less than a minute, I would still like to reply to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia on the question of asbestos. I would like to say to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia that the Government has presented a strategy for this matter. It was, moreover, advertised and there is a working group that is accompanying the removal work of asbestos. In fact, the honourable Member has had the opportunity to question the government about the implementation of this sector-by-sector removal; it is not being done homogenously in all sectors but is being done. I would also like to say that you did not ask me today, but you asked me at the last debate, about what the government is going to do about glyphosate. Do you remember, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u137	I remember, I remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u138	It's true. The honourable Member today has probably forgotten this issue, because I have not been able to answer it. But, with the tolerance of Mrs President, I shall quickly tell the honourable Member that we are very attentive to this matter. There is no evidence that there can be contamination, although it has been signaled by the World Health Organization, the probable risk that this could happen. The European Commission has not yet taken any position, but we will start an investigation into this matter and, if we conclude that this is the case, we will not stop taking measures to protect public health in this area. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the intervention of the CDS-PP. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u140	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the theme which you have chosen and brought to us today, the National Reform Plan and the Stability Programme, is an issue that for the first time in your mandate Mr Prime Minister brings to this House, which could in some way raise some doubts. Why is this the first time that the Prime Minister has brought this issue to a fortnightly debate? Just because I couldn't do it before! And I couldn't do it why? Because Portugal was previously under an economic and financial assistance programme. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u141	A Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance, a rescue requested by the Socialist Party, negotiated by the Socialist Party, signed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u143	And where was the CDS? I wasn't here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u144	Now, Prime Minister, the first thing I wanted to say is that only the fact that I can bring here this Plan and this Programme is, in itself, good news, and I would advise more humility and more sense of commitment from those who brought us here, the Socialist Party. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u145	It is therefore important today to make a kind of « before and after » : in 2011 we had the troika in Portugal, an excessive deficit procedure, threat of sanctions, threat of government debt cuts, a deficit above 10 %, and of course rigidity in the policies imposed by our creditors. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] Today, Prime Minister, four years back, we don't have the troika, we don't have excessive deficit procedure, we don't have a threat of sanctions, we repay debts to save interest. And because we meet the goals, despite the will of some of us not to do so, we can now ask for flexibility in the measures we are presenting in these programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u147	from the stiffness of a hard rescue, we passed on to the flexibility of those who did. And what is this flexibility and what is the impact on the lives of taxpayers, families and businesses? I stress, from the very beginning and on the head, a very important fact for us, CDS : the government yesterday decreed "death certificate" to the overtax of the IRS. I'm glad you did, it's an essential matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u149	In 2015, with the tax credit, we started this process. Then a phased reduction: 2016, minus IRS; 2017, minus IRS; 2018, minus IRS; 2019, disappears the overtax, with the last share of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u150	Great! It's fantastic! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u151	It's phased, it's realistic, it's what we can! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u152	For companies, for all companies, Mr. Prime Minister, what also changes with this plan? We have heard here about the large, small and medium-sized enterprises, but, as Mr Prime Minister said, and well, not only would such a discriminatory measure be unconstitutional, as some Members of this House seem to forget that the Portuguese business fabric, according to INE data, is made up of more than 90 % by small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u154	Now, if we go down the IRC to companies, we go down the IRC to more than 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a matter of mathematics, it doesn't seem to have much controversy. I would also like to tell you that this objective is also essential. We found the country with an IRC of 25%, the highest in Europe, left by the Socialist Party, we managed to reduce it to 21% and there is the target of 17%. That's important. It is not an ideological or programmatic issue, that it is necessary, with this, to make the country more competitive, in order to capture more investment and thus create more employment, thus combating unemployment. It's not ideology, it's pragmatism! Interestingly, Mr. Prime Minister, from the moment the IRC, the corporate tax, began to drop, the truth is that the investment began to rise. And then, yes, the investment began to rise to higher levels, only comparable to 1999, 15 years ago. The phased and gradual replacement of public service salaries above € 1500 also gives an effective recovery of purchasing power and a horizon of hope to public employees for wages. It seems that we have seen a sort of collective amnesia here on the opposition side, because they have come to speak to the Prime Minister as if it were a measure announced yesterday by the Minister of State and Finance, as if here in the Assembly of the Republic, we have not discussed it, approved it and voted twice—one was plunged by the Constitutional Court ; the other, of course, we have tried to correct precisely that lead, as it is normal and institutional in democracy. And then there's the question of insanitary contradiction. Mr. Prime Minister came here to announce a novelty which, for some, is electoralist; for others, it is bad; for others, what is more strange but we have heard it here, it is electoralist and bad, which is an absolutely insanity contradiction—only comparable to the fact that the Left Block cites Lincoln, see, the President of the North American Republic! [[Rice and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] Then, Prime Minister, as regards pensions, we want to share your concern. Clearly, there is a problem in this area that we cannot forget, or hide, and Mr. Prime Minister said well, because he is exactly where he was a year ago. We have put forward a proposal, it has not been possible to implement it. I also recall that the latter proposal provided for a recovery of cuts between 45 % and 75 % in the value of pensions. It was not possible but it was necessary to do so and what would be expected of the Socialist Party, as a party to the bow of governance, was that it could contribute to this effort. We will wait for Tuesday, but I fear that on Tuesday nothing more will come out than saying that we will wait for the elections... But we will hope, above all, that here, in the debate on Wednesday, we will have a draft resolution, with proposals, with alternatives, from the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u155	I'd like to know the PS proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u156	Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to say that we consider it important to continue to reduce state expenditure. With this, which is not a question, I would like to point out — even because it is an unfair criticism, often done — what has been possible in the last 15 days as regards PPPs, with the approval in the Council of Ministers, of a renegotiation that has allowed a total saving of EUR 2000 million, focusing above all on shareholders and not on users. For us, this is very, very important, because it reveals the effort to contain the state's expenditure with itself, especially with PPPs, that another government, at other times, knowing and protecting the payment deadlines, has been making and celebrating. It is good to highlight that fact. I shall finish, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, not with a question, but with an appeal. TAP is a prestigious company, although, I know, with difficulties. A 10-day strike was called in a single month. [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u157	This, Prime Minister, will affect tourism, passengers, the Portuguese economy, but also — or perhaps even, above all — the company itself. The pilots know that the claims are not in the agreement they signed a few months ago. I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, that, in our view, there is a limit to irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u159	There is a limit to selfishness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u160	What I was appealing to, and I would like to end with that, was, Mr. Prime Minister, that the pilots, on behalf of the TAP, on behalf of the national economy and on behalf of the country, reconsider this decision, which may ultimately end with a reference company, which has problems, which we are trying to solve, but we want to continue to be a reference company. [[Protests from PCP MP David Costa.]] We are on the side of those who want to solve the problem, we are not on the side of those who want to create even more problems. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u161	I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u162	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I will refer to four questions to be answered. First of all, on the question of IRC, he said that it was a question of pragmatism how the government has been addressing the decline in corporate taxation. I reinforce what I said recently, responding to two Members : we are doing so across the line, we are not doing so only through the normal rate of IRC. We are doing so on a whole line, for start-ups, for small and medium-sized enterprises, maintaining a gradual deterioration for all companies; signaling, in order to discriminate positively, the reinvestments that are made from profits generated by companies themselves; making a positive discrimination also in relation to everything that means incorporating new technologies and staff renewal, mainly linked to research and development, i.e. all this is currently being reviewed by the government. It started with the question of IRC, passed through the Fiscal Code of Investment, has been going through changes to SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives in Research and Business Development ), and out there. Therefore, it is not a loose, scattered matter that does not follow a very serious strategy. This strategy is to allow Portugal to be an economy with greater investment attractiveness so that it can have reproductive investment and therefore structural job creation, and not occasional job creation. Without this we will not be able to make an economic model from an effective point of view. That is why it is important to overcome this difference in the structural change of the economic model, of the development model. Without generating new investment, we will not be able to meet the capital deficits, which at this time does not meet the needs of increasing installed capacity, on the one hand, and investment in technological renewal, on the other. If we want more innovation, if we want better technologies, if we want to increase productivity, if we want to be more competitive, we must at least have good conditions to attract investment. And that's what we're doing in the fiscal area as well. Mr. Deputy says it's pragmatism. Yes, sir, but it's more than pragmatism. I agree with the honourable Member that this is not an ideological issue regarding capital or work. in this sense it is pragmatic. We can't have any more work opportunities if we don't have any more investment. That seems obvious to me. But there's a strategic decision. We could say: 'Our strategy is to finance the recovery of the economy through the sustained increase in domestic demand, especially at the cost of consumption'. It was a strategy, she was followed. The previous model was consumption, increased consumption, non-reproductive investment, concentrated in non-competitive areas, not exposed to external competition in our economy. That was the model. Now, this model is being buried by us, and that is why we are progressively having a different profile than we have had for many years, which is why we can grow, in the coming years, much more than what appears to have been destroyed in terms of accumulated nominal wealth, after more than 13 years. We will be able to grow much more than that, that is, in just four years, we will grow once and half what we grow in more than 13 years. Is it little? In the face of the accumulated needs, in the face of the stock we have, in the face of the backpack we have to load, it is little, we needed much more. But is it enough for us to change the model, have external balance, increase employment? It is! It is a good starting point for extending reforms. But, Mr President, there is a big difference: while we are saying that we are available to move forward, to discuss new structural reform measures that still expand our prospects for the future, either investment or job creation, many opposition parties are interested in the debate of the « backward », the «replace» and the « when do we have what we had again? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But we can't go back to exactly what we had, because we know what this leads to. We are therefore available to discuss other strategies, with which we bring, that extend our prospects for the future. On the second question, on pensions, which has already been referred to by me, I cannot help but agree with what Mr Nuno Magalhães said. We need to find a structural reform that solves this problem. For the future, in terms of pension convergence, it is assumed. This government has done so and has not been declared unconstitutional. But on the problem of the one which will allow us, for many years, and which is therefore structural, to solve the deficit we have in the public sector with state pensions, the Constitutional Court has already said that we can only solve it at the expense of the whole economy and all pensioners. I didn't say how — better off! - but I've already said how it can't be. So we are willing to discuss any other model. It is false to say that we want to cut 600 million pensions—I have already said it here and it is not worth insisting on that key. Tell me, however, what is the best way to make this balance, so as to share this funding that social security needs, because of this deficit in public pensions, so that we can have a national consensus to stabilize this reform. On the third issue, i.e. the reduction of state expenditure, I must say that it has been gradual. in cases, at the expense of measures that have an extraordinary character; in other cases, at the cost of measures that are perennial, which have a structural effect. I already said it here. Gradualism in the replacement of wages and in the removal of extraordinary measures has precisely to do with the capacity that we need to have to maintain this balance without exacerbating Portuguese conditions. If we had another way of removing everything more quickly, maintaining external balance, growth and, at the same time, indebtedness, it would be excellent! The Socialist Party seems to have a magic wand to do that. We are waiting for this magic wand, of course, with great expectation, but we have only the conviction that the answers that have been given so far leave us with the worst thought. Finally, Mr President, Mr TAP's strike is worrying. Yes, sir! This TAP strike is not understood. The Government has established an agreement with the TAP trade unions and this agreement is not being respected. We deeply regret that this happens, but it is perverse that a strike which is decreed to be worth 10 days, in the name of saving the company to avoid privatisation, may put the company itself at risk. Because he does! It puts the company at risk not in the medium-term future, but in the short-term future. Who thinks that, by preventing the privatisation of the company, he is pushing his belly to solve the matter further forward, from a few years ago, he is very wrong, because TAP will have a very serious problem, and very quickly. On this point, that is all I have to say, in view of the objective that we have to achieve this privatisation in terms of public interest. The alternative to the privatization of TAP is collective dismissal, the reduction of its activity, the sale of aircraft, the cancellation of routes. Having a miniature TAP, which does not serve the interests of the country, I do not see how it can serve the interests of the pilots. It does not serve the interests of TAP workers and does not serve the interest of Portugal! And that's what's at stake at this point. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u163	for the PSD, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Prime Minister : This Stability Programme and this National Reform Programme have concluded a new commitment from Portugal to our European partners, but they have concluded, above all, Mr Prime Minister, a new principle. They are no longer adjustment programmes, they are no longer emergency programmes, they are indeed recovery programmes, they are growth programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u166	I would even say, with the necessary adaptations, that these documents set up a sort of memorandum that this Government, this majority, this legislature, leaves to the next legislature. And what difference between the memorandum that remains for the next legislature and those that we received from the previous legislation... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u167	... be the Memorandum of Troika, be the memorandums of stability and growth programs, the famous PEC, the Socialist Party. That is why the Socialist Party has appeared in this debate so disturbed — it is not surprising that it is — and even very hilarious. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues said that the Programs are propaganda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u168	Propaganda very poorly achieved!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u169	...that bring more austerity. I don't see how the two things are conciliable. But Mr. Ferro Rodrigues also said that from the reading of what was already known to these Programmes it turned out that 2016 was not the beginning of the end of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u170	It was the end of the beginning!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u171	But that is no novelty, because in fact austerity is already ending.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u172	Is he there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u173	It is already present today in the 2015 State Budget which you rejected. [[PS protests.]] in the 2015 State Budget there are already many of these measures which are also envisaged for the next cycle. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members, in fact, 2016 is not the beginning of the end of austerity, but since this has been said, it is good to remember where it was the principle of austerity. The end is already under way, but the principle, in fact, goes back to the previous governments and goes back to a strategy that was completely different from what is being drawn up today in these documents. contrary to what happened to CFPs, in which each one was united more austerity, more measures, more effort, this Stability Programme is, in fact, recovery and removal of cuts and sacrifices. It is a great difference and it is the expression that the sacrifice to which the Portuguese were subjected in recent years was indeed worth it. in the Socialist CEP, Mrs. Members, there was a rise in taxes, but in this programme there is a reduction in the tax burden. There were cuts and freezing of minimum pensions in the Socialist CFPs, which is not happening now. And speaking of pensions, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that you have a very keen view of the matter. You're not in charge of 600 million, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u174	What an idea! 600 million won't disappear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u175	Fundamental values and principles are at stake! It is concerned to ensure that in the public sector there are conditions for paying pensions. That's what we're talking about, not 600 million! We are talking about having a sustainable system that guarantees, that ensures people who can and will receive your reform, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u176	But that's not with you in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u177	in the Socialist CEP, Mrs. Members, there were also cuts in salaries in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u178	PSD PEC is not very different!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u179	The cuts that are currently being removed in 2015 and that will continue to be removed in the coming years, no later than 2018, these cuts were decided by a Government of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u180	As bad is Peter as Paul! That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u181	That is why this program is very different! Your programs have created cuts...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u182	With your support!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u183	... and this Program removes cuts. I would like to say, since here too we have talked about the debate on birth, that the elimination of the 4. o is 5. the steps of family allowance was also a decision of the Socialist Party PECs. We must also remember that! [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, in fact these are Growth Programmes. I know it's hard to hear, but I'm going to repeat: it's growth programs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u184	It doesn't cost anything! It's just words!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u185	That is not what Mr. José Magalhães decided when he was in government. That's what I'm talking about! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u187	That's what I'm talking about! I'm talking about what you've been doing! That's what I'm talking about. That's not words! The Socialist Party's CEPs reviewed the macroeconomic scenario, always to aggravate the situation, increasingly less growth and more deficit. Now we have a programme where it is planned—and it is prudent, even in view of what other entities have been forecast—that in 2016 our economy will grow 1, 6 %, that in 2017 it will grow 2 % and that in 2018 and 2019 it will grow 2, 4 %. This means that in four years we have a growth projection of 8, 4 % of our Product. Now, the Socialist Party, such a Socialist Party on words and rhetoric, is having a conversation, especially after the INE reviewed data from the 2012 recession, that this Government had a recession in the house of 6, 5 % and that this put the gross domestic product at values of 15 years ago. It must certainly be concluded that the poverty of growth is that we had during the governments of the Socialist Party so that three years of recession had consumed all the growth of 12 or 13 years of the governments of that party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u188	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u189	But another thing must also be concluded: that the country today, in four years, will grow more than what has grown in 12 or 13 years of Socialist Party governments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And it was at the same time that we ended up with PPPs and that we are saving in the useful life of PPP contracts over EUR 7 billion, that is at the same time that we are stimulating private investment and that is at the same time that we are having social and political policies that interest people. Why did you not, for example, talk about the expected reduction in gas tariffs? Doesn't it matter to the Socialist Party? It's been decided in the last few days and it's going to be running in the next few years. Why didn't you talk about the drop in the price of medicines at the edge of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals? Why did you not talk about the extension of the exemption from moderate rates? They preferred to talk about television reports and display the misery associated with the way some see the National Health Service. But the National Health Service, which has difficulties — we all know — is having the capacity to respond, despite the adjustment we had to make and despite having paid more than EUR 2000 million of debts that you left in the health sector. Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, this project, which is a project of the future and of hope, is factual, reconciles budgetary consolidation with economic growth and also social justice. And it is a horizon that we have ahead of us for the next four years, which actually reveals that it was worth taking advantage of this moment of emergency to transform the country and to give it more sustainability. Mr. Prime Minister, these are the results we have come to know; this is a healthy growth project that this majority and this government support and support. What about the opposition? What about the Socialist Party? What project does the Socialist Party have? Is this the PEC project again? Is this the immediate salary replacement project? With what funding? With what policy to be supported? Is it the project of tax irresponsibility, to promise the generalized low of taxes? Is that the Socialist Party project? It is easy to make PPP and it is easy to launch uncontrolled public investment! It is easy to "shrink aside" when talking about the sustainability of social security. All this is very easy, but we need to explain how it all pays; how it all is financed; how it can all be translated and, at the same time, we will maintain the confidence of the financial markets so that we can continue to finance ourselves at the lowest rates ever. Mr. Prime Minister, your response to these challenges the country knows. It's a reliable answer and it's a reliable answer. But there are others who have to respond to these challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u190	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u191	I therefore conclude, Madam President, by asking what reliable and reliable answer Dr. António Costa will give these days to the challenges that these programmes are facing. Will it be a response like Mr. Eng.o Socrates when he was Prime Minister, with the same policies and with the same outcome? That is the issue that is also of interest to us today in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u192	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u193	A final note, Madam President, to associate myself with what Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Nuno Magalhães said about this strike by the TAP pilots, which from our point of view is impressively selfish and irresponsible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u194	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u195	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, your reference to these documents which will be discussed here, in Parliament, and then sent to Brussels — the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme — as true memorandums for the future, seems to me to be a correct image, as it reflects the will and commitment that the country has for its European partners for the next four years. This is a compromise that respects European rules and defends Portugal. It does not correspond to more or less tax commitments, these are commitments that we have taken on our own will. So we did not make a sort of negotiation simulation that, without room for manoeuvre, would end up imposing on the Portuguese what could have been avoided for a long time. These documents contain, with realism, the way we can voluntarily do, fulfilling the rules that we freely adhere to in Europe and, at the same time, respecting our restrictions, which are true. The comparison between the two perspectives cannot be more radical from this point of view. In 2011, we were on the verge of the financial precipice, we had no way to finance the State, so we called into question the financing of the private economy itself. Today, we are doing exactly the opposite, we are leaving this film and we are entering a completely different film, in which we can build, voluntarily, freely, our path. And that alone, from the point of view of the political principle, is a radical change which cannot fail to be pointed out. Today, we can discuss with much more freedom the choices we want to make for the future than we have had the opportunity to do in recent years. For this reason, it was often said that we had to do many things that we would not have liked to have done, but that had to be done, in the face of restriction and the lack of freedom of choice. But today we have margins of freedom and we are using our margin of freedom with responsibility. You said the honourable Member that it was worth arriving here because we are choosing. In 2011 we had no choice, that's what it was, it had to be like this, when there's no money there's no choice. But today we have a choice and the choices we have, which the government presents to the country do not surprise, are balanced and realistic. The contradiction noted by Mr Nuno Magalhães is remarkable from this point of view: we cannot, at the same time, be accused of being electoralist and of maintaining austerity and the path that leads to loss. This is an insanity contradiction. The path, therefore, is realistic enough to be confirmed by the unrealism of the political attacks that they make us in this matter. But what choices could we make as an alternative to these? I cannot answer your question, Mr President. The honourable Member asked me what answer will be given to the leader of the Socialist Party. I can't answer it. I understand, rhetorically, the question that you are asking me, but I am not the right person to give you an answer, you have to give that answer yourself. I can say what is known in public terms. There are things in which the Socialist Party is still thinking about what it is going to do, and therefore, it has taken refuge in the excuse — because it is an excuse — that it is waiting for the definition of the macroeconomic framework that it will present next week to say, then, what are the measures it is going to present. But with this, he denies a number of measures he has already presented, without any macroeconomic scenario! The Socialist Party still does not know what will be revealed to you next Tuesday and has already said it will restore wages. It's 600 million! It has to be, it can't be any other way. The Socialist Party won't say now that it won't pay back! For if he criticizes us for making a gradual replacement, is it because he will not gradually recover, is he not? It can be no other way, but it makes no sense to attack us by gradually resting. So it is assumed that for next year it will restore 600 million. The Socialist Party has already said that a safeguard clause of the IMI must be restored, which were the parties of the majority who presented and fulfilled their role. At the time the Socialist Party did not want the safeguard clause, but now it wants to restore a safeguard clause that has already made its way, but, with that, it wants to aggravate the decline in revenue by more than 150 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u196	Wait for Tuesday!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u197	You also want to remove the overtax from the IRS. Surely, not according to a gradual removal, it will remove more quickly — it costs 700 million! He has already presented an initiative, saying that he wants to put the restoration VAT back by 13 % — plus 175 million! I would also like to rest 35 hours in the Public Administration — which the Socialist Party has already said — is more than 50 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u198	It doesn't cost money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u199	And you want to spend the minimum wage for at least €552 per month. This represents 40 million in the Public Administration — there is not much minimum wage in the Public Administration. We do not, of course, know what would be expected in Portuguese companies, but I am sure that it would increase business failure and job destruction and not defence and job creation. But in the state it is more than 40 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u200	Wait for Tuesday!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u201	In other words, it is EUR 1700 million, 1 % of GDP. What would this mean? That in 2016, the country would return in great style to the excessive deficit, could not use any budgetary flexibility, would be aggravated the public debt ratio and inevitably compromise the external balance. I mean, we would not go back exactly to 2011 because we made much progress, but it would be the beginning of the return, in great style, to 2011. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This, Mr President, is what I can tell you on the basis of the best information I have. But, of course, the Socialist Party will clarify all this and will say that for these 600 million wages, IMI 150 million, overtax 700 million, restaurant VAT 155 million, 50 million of 35 hours, 40 million of minimum wage, for these 17 billion it has an alternative. He will say that he has alternative measures that solve this problem, that do not aggravate our deficit and, as we hope, that they do not question our external balance, that they can, of course, confirm before the country, that the path we are following is a safe and robust path. Well, I don't know if you should say a safe way, because, despite the leader of the Socialist Party having already changed in this legislature, the Socialist Party could actually still claim some credit for its former leader on this path. But I don't think it will be that way, because there are not many differences in this path, there are fewer differences between the previous leader and this one. [[PS protests.]] We will have a right path of recovery and, within that right path, the Portuguese know, I believe, what they count on. Mr President, what we can say today is that we will complete our mandate without being promising anyone, but saying that we are, of course, building, with more freedom, a path of growth and recovery of employment to which the country legitimately aspires. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the 15-year debate is concluded. I thank Mr. Prime Minister and all the speakers who spoke in him. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. We shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 205 presences, to which is added the presence of PSD Member Pedro Pinto, to which 206 Members are present. Let's start with vote No 268 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Solidarity for the immediate release of Khaleda Jarrar, Member of the Palestinian Legislative Council ( CFP ). Mr. Secretary of Bureau Jorge Machado will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u203	Madam President, the vote is as follows: « The Member of the Palestinian Parliament, Khaleda Jarrar, was arrested in the morning of April 2 in Ramallah, when several dozens of elements of the Israeli army entered his residence in Ramallah, where he was with his husband and daughter. Khaleda Jarrar presides over the Palestinian Prisons Commission of the Palestinian Legislative Council and is leader of Addameer, an organization dedicated to the defence of rights and the release of Palestinians imprisoned in Israeli prisons. The 52-year-old, lawyer and activist for the defence of women's rights, is prevented by Israel from travelling outside Palestine since 1998 and, despite suffering from chronic illness, was only once allowed to travel for treatment. on 5, the order of ‘administrative detention’ was issued by the Israeli authorities for the next six months to Mrs Khaleda Jarrar, who may thus remain in detention during that period without trial or any accusation. The order may, however, be renewed for the same periods without a time limit. Last August, Mrs Khaleda Jarrar received from the Israeli authorities an order of deportation from Ramallah to Jericho. Refusing to observe it, he settled in a tent in the lobby of the Palestinian Parliament in Ramallah, where he lived and worked until, on 16 September, following an international support campaign, the deportation order was annulled. Israel holds another 18 Palestinian deputies, nine of whom are in administrative detention, without trial or formal guilt. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its solidarity with Khaleda Jarrar and the other Palestinian Members arrested by Israel, demanding their immediate release, and reaffirms the defence of respect for and compliance with the provisions of international law, in particular the Geneva Conventions, as regards obligations and restrictions of the occupying Power'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u204	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens, votes against 3 PSD (Adam Silva, Carlos Abreu Amorim and Duarte Pacheco), 1 PS (Maria Rosa Albernaz) and 7 CDS-PP (Artur Rêgo, Inês Teotónio Pereira, João Gonçalves Pereira, João Rebelo, Manuel Isaac, Michael Seufert and Teresa Anjinho) and abstentions from PS, CDS-PP and 5 PS (António Braga, João Soares, Miguel Coelho, Pedro Delgado Alves and Rui Pedro Duarte).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u207	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u208	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the following vote No 269 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Praised by the distinction of Father Joaquim Carreira as « Just between the Nations » ( PS, PSD and CDS-PP ). I give the floor to Mrs. Rosa Albernaz to do the right thing to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 15 April, Priest Joaquim Carreira was distinguished, in the synagogue of Lisbon, on a posthumous basis, by the Embassy of Israel and the Israeli Community of Lisbon with the delivery of a medal accompanied by his name and the honor certificate ‘Just Among the Nations’, by Yad Vashem, the Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem to his relatives. This honorary title can only be attributed to persons who, not being Jews, have directly participated, during the Holocaust, in the rescue of one or more Jews threatened by death or deportation to the concentration camps, risking life, liberty or position, without receiving anything in return. That is precisely what Father Joaquim Carreira did. Joaquim Carreira, a man of great faith, performed his duties of priesthood and rhetoric with great dignity, bravery and charitable spirit at the Pontifical Portuguese College in Rome, between 1940 and 1954, in the dark times of World War II, an era of great anti-clericalism and persecution against ethnic and religious minorities. During that period, as a result of the Nazi occupation of Rome, from September 1943, granted asylum and hospitality to several people persecuted by the Nazis, including resistant, anti-fascist, partisan and Jewish. By obeying the imperative to safeguard the moral demands and fundamental rights of the human person, the courageous, compassionate and supportive gesture of Father Carreira made it possible to save the life of about 40 people. of it well said the Portuguese historian Carlos Azevedo: ‘ He can stand beside other figures, among whom he disobeyed the inhuman authorities for the greatness of soul, for obedience to conscience, taking serious risks. ’ In fact, Father Joaquim Carreira's action does not distinguish himself from the action of other Portuguese heroes who, in times of moral crisis, have prevailed their compassion and solidarity. next to Aristides de Sousa Mendes, Carlos Sampayo Garrido and Teixeira Branquinho, is today the name of Joaquim Carreira fixed in the Wall of Honor of the Garden of the Justos of the Holocaust Memorial. An act of justice that we owe to the publication of the excellent article of António Marujo, in the Journal 2 of the Public Journal, which thus depolated the investigation and the process of designation by Yad Vahsem. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic is associated with the tributes given to the Blessed Father Joaquim Carreira and reverence his memory».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u210	Mrs. Sir, let's vote for the vote just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 813 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of pregnant, puerperous or lactating women in the Labour Code ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 814 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Equal parenthood for the protection of women in maternity and employment ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, the EPO and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Because I have to go away, I ask Vice-President Antonio Filipe to replace me. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u211	Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 815 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Reimposes rights in access to family allowance ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, we are now going to vote on a request submitted by PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and BE, asking for the discharge to the Health Commission, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of draft resolutions 1298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Social responses to early childhood ( BE), 997 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the National Health Service ensure the preservation of gametes of patients at risk of infertility due to oncological treatments ( BE), 1414/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of rotavirus vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ), 1417 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthen primary health care in child health and in the provision of care to children and young people ( PCP ), 1418 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the means of the Working Conditions Authority and establish a national plan to combat discrimination on the basis of maternity and paternity ( CFP ), 1419 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures for the realization of sexual and reproductive rights ( PCP ), 1420 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a public network of quality child support equipment at socially fair and affordable prices ( PCP ), 1421 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of accessibility to infertility treatments ( PCP ), 1423 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the rental of young people with a view to their effective emancipation ( CFP ), 1424 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Integrated Birth Incentive Solutions ( CFP ), 1425 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme, which analyses the relevance of inclusion in the same Type B Meningococcal vaccine programme and studies the effectiveness of vaccination against paediatric gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1426 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen support for children and the family ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends a cross-sectional set of measures to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1428 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes an extended debate in society on the problem of birth and submits concrete proposals to the Government for the replacement of measures promoting reconciliation between family life and personal life ( PS ) and 1429 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government, within the framework of birth policies, the establishment of an agency that monitors public family policies to replace the former Family Policy Promotion Commission and the former Family Advisory Council ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 856 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the freeness and dematerialization of school textbooks ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 857 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It stipulates that no child is deprived of a family doctor ( The Greens). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 858 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Re-introduction of Pass 4 /NP 18 and Pass sub23 to all children and young students ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No 816 / XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, the EPO and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 861 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates a school pass ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote in general on Bill No 862 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines the certification and adoption regime for school textbooks, ensuring their freeness ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on Bill No 863 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Establish the National Programme for Combating Labour Precurity and Illegal Contraction ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 864 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extends the conditions for access and allocation of prenatal and family allowance, ensuring the universality of this social benefit to all children and young people ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u213	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u214	Mr President, I know that there is a different understanding in the Assembly of the Republic on this matter, but as we are then going to vote on a set of bills that amend labour legislation without having elapsed the deadline for public discussion, I would like to leave this fact recorded and the disagreement of the CFP, as has also happened in other circumstances in which this happened, although these are initiatives that were presented by drag with others that were already scheduled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u216	Mr President, in the same light as the position already taken several times at the Conference of Leaders, we believe that this theme should deserve a wider public debate and therefore the vote should generally take place only after that debate is held. We realize that the debate on these numerous initiatives has had a particular context, because otherwise we would even question its own agenda, but on our part, we could not fail to show this our dissatisfaction with this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u218	Mr President, although I understand the consistency of the positions of the parliamentary groups that preceded me, I would like to recall that this has been not only the practice of the Assembly of the Republic in this legislature, as it is also the firm doctrine of the Constitutional Court, that we are convinced that we are respecting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-17.u219	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 866 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, establishing a new working time modality, the half-day ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 867 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstains from the PS and BE.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 868 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates a mechanism for the protection of pregnant, puerperous and lactating workers ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No. 869 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Establishs the universality of pre-school education for children from 4 years of age, making the first amendment to Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSD applause.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 870 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of an interdisciplinary permanent specialized committee for birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 871 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code by introducing a 50 % vehicle tax exemption for large families ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 872 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August 2003 approving the legal regime for the protection of family charges, increasing the amount paid at the levels of family allowance and prenatal allowance and the increase of single-parent families ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 873/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August by densifying the scheme of loans for school textbooks and by ensuring its linkage with the school social action scheme in basic and secondary schools and with the competences of local authorities in the field ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 874 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code is made by amending the scheme applicable to the group time bank ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, and with votes against the PS and the abstention of BE.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 875 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November proposing the weighting of the number of dependents for the purposes of the exemption of moderate rates ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 876 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, redefining the calculation of the family quotient ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No 877 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — The third amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June is made at 35 hours a week as a normal period of work in the civil service ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 302 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Architects, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 296 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1245 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the maximum permitted power in the engines of local fishing vessels and strengthen the monitoring to them ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1409 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote legislative amendment to enable the increase in the power of engines installed on local fishing vessels ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1411 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the safety of local fishing vessels ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1413/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends increased power of local fishing vessels' engines for greater safety of fishermen ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We now have a set of diplomas to vote in general, in specialty and in global final vote. We have the information that the parliamentary groups are voting on all initiatives in the same way, and therefore the Bureau's proposal is that the draft laws should be set out, after which a block vote will take place, which will be, at the same time, in general, in the field of expertise and in the global end. We shall then proceed to the joint vote, in general, on the overall specialty and final, of the projects of lein.o 549 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the parish of the Union of the Freguesias de Real, Ataíde and Oliveira, in the municipality of Amarante, for the parish of Vila Meã ( PS ), 687 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change in territorial boundaries between the Union of the Freguesia de Baião ( Santa Leocádia ) and Mesquinhata and Union of the Freguesias de Ancede e Ribadouro, in the municipality of Baião ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 688 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of the parish of Mondim de Basto, in the municipality of Mondim de Basto, to São Cristóvão de Mondim de Basto ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 691 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesas of São Cipriano and Vil de Souto, in the city of Viseu, for São Cipriano and Vil de Souto ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 692 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Changes in territorial boundaries between the Union of the Frequencies of Teixeira and Teixeira and the parish of Gestaçô, in the municipality of Baião ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 693 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of the Couto de Basso and Couto de Cima Freguesas, in the city of Viseu, for Coutos de Viseu ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 694 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias de Repeses and São Salvador, in the city of Viseu, for Repeses and São Salvador ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 762 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the parish of the Union of the Fregueses of Vila Real ( Our Lady of the Conceição, São Pedro and São Dinis ), in the municipality of Vila Real, for the parish of Vila Real ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] We shall now, in general, vote on Bill No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, on the final text submitted by the same Commission, on the proposal for a law No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 22, beginning at 3 p.m. and will have on the agenda the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, and the draft resolutions on this subject may enter until 12 a.m. on 21 April. A good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 46 minutes.]]
