ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, with the congratulations of the Bureau, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] You can open the galleries. Before we start the 15-year debate, there is a file to be read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. You have the floor Mr. Secretary to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by the President, the proposal of lein. 331 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to revise the Code of Procedure of the Administrative Tribunals, the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Public Contracts, the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building, the Law of Procedural Participation and Popular Action, the Legal Regime of Administrative Protection, the Law of Access to Administrative Documents and the Law of Access to Information on the Environment, which falls to 1. the Commission, the projects of lein.o 900 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Review of the Legal Framework of the current Directorate-General for Social Protection for Workers in Public Functions ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 901 / XII ( 4. ( a). — Amendment of the designation of the Union of the Frequencies of Vale Flor, Carvalhal and Father Penela, in the municipality of Meda, for the parish of Vale Flor, Carvalhal and Father Penela ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 902 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure TAP as a public undertaking ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1468 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by the area of Bonitos ( Soure and Redinha) free from the exploitation of caulinos ( The Greens), 1469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the municipalization of education and defends the universality of public school and compliance with the Basic Law of the Educational System ( PCP ), 1470 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes the reintroduction of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Programme and the advertising of their evaluation results ( PCP ), 1471 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates a pilot programme for a « Independent Life Support scheme » for people with aggravated disabilities ( PCP ), 1472 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Immediate cancellation of the privatisation process of TAP ( The Greens ), 1473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — at the end of the deresponsibility of the State and the municipalisation of education ( The Greens ), 1474 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension and consequent reassessment of the Mathematics A programme for secondary education ( PS ), 1475 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of inspectors, strengthening of means and valuing the role of ACT ( BE ), 1476 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consensus against municipalization of schools and for school autonomy ( BE), 1477 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of the application of the Mathematics A programme — 2014 ( BE), 1478 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by promoting personal autonomy / independent life of persons with disabilities ( BE), 1479 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by the defence of TAP ( PS ), and 1480 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a strategy to strengthen the promotion of cultural habits among young people ( PS ), which goes down to 8. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u3	We will then start the two-year debate with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance. There's a lot of noise in the room, so I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Today's debate has the framework given to it by Article 224 ( 2 ( a ) of the Rules of Procedure and begins with the intervention of the Prime Minister, following the speeches of the parliamentary groups, the following order: PS, PCP, the Left Block, The Greens, CDS-PP and PSD. Thus, in order to open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u4	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members: last week it was precisely four years that the request for external intervention in Portugal of the International Monetary Fund and the institutions of the European Union has been formalised. of the same step, we have concluded a year since we were able to close this Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance and in which, therefore, we live in what can be called, as already indicated, the post-troika. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is therefore appropriate at this time to make an assessment of what has meant a year of post-troika in Portugal. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government then presented publicly, but especially for our external partners and also for international investors, a path to growth that rightly pointed out a set of important goals that should be achieved so that this post-trogic period could be a consolidation of our process of adjustment rather than of retrogression. This document is public and I think it is very proud that I can say that a significant part of the goals and measures set out in this document are being met or being completed, and therefore that some of them are also dependent on Parliament's own intervention, and there are issues that are currently in Parliament to be completed. Our concern at that time was to list a set of measures to maintain the promotion of economic competitiveness in the country, to continue to bet on the promotion of human capital and employment and to maintain the objective of further extending the rationalisation of the public sector. The vast majority of the measures envisaged here have deserved our diligent activity and intervention and, in general, are now assumed as part of a process that the country knows does not end, in terms of transformation, with the Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance, but which, being beyond it, is indispensable for the country to remain autonomous, that it does not need to go through a position in which it has to request additional external interventions and, at the same time, creating conditions, as is evident, to maintain the growth of the economy and employment. I would very quickly like to take account of some of these matters. We are now completing, or we have already concluded, privatisation processes, or granting, since then, the second phase of the REN, the General Development Company, the TTC, the passenger transport of Lisbon and the Port, the TAP, the CP Cargo, the EMEF and the Oceanário. We have also prepared a set of important measures throughout this period to rapidly take advantage of all the funding available in Portugal 2020. We therefore approved the governance model, the essential rules for access to funds and have already implemented Portugal 2020. With some delay, we constituted the development financial institution, which will still start on this summer the first intervention operations on capital which are recoverable within the framework of Portugal 2020. In general, we concluded important instruments for the competitiveness of the economy, including the new Fiscal Code for Investment, we also revised the Investment Contract Scheme and reviewed the legal system of tax benefits for productive investment. We will also change the criteria for extension gates, within the context of the need to give even greater dynamism to collective bargaining. We have sought, on the employment side, a new scheme for professional internships that, as you have been responding, responds to the need to act quickly for those who seek a more confident regime of entry into the labour market. We have extended extraordinary social support to electricity consumers and revised the EESC's mechanism (Extraordinary contribution to the Energy Sector) in order to cover the take or pay contracts for natural gas. We therefore completed all the measures necessary to reduce and eliminate the tariff deficit by 2020. on the side of justice, we have concluded a set of matters which form a reform of the greatest magnitude and which were in practice during the post-troika with the implementation of the new judicial map, with the approval of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which has already entered into force, being in Parliament, like the honourable Members. Members know, the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, as well as the Code of Procedure of the Administrative Tribunals, and we have completed the review of the SIREVE (Sistema de Recovery de Empresas via Extrajudiciala) and the SIR (Sistema de Industria Responsiblea ) regime, in order to be able, together with the responsible industry, to have a more expeditious process to deal with the problems of insolvency and recovery of companies, but always in a perspective of responsibility. We also approved the Green Taxation and a green growth strategy, which, moreover, served from the budgetary point of view, also to make an IRS relief so that the most numerous families could have their IRS relieved. We have also sought to pursue the strategy of the Defence Reform 2020, and in this context we have approved the new status of the armed forces, the new organic laws, the Military Programming Act and the programming of military infrastructures, which was and is in Parliament. We were also able to remove the whole process of suspension of early pensions, which was why he was anxious. We have adopted an agenda for the competitiveness of trade, services and restoration, and we have therefore taken new measures which are important for the re-enhancing of this sector of the economy. We also managed, from the budgetary point of view, to review the Law of Commitments two years after its implementation, and we found that we were able to significantly reduce late payments, but we were also able to introduce new modifications that made the practical regime of application of the Law of Commitments more in line with what we thought was reasonable in view of the experience. And there is in Parliament the revision of the Budget Framework Act, which has an important task and which clearly transcends the legislature. We enter the required English number 1. the cycle of basic education and thus we managed to ensure that all cycles of basic education now had mandatory English, which never happened in the past. Within the social area, we have also made an important reinforcement of EUR 3, EUR 5 million for the Solidary Sector Restructuring Fund, which has been very important to continue to provide the necessary support to the solidarity sector institutions which today also have a great responsibility for social cohesion. We have advanced with a new wage guarantee fund scheme to protect employees in the event of insolvency of employers. We were able to change the air transport regime for the Azores, therefore, public service obligations for air transport, and we felt that this could be the source of a major economic recovery that the Azores could come to know. We have also been able to move forward on the decentralization side, creating the appropriate legal framework, so that several of the contractualizations could already be initiated, what happened to many of them, hoping that others, after the pilot experiments, can be generalized. We have also been able to benefit many Portuguese families by changing the moderating rate regime. We are convinced that, by the end of the year, with the extension of the exceptional regime for the hiring of retired doctors and also other measures, we will be able to ensure that all Portuguese are able to have a family doctor. We have sent 16 proposals for legislation to Parliament with the revision of the statutes of professional orders, also seeking to facilitate access to professions here. in general, we managed to see Portugal seen internally and externally as a country that does not need the troika to do what is necessary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u5	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u6	And that is why, Madam President, we were able to make the refunded payment to the International Monetary Fund for part of the debt and we will continue to pay new early repayments. That is why we were able to raise the national minimum wage. That is why we were able to start removing wage reductions in public service. To conclude, Madam President, it was for all of this that we also achieved that the Portuguese State today could know, as happened on the Banco de Portugal side, the improvement of the indicators of economic activity, in this case reported to May, which is in recovery, thus reinforcing what our goals are, and that we also managed, for the first time in our history, to make the cash ticket emissions at negative interest rates. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the best evidence that we can, sometimes very pragmatically, conclude that there is no reason for us not to be confident that our post-trogic regime can be solid and present to the Portuguese a consistent recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u8	Despising people's problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u9	in this measure, Madam President, the balance sheet I make today will be significantly improved when, within a year, I have no doubt! — we will rebalance the post-troika in Portugal, in particular if we keep the course we have followed so far. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u10	The first intervention by the parliamentary groups is the responsibility of the PS. To ask questions, I give the floor to Mr. Ferro Rodrigues. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u11	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Madam Secretary of State : It is indeed very predictable, i.e. the interventions that Mr. Prime Minister makes in connection with the last weeks of PSD and government propaganda. This was an intervention here by a huge bureaucratic pendant. It seemed like a report of an administrative council, bureaucratic, callless, without conclusions, and if this is the beginning of the electoral campaign of the coalition, it begins very badly, Mr. Prime Minister. Indeed, mixing the privatization of the Oceanaire with the opening of the Financial Institution for Development, which will now be by the end of summer, by 21 September, seems to me very little strict. But what is most important—and I tell you with all serenity and firmness—is that you do not realize why the coalition celebrates the exit of the troika. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Indeed, it was with the troika that they could put on the ground the historical program of the most conservative right in Portugal, which they would never have had the opportunity in life to do without the coming of the troika. And in 2010 and 2011 they also helped create political conditions that forced the troika to call. In 2011 they negotiated and celebrated this entry of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u12	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u13	And, despite the electoral campaign of ambush they made, they went beyond the troika. They always said they were going beyond the troika, which is today more than proven. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another very important aspect is that with the troika, in 2011 they defined your responsibility rather than the troika — a set of objectives for 2015 and now in 2015 they defined a set of objectives for 2019. It turns out that the objectives now set for 2019 are, in many cases, objectives lower than those that in 2011 had proposed, with the troika, for 2015, such as in employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I mean, if with the troika it was bad, without the troika it's bad. Mr Prime Minister, it is clear that it is also good for us not to see here every day, omnipresent, the officials of the three institutions instructing their government. It was not something we liked, but to celebrate the departure of the troika as they did, together, we are convinced that it was another manifestation of insult and contempt for those who suffered the crisis and renounce the slightest political sensitivity. [[PSD protests.]] The evidence given that Mr Prime Minister has spoken so many times in the last few days was indeed evidence of lack of a political word in regard to his electoral programme, of incompetence, often, and of irresponsibleness and irresponsibility. And it will allow me not to give examples that are suddenly known by the Portuguese. He didn't speak in the records, which he admired, but it's Mr. Vice Prime Minister who is the most specialized in records, such as the record of exports. I ask you, Prime Minister, what then? It is normal that exports can improve from year to year, which has happened in several years. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u14	But you guys have the black record book, and I'm just going to talk about the latest data available in several areas. For example, regarding emigration, the latest available data of 2013 reveals that 128 000 Portuguese emigrated, as opposed to 120 000 in 1966 — an absolute record of emigration! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public debt: in 2014, it was 130, 2 % of GDP—absolute debt record of EUR 235 billion ; higher tax burden of always on the middle class — 34, 5 % ( now seems to have fallen extraordinaryly to 34, 4 % ) ; poor credit (now reported in all newspapers), record of always in 2015 — 15 % of families and 31 % of enterprises with bad credit; higher risk of poverty rate of the century — 19, 5 % in 2013 ; lower number of ever births in 2014 — less than 85 000! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in your government ( not the latest data, but your government, your team), they also have the unemployment rate record — 16, 2 % in 2013 — the record of discouraged inactive ones — 277 400 — the lowest investment value — 14, 5 % of GDP — the largest number of failures — 17 243 in 2013. Do you think it is possible to continue on this path, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! With policies against the dignity of people, against the responsibility of the government itself, with an attack on civil rights and human rights, with an attack on the poor and the overwhelming majority of the middle class? Oh, my God! Do you think you can continue like this, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u15	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u16	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I am very pleased by the honourable Member that I find myself very predictable. Honestly, I would rather be very predictable than returning to times of uncertainty and uncertainty. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is good to be predictable, especially when we can present results such as those presented, which obviously do not appear on your list, because it cannot contain positive things for the country, but the honourable Member did not have a role in this Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, in fact, the positive things that exist, and that would not diminish your intervention in this Parliament, Member of Parliament, is the growth of our economy, the improvement of our indicators, the improvement of employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u17	300 000 jobs destroyed! Is there an improvement in employment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u18	...and that, Mr President, it is good to be predictable because we will be able to present to the Portuguese a medium and long-term plan that is more convincing and, at the same time, more solid than the one you are looking to see if you can convince the Portuguese that it can be feasible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Ferro Rodrigues says that he does not realize why we celebrate the departure of the troika, which may have allowed us to say, even more, some very interesting things, but I have saved my time to tell the honourable Member that, unlike you and the Socialist Party, all Portuguese realize why we celebrate the exit of the troika. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And they all celebrate that exit, because they all worked hard to make it possible. They all really went through many sacrifices so that we would not have to live under the troika regime. So I don't know what you mean by insult and contempt for those who have suffered. On the contrary, sir! It is precisely because we know that people have suffered a lot to be free of the troika that we will do everything we can to keep them from coming back. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But the honourable Member does not think that the troika was bad, but without the troika is bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u19	I don't think you understood what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u20	But of course, the honourable Member did not mean that it was better to have the troika here than to say that it was better to have the troika here. So I said the best thing is not to have, and so not to have, is bad. And why is it so bad? Because we have immigration, because we have debt, because we have tax burden, because we have bad credit, we have many other things that the honourable Member has told us and that are the great legacy that the Socialist Party has left Portugal these years when it called the troika. That's extraordinary, sir! That's extraordinary! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, I appeal to your logical conclusion. Mr President, it is normal for exports to improve. For a long time, the Socialist Party has raised many doubts about the possibility of export growth, but now it seems normal for them to grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u21	They've grown 20 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u22	But it is only normal for them to grow because there is an economic orientation that invites people, no doubt, to open up the country's economy to globalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u23	Did you do a refinery? Is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u24	We have come to have an economic openness programme which is obviously part of the principle that we are not protecting certain sectors of the national economy. That's true, we don't protect them, sir! And, therefore, the economy needs to keep this pace. I therefore conclude, Mr President, that it is possible to continue this course. More, Mr: it is essential to continue this path. The way we don't need to have is that which you propose and that, finally, this is still a developing process, which is not completed, which I realized today, is a path that points as a priority what has failed in the economic strategy, in Portugal, in the last 20 years, under socialist leadership, i.e. economic development led by consumption and artificial increase in available income,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u25	It's the only argument they have, the consumption!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u26	...that there must always be, on the other hand, an increase in taxes or transfers from the State budget, causing the deficit and taxes in the future or debt, under any circumstances paid by the taxes of the Portuguese. So, honourable Member, what we do not need is to go along the path that you are going. Members have come to propose Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u27	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u28	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, certainly our parties and we ourselves have many differences, but there is one question I wanted to underline: is that I am defending exactly the same principles and policies as I defended four years ago during the election campaign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The same principles and policies... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u29	I discount in your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u30	For me, you may not discount, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister, during the election campaign, committed himself to a number of principles and to a number of policies which he simply failed to comply with.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u32	in the election campaign, I said that this was going to happen, i.e. that you would turn solidarity into small charity, that would increase taxes, that would break up with the incomes of civil servants and pensioners, and all that happened. You have always denied until the last day, but that is what you have done during these four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, my legitimacy is like yours, it is that of the popular vote,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u33	...only that I comply with what I have committed to the popular vote. Mr Prime Minister, the calls for fear, the calls for irrationality, the calls for imponderability is what you want to do in this election campaign, but you will not be able to take us to it because you have a total lack of a serious debate. Even today the Socialist Party, through the voice of Secretary-General António Costa, has presented a set of clear and concrete proposals, a political and political alternative that reconciles financial rigor with economic recovery, which shows that it is possible to do different and do better, that guarantees the exit of the excessive deficit procedure and, at the same time, manages the reduction of public debt compatible with job creation and income growth, that is what you do not want to discuss; you prefer to appeal to fear, appeal to ghosts rather than politically discuss issues. Mr. Prime Minister, we want to contribute safely to a path of reducing the public deficit without sacrifices of investment, modernization and social protection. What do you gentlemen present? They present for 2019 a positive budget balance and an unemployment rate above 11 %. You are presenting a programme for the coming years, which is a programme for the continuation of the social disaster. I ask you: when do you want to speak about the answers that the PS gave to the 29 questions that the PSD Vice-President asked? They were answered with all the details, with equations and everything. [[PSD laughter.]] You are still digesting the answers you have to give. If you don't understand them, we give you a second chance: they repeat the questions and we explain better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to make noise. It is very difficult for the Bureau to decide whether to interrupt the speaker or ask the House not to make any noise. During the speech of Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I had some doubts as to whether he was interrupting it or not. I am therefore giving these clarifications because I did not interrupt it. Therefore, I ask everyone to keep quiet so that the speakers can be heard, because there were some problems in the last phase of the previous intervention. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u34	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I do not appeal to fear. on the contrary, I appeal, correct, to prudence and to trust. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u35	The appeal I make to the country is to trust and prudence. The call for prudence seems to me more than justified. A country that has gone through what has happened must be cautious, because unwiseness may have a difficult effect to digest, in a country that has passed far. This is not fear, Mr. Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u36	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u37	...it's prudent, it's prudent. But it is also to be confident, because we have been cautious during this time, prudent enough to be able to say today that, in the event of any external pressure, of any volatility that may happen, we are able to go through it without needing to ask for ransoms, without making appeals so that wages or pensions can be paid externally. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We lead the policy of prudence so as not to expose the country to unnecessary risks, but we have confidence. Mr President, today the placing of treasury tickets at negative rates cannot fail to be an element of trust. I'm guessing the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party do not like me to make these comments. I thought that today he could also congratulate himself on that, but the honourable Member — I say it again — probably believes that referring to the good news, even when they have a unique and exceptional character, as happened today, is not relevant. Mr President, we have turned social support into charity. No, Mr. Member, years of socialist policies have transformed many people dependent on state support, too dependent on state support! What is needed is to teach fishing, what is needed is to put people in a position to regain their dignity and not to be waiting for the state's alms, exactly contrary to what you say. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, we are not available for a serious debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u38	They're not! We can't even do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u39	I do not know whether the honourable Member is referring to the government. But if you refer to the government, I have to tell you that the government has done nothing but debate and dialogue with the oppositions in Parliament, and seriously on my part. And I dare say that it seems to me that the honourable Member does it the same way. Our debates are serious, Mr President. We may disagree, but these are serious debates! So I don't understand your complaint. We are fully available. If you are referring to the usefulness you would see in the Prime Minister to comment on the ideas of economists of the Socialist Party, projects of the Socialist Party program, that I have to do with particimony because it is still a process in progress. But on that point, Mr President, I have already said that it is enough. Look, I am sorry that the Socialist Party did not want Parliament to ask UTAO for a technical assessment of the macroeconomic scenario presented by socialist economists.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u40	Why don't they evaluate you? Can't you evaluate it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u41	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u42	And I am sorry, Mr. Member, because these economists said they were available for an independent evaluation, but the Socialist Party did not want it. Mr President, the criticisms that I can give you are far beyond the technique are political. So far, the programme presented by the Socialist Party summarizes the most consumption, a growth strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u43	Leia, read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u44	... led by consumption, available income given to people artificially, without even budgetary compensation due to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u45	Go read what UTAO says about you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u46	And you can at the same time tell the Portuguese people that they are pursuing the policy that led us to the rescue and that you think that this is the right way. Mr President, that cannot be the right way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u47	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u48	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am truly impressed by the blackout of social reality in your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u50	But will it be insensitive? By incompetence? Out of ignorance? Out of ignorance of this reality? Of course it is not, it is a political option, it is a turned option for the increase of exploitation. And when I heard him speak here, as you said, of this government, which was an authentic factory of poor people in Portugal, which exponentially increased poverty, it means only this conception, this understanding that these dramas are only collateral damage to politics. I wanted to start with a question that we have already put to him and which he has already answered, although it is wrong. 15 days ago we asked him about the tax forgiveness granted to the New Bank. He replied that there was no exemption regime for the New Bank and that everything is done in accordance with the regime existing in the Tax Benefit Statute. the following day, the PSD and CDS members presented a proposal to re-legalize...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u51	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u52	...the tax forgiveness to the New Bank, above all trying to do so under a law on banking commissions so that no one would notice. In short, the Government has awarded the New Bank a tax pardon that it could not assign, then tried to pass a law to legalize it and, as this law has not been published in time, is now trying to legalise tax forgiveness retroactively. And the values of this tax forgiveness to the New Bank are a real scandal. This is a tax pardon of at least EUR 85 million in registration emoluments, but in seal and IMT taxes may be involved more than a hundred million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u53	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u54	Considering the total volume of credits transferred to the New Bank, and an estimate below, a tax forgiveness may be involved for the New Bank in a total of EUR 445 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u55	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u56	In other words, the government, which crushes employees and small tax-holders, which does not forgive a penny to those who delay paying taxes, which still houses for debts of €800, is the same government that decides to make tailored laws to grant a tax forgiveness of €445 million only to a bank. This does not count on the transfer of tax credits, which may reach more than EUR 240 million to the New Bank, to the ride of the same customised laws. It is a policy of two pesos and two measures. Therefore, because it is serious, we consider it important that clarifications be given here, so I ask very specific questions. First question: does the tax forgiveness granted to the New Bank also cover the seal tax and the IMT? Second: has forgiveness of these taxes already been granted or are they still preparing for it? Third: Mr. Prime Minister disagrees that the tax forgiveness in emoluments granted to the New Bank is before Law No. 23 - A / 2015? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, how does you justify this policy of tax forgiveness to the banks while crushing the Portuguese with taxes? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u57	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, reality is what is...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u60	...and we know her, so there is no blackout of reality. I have mentioned what you consider to be negative aspects of our economy with great clarity. They are part of our reality, Mr President, so there is no blackout. We know of the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made and many still do; we know that there are still too many Portuguese in unemployment; we know that there are Portuguese in unemployment and that they are no longer receiving unemployment benefit. We know that, sir, we know that! That reality is no collateral damage, that reality exists and we have to fight, which is also what this government is trying to do. We can therefore discuss the policies that can lead the country to a better result from this point of view, but reality exists, there is no blackout or reduction of those that are our difficulties; rather, Mr Deputy. But, and it does not hurt, it seems to me that there is a certain prejudice in the way in which you put the question about the tax forgiveness of the New Bank, which was the big question or the big questions that you wanted to ask. The Minister for Finance was in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration this morning.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u61	It wasn't brilliant at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u62	...and, of course, you have had the opportunity to respond to these matters. at least I have seen notes in the social communication that point in this direction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u63	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u64	...but I believe, Mr. Member, that the notes from the media could be overstated. Sometimes that happens. But something must have been said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u65	No, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u66	...because, if not, the media didn't report it. Mr President, what I can do is confirm what I have already said in response to the last question you have asked me about this: no, there is no exceptional regime!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u67	It's a lie again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u68	We, on a proposal from the Tax Authority and under the Tax Benefit Statute, have made possible a set of operations of the New Bank, which are, in accordance with the rules of the code, appropriate to be granted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u69	False! They passed a law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u70	He said, however, that this is not the case, that there were doubts and that, therefore, the majority tried to legalise this tax benefit which the Tax Authority intended to grant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u71	Sure! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u72	Mr President, first of all, nothing has been done on the table, it has been very clear; secondly, it is clear to the Government and to the majority that it supports it that the spirit of the legislator, in this matter of the Tax Benefit Statute, is very clear when it comes to business restructurings...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u73	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u74	Sir, don't hurt me if I answer! The gentlemen. Members ask the question and then they do not want to hear the answer. I don't understand why. Sir, let me answer. Then you have time to go back to the load, to insist and say no! Let me answer! For us, there is no doubt — I think that you will certainly not be the only Portuguese on the ground to realize - that the New Bank has inherited the assets of BES.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u75	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u76	You must be aware of that, of course, everyone has! That is why this is an operation which, according to the Tax Authority, is closer to a restructuring than to an operation in which people are alienating within a given company another company, which comes out of itself, or assets that it owns. There is no commercial sale here, Mr. Member, the resolution was made by order of the Banco de Portugal, not by the will of Banco Espírito Santo, was by determination of the Banco de Portugal. However, the Statute of Tax Benefits had not yet expressly provided for... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u77	... the possibilities for resolution. But, Mr. Member, when a law expressly does not provide for it, it can be interpreted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u78	Retroactively? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u79	...and that's what the Tributary Authority did. There is no need to legalize anything, because the interpretation of the Tax Authority is legal! It's legal, sir! And there's no retroactive effect here on anything! But, Mr President, just to prevent any doubt that will be put in the future in relation to other operations that can be done, this clarification has been made in the code.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u80	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u81	It's as simple as that, sir! There's nothing else and there's nothing hidden! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u82	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u83	Madam President, Prime Minister, there has already been an advance here: the recognition that the allocation of these tax benefits did not have legal coverage... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u84	...and, therefore, in order to face the cheek, the majority needed to make a change to the law, as a shoe, in order to legalize what was not legal, i.e. the allocation of these benefits. Then also let something happen here: this New Bank is to privatize and, finally, as we admitted that a tax benefit would be applied to a state company... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] Why are you laughing, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Aren't you going to privatize the New Bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u85	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u86	Don't you? Oh, my God! So let's record that position. Mr Prime Minister, essentially, the policy of two pesos and two measures is set here and we note that it is 175 new cases of Portuguese, business, families that cannot pay their debts. The government is implacable and orders 'pay'! » and to the bank « forgive yourself! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is the big conclusion that we can draw from a policy of two pesos and two measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u88	As regards the questions of the social blackout, Prime Minister, it is not necessary to say that he will find the doctors needed to, by the end of December — he will no longer be here, possibly — to respond to the wishes of these 1, 2 million Portuguese. There are social dramas, for example, on the issue of social day care. Do you know Mr. Prime Minister that there are thousands of young families waiting to find a daycare center where to put their children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u89	He wants to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u90	So worried about birth! ...The great drama is that these concerns sound false! It is that, in relation to the problems as concrete as this one I am putting to you, of the need for social day care, the government does not respond, because the State does not have the capacity to respond. That is why it is two pesos and two measures, a policy of exploitation and impoverishment. I was listening to him speaking in Guimarães and I thought 'well, Mr. Prime Minister sings well, but I am not happy'. Do not rejoice at me, nor rejoice at the millions of unemployed Portuguese or in poverty! But I feel deeply confident in one thing: the Portuguese people, one day, will send him to sing to another street. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u91	You have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, who still has some time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u92	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I did not say that it was necessary to legalize and therefore that there was no need to reverse anything to legalize any tax forgiveness. I didn't say anything like that, I said the opposite, Mr! Don't conclude the opposite of what I said! I am sure you said the opposite and, at the end of the day, the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic will be faithful to what I said here. Secondly, Mr President, we are going to privatize the New Bank. No, Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u93	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u94	...the New Bank is not public and therefore not public, it is not to privatize.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u95	Liar! It's public! It's exclusively public!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u96	No, Mr. Deputies, the New Bank resulted from the resolution of Banco Espírito Santo, which was not a public bank, and is at this time in charge of Banco de Portugal to be returned to the private sector by Banco de Portugal, and therefore not to have the other banks as shareholders, but to have a shareholder himself. That's what's gonna happen! You know who pays for this operation is the resolution fund, i.e. the banks and the Portuguese financial system. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u97	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u98	Finally, Mr President, we need social day care. It is true, Mr President, that there is a difference, but there is a difference: we have come to significantly increase the supply of these social day care centres, whether directly or indirectly, through the institutions of social solidarity that have the support of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u99	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u100	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, Mr President, we have come to extend this network and we believe that, between 3 and 5 years of age, it is almost in a position to be considered mandatory and provided directly or indirectly with public support. That is why, Mr President, in this particular case, for the attention of the honourable Member, our progress has been immense. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u101	We move on to the questions of the Left Block, to what I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u102	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, it was not to start here, but, if I allow myself a previous note, to the public health of our debate, let us say so, I heard you talking with so much satisfaction of your 20 reforms that I remembered that, when we go to the government site, the first reform that appears is that of the IRS, the text of which is as follows: "The reform of the IRS was an important step in reducing bureaucracy and relieving families, especially those who have the greatest burdens. It is undoubtedly a family-friendly reform." Prime Minister knows that the IRS of families has increased by 30 %, don't you? Oh, my God! If this is a family friend, families don't need enemies! Mr Prime Minister has to agree that this number of propaganda looks like the famous Iraqi minister. It is not possible to come here to give families what their penalty was. But there is another very short correction, which I think it would be good to do in this debate. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government has not introduced English 1. the cycle, it was the previous government. [[PSD protests.]] What your government did was remove English to 65 000 children from 1. the cycle. Therefore, we are talking about the validity of the analysis of your mandate. So let's go to business, Prime Minister. on Friday, the PSD and CDS benches approved here a law to retroactively try to legalize an office of the Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio, to give a tax ruling to the New Bank. The question we have to ask you is the same as we have already asked the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance has not answered: what is the size of the tax bill of Paul Nuncio's decree? It is that the decree does not say the number and we want to know whether it is a "bottomless well" or whether there is a limit for this tax ruling. We know that it is at least EUR 85 million, but what is the size of this tax ruling to the New Bank? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u103	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u104	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on reforms, let me tell you that it is true that we have managed to carry out a reform in the IRS by 2015 which is a friend of the most numerous families. That's right, it's factual! The honourable Member refers to the introduction of a supertax in 2012 — that is what the honourable Member refers to — but this overtax has an extraordinary character and has a programmed removal, Mrs. But we introduced by 2015 a reform in the IRS that is a friend of numerous families, insofar as it alleviates the tax effort of these more numerous families. That's the reality. The honourable Member may be against or think she would have other solutions, but this was the reform that the government has made. So she does, doesn't she? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u105	The problem is that families pay more than 30% of IRS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u106	As for the questions that Mrs de Sousa has asked in response to what Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has already asked, I believe that what I have answered to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa is absolutely concrete and has the information that it is appropriate to give, I have no other elements to give and I therefore reiterate what I said recently. But the honourable Member says that the former Government introduced English 1. the cycle and that we took off. Mr Member, I am sorry, but that is not the case, it was this government that introduced, with a compulsory character, English 1. the cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u107	Listen to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u108	It was not mandatory, it was an option and, like all the options, it could or could not be chosen. But when someone else is number two. the cycle, began with English, which was mandatory, had to start from zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u110	Why? Because it cannot be assumed, as a learning prerequisite, that something that is optional has been studied. Therefore, in fact, English, in mandatory terms, started on 2nd. the cycle, not 1. the, and now it starts at 1. the cycle. That's right, Mrs. Member, it's reality! We did not remove English from anyone, we made it compulsory for everyone in 1. The cycle, look at it, Mrs. Deputy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u111	Again, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are not now going to be confused with juggling about what you have done or what you have not done. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u113	The truth is that families are paying more than 30% of IRS and there are 65,000 children without English 1. the cycle. And it's not worth repeating the numbers. Mr. Prime Minister wants to run away from the question I asked him, which is the following: how much is the tax exemption from Paul Nuncio's office, a number that the Minister of Finance did not want to move forward either? There is something here that needs to be explained, because, Prime Minister, these days, with the excuse that BES / New Bank was a restructuring, has at least EUR 85 million of exemption from this order by Paul Nuncio, which will be at least EUR 85 million, but Mr Prime Minister refuses to say what it is. Let us note that it is EUR 85 million, because there is a restructuring. But a few days ago, Mr Prime Minister/Government approved EUR 240 million on a deferred tax basis because it was not a restructuring but a resolution. Let us see if we understand: when the New Bank is restructured, 85 million tax benefits; when the New Bank has the resolution, 240 million euros of tax benefits. With always different arguments, in a few days there are already EUR 325 million in tax benefits for the New Bank. You know, Prime Minister, with your vote, 325 million euros were cut into family allowances for the families of this country. The same government that now gives the New Bank! The question we have to ask is: what is the government's rush to give the New Bank so many tax benefits? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u114	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u115	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the State has dealt with the resolution process in accordance with which it should be treated. It was the Banco de Portugal that imposed a resolution. The interpretation that the Tax Studies Centre made of this operation seems entirely correct to me, but it was the Tax Studies Centre, the Government approved it. As a result, this operation was treated in terms of how a restructuring process would be treated, although in this case it had been decided by the regulator, by the supervisor. Madam Member, let me tell you the following: I don't know why you are willing to make this demagogic suggestion that we are here to make a benefit treatment for the Bank's resolution process. Mrs. Deputy and her party, the Block, were defending until the nationalisation of all banks! Mrs Deputy, tell me: how much would it cost the Portuguese purses to nationalize the Banco Espírito Santo? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u116	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, a government that, when it comes to pensions, wages, education, health, culture, science, responds whenever there is no money has to know very well how to answer the question: "Where is the money going? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The New Bank began, in the lead, with EUR 2865 million in tax benefits, a bank without damages, clean, because the losses remained in the BES and still had this credit, which is used taking into account possible losses from the bank. The New Clean Bank, without prejudice, then with 2865 million euros for tax benefits! Then, using the argument that it was a restructuring, it took over EUR 85 million; then using the argument that it was a resolution, plus EUR 240 million that the Tax Authority had already denied. [[PSD protests.]] In other words, your government is already going to « fatten » the New Bank by more than EUR 3000 million. My question is this: is to do what? Is it to try to make a ‘number’ of sales from the New Bank better to get away with propaganda, but then we will be here for years and years to pay the credits you are offering to future buyers? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u118	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, do not insist on this line because I am not going to accompany you. The tax administration has treated this operation in accordance with what it found appropriate in relation to the arrangements applicable to these matters by analogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u120	The Tax Authority has given a negative opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u121	And it makes all the sense, I've already said it and I'm not going to repeat it. But, Mrs Deputy, now—it is my curiosity—I would like you to answer my question: how much would it cost the Portuguese directly to nationalize the Banco Espírito Santo, who defends? It's because this operation doesn't cost the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u122	That doesn't matter anymore, does it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u123	How much would it cost to nationalize the Bank? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u124	Again, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u125	Let's see if we understand: do you think your solution is good because you want to take ownership of the shares due to the tax credits that you are now providing to the New Bank? I mean, is the government considering making the New Bank a public bank? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u126	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, what a mess! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] All arrangements applicable to deferred tax credits apply to all companies. There is legislation on this, Mrs. There is no custom legislation either of the New Bank or of the Banco Espírito Santo. It's for all companies, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u128	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u129	Therefore, it applies in accordance with the law. This government is acting within the law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u130	Again, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, sometimes gives tax benefits to the New Bank, because it is resolution ; sometimes it gives tax benefits to the New Bank, because it is not resolution but restructuring. Once, do it, because there is law; again, do it, because there is no law and it will create the law to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u133	However, only for tax benefits are there more than EUR 3000 million. The Prime Minister has signed a law by his hand that enables him to convert tax credits into shares. Unless you're thinking about taking public control of the New Bank and therefore giving these tax benefits so that the New Bank will remain a public bank, what you realize is that the Prime Minister is giving a huge gift to those who buy the New Bank. What is left here to answer today, Prime Minister, are several things, and still have time, you have to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u134	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u135	I conclude, Madam President. First of all, the office signed by Paulo Nuncio how much is it for the country? It's a tax broker to New Bank how much? Secondly, will the Government assume ownership of the shares by way of tax credits, as provided for by the law which the Prime Minister has signed? Or will these tax credits be for private people who buy the New Bank and we will be paying for these billions of euros that are now compromising on the New Bank for years? [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Thirdly, is Mr Prime Minister still able to say that there is no risk for taxpayers in the solution that has been found for the New Bank? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u136	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u137	Madam President, Madam Member, I do not understand whether the Member wants to discuss the problem of deferred tax credits that apply to any company or whether she wants to discuss the New Bank's situation. If you want to discuss the tax credit scheme, I will reply that this debate has already taken place in Parliament. That's it! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] The honourable Member may raise any debate on this matter and is entitled to insist on a special issue, which is the tax credit that can be attributed to any company. What I can say, Mrs Deputy, first of all, is that this scheme is not the New Bank regime, nor the BES; it is a regime that exists for all companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u138	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u139	I repeat, for all companies! Secondly, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that the application of this scheme to all entities with regard to the financial system would apply either to the New Bank or to BES. I would like to know your opinion: would the honourable Member prefer that the resolution body, in this case the Banco de Portugal, had left these credits for deferred taxes in BES for its shareholders or in the New Bank? I'd like you to answer me. Because this is what this is about, they exist, they are recognized by the law. Should we leave them at Banco Espírito Santo for their shareholders or did Banco de Portugal do well to pass these credits to the New Bank? I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u140	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u141	Third, the losses which may arise, resulting from the New Bank's sale operation, will be assimilated by the Resolution Fund and therefore by the Portuguese financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u142	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u143	That's said, rewritten and said again, as it happened today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u144	For the Greens, to put questions, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, on this subject which has been discussed, that of tax exemptions to the New Bank, is curious, because Mr Prime Minister has been giving answers and talking about tax administration as if nothing had to do with the Government, as if it were almost an external entity to decide on the matter, without any possibility or perhaps an order from the Secretary of State, with a strong impact on the matter. Do not wash your hands from what the government has responsibility, nor flee to the answer, because of what Mr. Prime Minister has already had the opportunity to answer on the matter, there is a conclusion that can already be drawn: he may not have been granted tax exemption to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u147	And in that case, Prime Minister, the country would, perhaps, win anything like more than 450 million euros around.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u149	Or does the Prime Minister want to stay for the EUR 85 million and explain the rest? Quantify, Prime Minister. You've already been asked the question here, but Mr. Prime Minister doesn't want to get into numbers... The question the Greens are asking is the following: is the country in a position not to obtain these EUR 450 million or, if you wish, to remain even for the EUR 85 million, Prime Minister? Are we in a position to do that? Oh, my God! Do we have a situation for that? Oh, my God! More: Mr Prime Minister, in his initial speech he boasted that he had created an extraordinary contribution on the energy sector (EPPED) and that he had even extended the scope of this contribution. But Mr. Prime Minister didn't say that he's going to start breaking up with her strongly for the year, or that there's no more than two years from now! Since the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector has been made, that Mr. Prime Minister was bragging, are we in a position to lose EUR 100 million annually? Does the country have conditions for this? After all, Prime Minister, you like to make the country lose money for the big interests. For these there are always benefits, there is never a burden and, when there is, it is always very short! For the Portuguese, it's loading, loading and loading! You can't be, Prime Minister! Why, for example, does it not keep it final in relation to this extraordinary contribution? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u150	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u151	I believe that the honourable Member has been getting used to us here in Parliament to a greater alignment with the Left Block than with the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u152	How funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u153	I do not know if this will have consequences for future elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u154	But I will reply to the honourable Member, saying the following: First of all, Mr. Secretary of State made a statement on the opinion of the Tax Research Centre. There is no doubt that the order that Mr. Secretary of State made is in line with what was proposed by the tax administration. This is the natural order of things. So nobody washes their hands of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u155	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u156	If the government did not agree with the interpretation made by the tax administration it did not clear. It has done so, because it is obviously in line with the proposal. The tax proposal makes sense, Mrs Deputies, and I have explained it here and I will not do it again. The honourable Member thinks that it is worth paying for operations which do not result from alienation, nor from the sale decided by itself. This is a matter which has been imposed, decided by Banco de Portugal itself, by the supervisor. It was not Dr. Ricardo Salgado who decided that he was going to make the New Bank and transfer from BES to the New Bank those assets to win with them, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u157	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u158	Who decided to transfer these assets from Banco Espírito Santo to the New Bank was the Banco de Portugal. And you did it for what? To preserve the interest of taxpayers, the interest of the country's financial stability and the interest of the country, therefore.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u159	And who's going to stay with the New Bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u160	The honourable Member wants to tax that interest. The honourable Member wanted to say this: "No, no, but how you do all this and imposed on the Holy Spirit Bank all this, now work with it, if you please! Why does the state not yet have to profit from that? It was fair! », says the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u161	It's not profiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u162	Madam Member, if you paid all the demagogy that is done, Portugal was a rich country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u163	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u164	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is not about profiting from the tax, it is about not losing money. The country is not in a position to lose money to benefit the large financial capital and the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u166	It's not in those conditions! And then, Prime Minister, why did you run away from the question about the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector? Why don't you want to talk about the contradiction of having boasted of something that created and extended and which, after all, is going to end by the year? Why? Is the country in a position to lose EUR 100 million annually? Mr. Prime Minister, this is a deep incoherence and then admires about 60% of the young Portuguese between the ages of 15 and 24 give the chance to emigrate because they see their country's doors closed to their future hope, because they think that out there is where they will find living conditions and livelihood, theirs and their families. There is no hope in this country! And Mr. Prime Minister comes here and boasts that after the troika leaves, everything was wonderful! Steps have been taken that was a joy, Prime Minister! Don't! The Portuguese didn't even notice the difference, you know, Prime Minister! That's the reality! With the troika here or after the troika went away, everything was the same, because the government was doing the work of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u167	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u168	I will finish, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, there are answers you need to give. Basically, the country needs a different direction, a different policy, and those who fail to ensure this policy will naturally seek to continually degrade the lives of the Portuguese. I think you need to make a call: you can't take it anymore! Your limit is endless, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u169	Once you have time, you have the floor of Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u170	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I have not really answered about the EESC, but I now answer your question. The EESC is an extraordinary contribution. Other extraordinary measures are in place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u171	They were all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u172	Our perspective is that, over the next four years, almost all extraordinary measures can be removed, including this one. There is only one that we do not yet have forecast for its removal, which is the overtax that applies on the IRC for companies with higher profits. But by taking this away, all other extraordinary measures will be gradually removed, as is the case with the EESC, too. The take or pay contracts will be subject to an extended scope of the EESC for two years and the EESC will be removed within three years, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u173	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u174	It will be removed in three years! It will also be removed in two years, for example, the extraordinary contribution to higher pensions. in this case, it will be faster. For these it will be in two years. We plan to remove within four years any measure affecting wages or income tax for natural persons. That's the way it is, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u175	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u176	That's scheduled, but it must be good news. Along with this removal of what is extraordinary, we managed to eliminate by 2020... Finally, I do not say to eliminate exactly, because in our estimate there will be a lack of close to 600 million euros that will be easily recoverable in one or two subsequent years. But by 2020, the tariff deficit, which we did not create and which increased, when I arrived at the government, will be eliminated and without recourse to taxes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u177	We're talking about something else, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u178	... and with actual increases, every year, less than 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u180	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, I believe that the programming we are doing is correct and appropriate and if it can be fulfilled, so much better, because the country is definitely free from what is extraordinary, without asking the troika to come here again, without unbalanced its external accounts, without having to have an excessive deficit, without having to see increase unemployment or poverty as a result of measures that have to be taken to correct imbalances. And that, Mrs. Member, makes a lot of difference. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u181	by the CDS-PP, for questions, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u182	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, we are already at the end of the debate and we have seen that the opposition, especially the main party, has basically accused Mr Prime Minister of three things: first, to be predictable; then to come here—see well! — make a balance sheet of your activity as Prime Minister and the balance sheet of your government's activity; finally, to celebrate the end of the troika. Mr. Prime Minister, let's go to parties. As for the fact that it is predictable, I can tell you that the CDS and, I believe, the Portuguese have no lack of any of the PS government where it was unpredictable to know whether we had money to pay wages and pensions in 15 days and that, therefore, we had to call the troika. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] As regards the balance sheet made, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say that there is a lot to highlight — I will go there — about the data that have come to the public in the last few weeks, but I cannot afford to pass a statement by the Secretary-General of the PS today repeated by Mr Ferro Rodrigues, who say that the Portuguese will only celebrate the departure from Portugal's troika when this government is gone. Mr. Prime Minister, there are limits! The Portuguese remember and know what happened. So who's the one who called the troika in 25? the time and why did the responsible Minister of Finance have publicly come to expose the situation of the country? It was the PS. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Who ended this memorandum in time and according to the plan? It was this majority. Who wanted more time, more money, more program, more troika here? O PS! Who finished the program at the right time and the right time? It was the majority! There are limits, Prime Minister! We know we're getting closer to an election moment, but, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members, insults, insults happened in 2009 : to win elections, irresponsiblely, they carried out the generic increase in public service pensions to, two years later, go by hand to ask for money to pay the essential for the country to continue to survive! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u183	And how did the CDS vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u184	That was an insult to the Portuguese, an insult that lasted three difficult years, we do not deny. But the most extraordinary, and what we can conclude, is that, in fact, a party that brought the troika to the country to win elections doesn't realize, nor will you ever realize, why it celebrates the exit of the troika. And that is essential that it be said here, moreover, because the Socialist Party itself says that it would do everything equal to 2011. He says he would do exactly what he promised in 2011: more public investment, more debt, more deficit, more troika. We have come to the conclusion that when they talk about the troika they miss her and that if they have some responsibilities they will even return to it. It's good to make this clear, for future memory. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to say that you did well to remind us of this date which is important to us. One year after the troika exit we have more exports, in the order of 4 % — record of the records that seem to disturb the opposition — and fewer imports; we have a more balanced commercial balance, a growth in the order of 1, 4 % — contrary to what many said possible — in six consecutive quarters, i.e. one and a half years, which reveals some consistency and strength; we have an industrial production that has increased and increased more than the European Union average ; we have confidence rates at most since 2006, and perhaps that is why it is understood that Portugal, for the first time, can place public debt on the market with negative interest. This reveals exactly the trust and credibility that whoever lends us money has in this kind of policy. And this is not only important for the common citizen, because by paying less interest, of course, other measures will not have to be taken. So I wanted to say that we would all like everything to be faster and that these macroeconomic data could reach the microeconomics. It's coming there slowly, and we'd like it to be faster. But without them, which are a sine qua no condition, could never reach the real economy—as, moreover, it is coming—because today we are no longer discussing such a recessive spiral, whether or not there is a recession. Today, we discuss whether we are going to grow 1, 4 %, 1, 6 %, 1, 7% or up to 2%. And that's fundamental. Mr Prime Minister, it is important to keep track not only of the reforms that are being made and of those that have already been done, but also of those that still need to be done, in particular, and to realize the issue that I wanted to put to you, in relation to the TAP and the need to save a flag company. On this issue, too, it seems to me that the state of the greatest opposition party is symptomatic. We are going to the facts, making some sort of review of the matter. First, the PS Government wanted to privatize TAP ; second, it wanted to merge TAP with another company; third, the merger of TAP with another company would obviously be 100 %; fourth, by chance, that company, Suissair, failed, and as it failed no longer would be TAP — another fact that it should be recalled to the PS ; fifth, it enrolled it in all the PECs; sixth, it enrolled it in the Memorandum of Understanding which it negotiated and signed on behalf of Portugal and then to 30. the day, in the last few minutes, comes to condemn an absolutely irresponsible strike. But when we think that the Socialist Party has reached the limit of irresponsibility—and here, yes, we can be surprised by the Socialist Party which, unlike us, has this gift— comes its Secretary-General trying to devalue, discredit...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u185	No one called him!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u186	... try to calm down, harm an operation that is essential not for the government, but for TAP, for its workers and for all those who, like us, consider it to be a flag company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u187	Mr. Prime Minister, he wants to seem to us that the Socialist Party remains somewhat like itself. He did not learn from the past, with what happened in 2011. Perhaps, if we had the same attitude as the Socialist Party advocated for the TAP, what could have happened in the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo would have happened if the government had not taken the measures it took — and very well. We see, above all, that the Socialist Party continues in a titubian stance and the balance sheet: it is the macroeconomic scenario that is not a Bible, it is a project of an electoral project, it is a set of causes! Of all this there is only one certainty: the Portuguese still do not know what the greater party of the opposition thinks, what it proposes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u188	Do you want more? Ask 29 more questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u189	... which is the alternative you may or may not choose. And this is serious, first of all, for democracy! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u190	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u191	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, TAP has now entered a decisive phase of privatization. It was very important that we could have recovered the initiative in this process, since in 2012 we did not have the opportunity to give it an appropriate destination. We did it at the time, in view of what were the rules of the Cargo Chain itself. They were not respected and therefore we could not close the business. We can only successfully conclude a process of privatization with whom we comply with the rules that are established in the process of privatization itself. this time, despite many difficulties, we managed to formalize three candidates binding proposals for the acquisition of TAP. I say that this is quite important because, first of all, the Pilot Union decided to announce and carry out a strike which had very high costs, from a financial and from a reputational point of view, for the company, which could have called into question the interests of private individuals to be able to compromise with the future of the company. Secondly, we had the largest opposition party to clearly threaten the whole process if anyone dared to submit proposals that pointed to the purchase of more than 49 % of the company. Fortunately, this threat also ended up not calling into question the submission of proposals, but it could have, I repeat, been able to put forward. I have no doubt because this has been declared, by some and others, that they want this result, they want to prevent the privatisation operation. I must say here what I have already said on other occasions, and also in Parliament, i.e. this privatisation operation of TAP will certainly be the best way to preserve the company, save it and be able to project it in the future. I do not yet have an evaluation of the proposals on my own; the government will, in time, be empowered by its advisors with this assessment and will decide, and I hope they will allow us to complete this process. It is clear, of what happened to the Viana do Castelo Shipkeepers, such as Mr Nuno Magalhães, and very well, here he recalled, that when the State does not intervene properly and compatible with the rules it is subject to, the consequences can be dramatic. in the case of the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo, we always had the concern to say that the best way to protect the stay of that activity was to make a sub-concession that would protect the shipbuilding in the tradition that was implanted in Viana do Castelo, that if the restructuring of the company had been done in another way, as, for example, the Socialist Party wanted, we could incur the possibility of having State aid, which would most likely be considered as such. « No, sir! ' — several Mrs said. Members and various members of the opposition. « No, sir! »...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u192	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u193	... « You do not want to restructure the company». And the same restructuring that the Socialist Party had designed and which involved the dismissal, already at the time, of nearly half of the workers of the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo, was, for them, a better alternative, as now is the restructuring of the TAP, perhaps with half of the workers there. But what the state would have to repay...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u194	Looks like a conversation to the fireplace!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u195	... or, in this case, the concession or privatisation that would have been made, therefore, the alienation that would have been made would have to make the reimbursement in State aid and it was not appropriate to maintain the operation. This is the reality. What happened was that we followed the correct option and the European Commission came to say, at the end of the process, precisely that there had been state aid that was not considered legal and that, in the event that the company did not have to go to extinction, they would have to be returned, which would represent the impossibility of today's shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo. So, Mr Nuno Magalhães, the example you brought here is eloquent to demonstrate that it was no longer the first time that we followed a correct strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u196	It looks like family conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u197	...and if the suggested alternative strategy had been followed would have led again to disaster. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u198	The next intervention is by Mr Luís Montenegro, the PSD. To put your questions, you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Madam Secretary of State : Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to start by telling you that this debate started quite well, quite frankly well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u200	And it's going to end badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u201	Not only because Mr Prime Minister here presented a very significant cast of what Portugal was able to do in the post-troika period, in the last year, and this cast did not deserve any contest by the opposition parties, as the only visible challenge by the Socialist Party — no doubt! — asked the Prime Minister and the majority why we commemorate the departure of the troika a year ago. The PS doesn't understand why the troika is celebrated. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: then, the Portuguese—it is no longer only the majority and the government, but the Portuguese—they had to celebrate what? The entrance of the troika in Portugal? Is that what was worth celebrating? Was that the commemoration that the Socialist Party liked to have the Portuguese do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u202	The gentlemen have celebrated!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u203	Mr. Prime Minister, it is very difficult to understand who is not able to meet with history. But this debate started and continued to run well, because there was a lot of clarity of positions. There was, in fact, a lot of clarity in positions. The Prime Minister and the Government have spoken, as I said recently about the post-troika period, of the year since the troika left Portugal until today. And on the side of the Socialist Party there was also a clear message. Mr. Prime Minister said what the country is doing, what is the transformation we are undertaking in Portugal and the Socialist Party said: « We, the Socialist Party, are defending today exactly what we defended four years ago». It can't be clearer, Prime Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Even I dare say, by complimenting Mr. Ferro Rodrigues' sincerity, that coherence goes even further: the Socialist Party wants to do, in Portugal, what it did four years ago, five years ago, six years ago, seven years ago, in the last 20 years, in Portugal, Mr. Prime Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Even today, Dr. António Costa has well summarized this position of the Socialist Party, that is, what the Socialist Party wants. He said today, and I quote: « The Socialist Party's programme brings an increase in expenditure, but it also brings a reduction in expenditure; it brings an increase in revenue, but it also brings a reduction in revenue». The Socialist Party's recipe is to do everything at the same time. This is the Socialist Party's recipe! But we also know what is the result of the political stance and credibility of the Socialist Party's political proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u204	It's the square of the circle! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u205	But that shouldn't scare you! That's what you've been doing for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u206	Despite all this clarity, Prime Minister, the truth is this: one year after we have finished our Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, Portugal is growing, the Portuguese economy is growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u207	The Portuguese are not! They're getting poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u208	in the first quarter, GDP grew in chains and grew in homologous terms; the rates of confidence and economic activity are growing; the interest of our debt is historically low; our exports hit the record in volume in 2014 and continue to rise above that record. In addition, only to have an idea of the growth size in the first quarter of 2015, exports grew 4 %, but in March, compared to the same period of 2014, they grew more than 10 %. This is good news, Prime Minister, and I don't believe there's anyone who doesn't think it's good news.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u209	What about the bad credit?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u210	They are good news for the Portuguese, because behind these results there are job opportunities, behind these results is the financial balance of the State, which ensures that there are public services accessible to those who need them, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. That's why this is good and it's not just numbers. Although statistics are, behind the numbers and statistics is the well-being of people, families and Portuguese companies, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, the Socialist Party is disappointed, it is discouraged by the fact that Portugal has achieved these results. And we have to be understanding, because the Socialist Party is right to have some disappointment here, because it has predicted, pessimistically, negative, that none of this would happen in Portugal. The Socialist Party frightened the country, announcing that there was a recessive spiral, that we were not going to finish the program, that we would need a second programme, then that we would need a cautious programme, that unemployment would not stop growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u211	You don't think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u212	It is clear that, for those who have made this speech, looking at a reality that categorically disunity, there is some disillusionment, there is some disillusionment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u213	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u214	...but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, appreciate what this represents for the lives of our fellow citizens, for the lives of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u215	It's okay! ... People don't need anything! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u216	Looking at the discourse of the Socialist Party, it is important to say that this stance doublely disrespects the Portuguese: firstly, because it does not recognise to the Portuguese the ability to overcome the most difficult difficulties and times and, secondly, because it does not recognize, it is not able to admit, the positive results we have achieved. however, the Socialist Party has been coherent, that is true, that has been coherent and will continue to be, we already know that it will continue to be. In fact, you realize, you have already entered this electoralist drift, which is firm and constant in facilitation and arrogance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u217	It's the country of wonders!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u218	See that in half a dozen days, the Socialist Party has already promised to lower VAT, lower IRS, lower the single social rate, return to 35 hours of work, restore holidays, raise national minimum wage, undo all structural reforms and, of course, lay the groundwork for the return of a new open public investment programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u219	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u220	This is what the Socialist Party has said to the country in recent days. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Then comes the miracle of roses, which, in fact, is very appropriate for the Socialist Party, because the Socialist Party will do all this and will comply with the budget treaty, will do all this and will reduce the deficit, will do all this and will reduce the debt, will do all this and will reduce unemployment. In fact, the Socialist Party is equal to itself, just like four years ago, five, six, at last, like itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u221	Marco Antonio explains!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u222	It is also true to say that the Socialist Party is in opposition to fulfilling one of its designs, I believe, which is the following: before another party remembers, the Socialist Party wants to assume as its own Portuguese version of the political children's story in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u224	This is what the Socialist Party tells the Portuguese: “We will achieve everything and its opposite, we will promise everything and its opposite.” Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to point out that the Socialist Party has also shown another characteristic, arrogance. In the last debate here I spoke about how the Socialist Party and its leader face the criticisms they hear or read in the media, but this case of the TAP and the way the Socialist Party behaved is worthy of public denunciation of a culture of power and the arrogance of the Socialist Party. Dr. António Costa told the country, in his words, the following: « Let no one think about buying more than 49 % of the capital of TAP », in the full process of privatization. As has already been said, the PS launched the privatisation of TAP in Portugal by placing it in the PECs and the Memorandum, and the PS, which lost the elections in 2011 and only for that reason did not implement this process of privatization, now says, warn, threaten the following: «If the Socialist Party wins the elections, the legitimate decisions that the sovereignty bodies have made in Portugal on this matter will not be respected ». This is what Dr. António Costa's sentence means, and this has to be denounced, because one thing is to disagree with the privatization model—that is legitimate! — Another thing is not to respect the word of the State, the organs of the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u225	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u226	And, Prime Minister, I would like to leave you with a final note, so that I will not fail to tell you something which, in essence, should encourage us to continue. To listen, to respect the opposition, but to continue. Indeed, what we heard during the Viana do Castelo Shipyards process, what we heard, in the social communication and in Parliament! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u227	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u228	Well, the process has advanced, today the company is growing,... [[He is, he is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u229	... today the company is generating jobs, the European Union has come to be right to the argument of the government, the economy is benefiting, it is creating value and preserving shipbuilding in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u230	Indeed, Mr Prime Minister, we can respect and hear the opposition, but we have only one way, to continue, to be firm and to bring well-being to the lives of our fellow citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u231	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u232	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I believe that the description that makes it impossible to respect both the budgetary treaty and the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact, which is obviously assessed by the European Commission itself, is clear when we look at the challenge of announcements that have been made by the Socialist Party. Anyone who is moderately attentive and lucid would ask the following: if, by complying with the rules, it is possible to end the cuts, end the extraordinary measures, make the economy grow faster, have the state fit more revenue, have more employment generated with these measures, then why is the government there so stupid, who wants to lose the elections and does not do all that? Oh, my God! This is the question that any half-hearted Portuguese would ask about things. You don't need to be an economist, you don't need to be an engineer, you don't need to be a man who knows the social security processes, you don't need nothing of that, the question that I would ask was this: why are the guys who are in the government then not doing this extraordinary thing? I would ask this question and find an answer. I believe, Mr Member, that when the leader of the Socialist Party came to say that all the measures that had been presented would be taken by the Socialist Party, although they were not seen as a Bible, as someone has already said, this more seemed a little longer conversation, because, in fact, not a Bible, was presented by 12 apostles and it seems that it does miracles. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u233	But there are no miracles in the economy, nor in public finances, and the Portuguese today know this very well. And Mr. Member, whether the European Commission, either the International Monetary Fund, or the UTAO, feel that the government forecasts are a bit optimistic from 2017 onwards. Imagine what they'll think of the Socialist Party! If ours are a little optimistic, imagine the others! Open... But we know why economic growth is what it is, in terms of forecast by international institutions. It is because we do not have installed capacity, we do not have enough investment, nor financial capital to support it, which can generate more value in the economy, generate more employment and therefore generate more robust growth. This is our reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u234	24% young unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u235	We have a serious and structural problem of birth and therefore we have to adopt a policy, not a promoter of birth but that removes the obstacles to birth in Portugal. We are doing so in an increasingly consistent way, it is a process that will take years, no doubt, but we have to do and, above all, find ways to have more qualified investment, more financial capital to create jobs and produce wealth. For this we also need to have better management in companies. We do not just need to have more qualified human capital, we need better management, because we have very qualified human capital and not always the organization in which it is inserted guarantees the added value that is necessary. Therefore, there is no doubt that we need to have more transfer of knowledge from technology and research centres to the real part of the economy, we need to have more and more qualifications, but also better organization and business management and more investment capacity. The state does not have it, that is clear and assumed. Over the last few years, public investment has receded tremendously. It is not very serious, since the public investment that was made before was of very bad quality, it generated debt and no income for the country, but that is not reassuring, because we would like to have the opportunity to make public investment of quality and the only one we will be able to do in the coming years is the one that comes from European funds. in the rest, the State, if it wants to comply with the rules of the budgetary treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact, has no money to invest. That is the case, Mr President, with this government or any other government. And a government that decides to invest what does not pass the bill to the Portuguese, as it has happened in the past. This is as simple as I just said. That is why, Mr President, what we need is not to stimulate demand, although there is no doubt that the growth in the economy has been recorded, contrary to what the honourable Members say. Members of the Socialist Party, denotes the dynamization of domestic consumption, and this has to do with the Portuguese, of course, because it is not the foreigners who are consuming, it is the Portuguese who are consuming more and if they are consuming more is because they can. And we know why they can, it's not because they're doing more, it's because there's more work and there's more income that's being distributed. This is stated by INE and Banco de Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u236	Because the Constitutional Court has forced you to pay back wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u237	As I have already been able to mention enough times, the Constitutional Court does not owe any of this because what the Constitutional Court has not consented to on the side of the saving,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u238	Nothing? Oh, my God! Nothing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u239	It is true, Mrs. Member. Nothing, nothing, Mrs. Deputy! All that the Constitutional Court understood, on the side of the expenditure, which should not be allowed, was to collect the taxes. Exactly the same thing, Mrs. Member, exactly the same thing. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u240	He's proud! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u241	So there's no miracle here. When there's no money, you have to go get it! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And that's what the country knows, Mrs. Member. What the country knows is that there are those who do demagogy with the adjustment that has been made, but the Portuguese know that we are not asking for a second rescue, not a third rescue, nor making accounts to know whether we can pay the allowances, whether we can pay the wages or pensions. We are prevented from being able to do and it is not by chance, because we did the opposite of what the opposition wanted us to have done in these years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And if the Portuguese understand it that way — because they are, in fact, the one who makes that decision, it is not Parliament, it is not each one of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not any member of the government — that is the way we will continue to pursue, a path of growth for Portugal, without more debt, because that is the only way we can relieve the weight of the debt we have inherited. It is the way to increase our exports, but also to increase installed capacity and this is done only with more investment, it is done by respecting what we have decided about IRC, becoming the most attractive country for investment. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] If we don't have money to invest anymore, we have to become attractive to those who want to invest more, and to the honourable Members. Members who do not understand this may have godly intentions but will always lead the country to disaster, when they do not see reality and what are the effective restrictions that the country faces. The answers we have to find, Mr Commissioner, are therefore the answers to the problems we have and the country that we will build, every day, with our effort, is the country we want. No one today has the country that he wants but, more and more, we are doing to have a country like the one we want, and that, Mr. Deputies, makes a lot of difference, makes a lot of difference to take that path, with Troikas or without Troikas. So today I like to celebrate what I hope the Portuguese at home will know on television: that Portugal has issued treasury tickets at negative interest rates. It was the first time in your history that this happened, honourable Member, the first time in your history! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As it was the first time in democracy—it will be because I am convinced that we will do so this year—that we will have a deficit of less than 3 % in Portugal. [[The first time?! No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u242	In 41 years it will be the first time we will have a deficit of less than 3 % in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u243	Before the Rabbit Step there was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u244	And we will have for the third time, and for the fourth time for the year — it is not a coincidence, contrary to what the International Monetary Fund says — years by end, a surplus in foreign policy. What we have every year is an external balance situation. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, why does the opposition not celebrate these results? Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you know that these results have not only not been achieved with your support as we have achieved them against the opposition. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u245	End the 15-year debate here. I congratulate the Prime Minister and the members of the Government. We will continue with the reading of some file which has, however, entered the Bureau and, in this sense, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted by the President to the appeal to the Government No 22 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Working precariousness ( BE ). Law No 166 / XII ( 4 ) was withdrawn by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores. — Amendment to the system of goods in circulation, subject to transactions between taxable persons of VAT (ALRAA). We are also aware, Madam President, of the election to office as President of the Economic and Social Council, which took place on 15 May 2015, the result of which was 183 voters, 134 votes yes, 42 white votes and 7 no votes. under the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, it declares itself elected as President of the Economic and Social Council Luís Filipe of the Pereira Conceição. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-20.u247	Mrs. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow for the next 15 hours, with the next item on the agenda: the general debate on the proposal for a law No 330 / XII ( 4 ) is on item 1. ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of ourseries and contrasts. in point 2, the assessment of the 2013 General Account of the State. point 3 contains the general debate on the proposal for law No 317 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Creates the National Health Professional Inventory. of point 4 is the joint assessment of petition No 449 / XII ( 4. a ) — Presented by FENPROF, National Federation of Teachers — « Teachers challenge the municipalization of education and draft resolutions 1469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the municipalization of education and defends the universality of public school and compliance with the Basic Law of the Educational System ( PCP ), 1473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — at the end of the deresponsibility of the State and the municipalisation of education ( The Greens) and 1476 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consensus against municipalisation of schools and for school autonomy ( BE ). point 5 contains the joint debate of petition No 455 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Association of Professors of Mathematics, requesting to the Assembly of the Republic the suspension of the implementation of the Programme of Mathematics A of Secondary Education approved in January 2014, and of draft resolutions 1470 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the reintroduction of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Programme and the advertising of their evaluation results ( PCP ), 1474 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension and consequent re-evaluation of the Mathematics A programme for secondary education ( PS ) and 1477 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the application of the Mathematics A programme — 2014 ( BE). Finally, in point 6 there is the joint debate on petition No 429 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Commission to combat the exploitation of caulino in the area of Bonitos (Freguesias de Soure and Redinha), expressing its disagreement and requesting that the Assembly of the Republic discuss in plenary its effects on the quality of life of the populations, and on draft resolutions 1461 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of procedures for the granting of caulinos in Soure and Pombal ( BE ), 1465 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Immediate suspension and non-assignment of caulinus operating licence in the area of Bonitos, Soure Council ( PCP ) and 1468 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the area of Bonitos ( Soure and Redinha) free from the exploitation of caulinos ( The Greens ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
