ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 14 hours and 38 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our agenda is as follows: First, Bill No. 896 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — The Order of Social Assistants ( PS ) and petition No 522 / XII ( 4 ) shall be established. ( a ) — from the initiative of David Filipe Capt. Martins and others, requesting the general vote and speciality of Bill No. 896 / XII ( 4. ( a ) which establishes the Order of Social Assistants, up to the terms of the XII Legislation ; Secondly, draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XII ( 4 ) will also be discussed together. ( a ) — Recognition of patients with fibromyalgia ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by effectively complying with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ), petition No 463 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Fernanda Margarida Neves de Sá ( Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic in order to assess patients with fibromyalgia according to their degree of disability, and draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia ( BE); Third, the projects of lein.o 971 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of measures wrongly regarded as job promoters, such as IEC, IEC + and traineeships, to meet the permanent needs of public services and enterprises ( PS ), 972 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the protection of workers ( PCP ) and 1010 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits and regulates the use of employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +( BE ), generally and draft resolution No 1548 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to combat precariousness and amends the rules of the employment stages(BE); Subsequently, the projects of lein.o 895 / XII ( 4 ) will be evaluated together in general. ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in public service ( BE), 860 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers by making the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and the repeal of Law No 68 / 2013 of 29 August establishing the duration of the normal working time of workers in public service ( CFP ), and 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens); Fifthly, draft resolution No 1550 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensuring a new control paradigm for the animal population ( The Greens) and generally lein.o 1008 / XII projects ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the modernization of official animal collection centres and municipal veterinary services ( PCP ) and 1012 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of compulsive slaughter of animals at collection centres ( BE); Sixthly, CL shall be assessed at petition No 472 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria de Fátima Marques Carvalho and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to set up teachers under a single-doctor scheme who started their duties in 1978 / 1979 and 1979 / 1980 of a retirement scheme equal to that provided for in Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August; In seventh place, and finally, petition No 476 / XII will be discussed ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Suzana Raquel Matias da Silva Batoca and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to take up a set of measures to enable sustainability and promote the dignity of specialized artistic education, together with draft resolutions 1529 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes funding to specialized artistic music and dance schools in conditions to ensure their stability and quality education ( PCP ), 1541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard specialized artistic education through the stability of its financing model and transfers to educational institutions ( PS ) and 1545 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic schools by the State budget, guaranteeing the right to artistic education for all students ( BE ). Mrs. Members, before we get on the agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein.o 1013 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Favões parish in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1014 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Arizona, in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1015 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Magrelos parish, in the Town Hall of Marco de Canaveses, Port District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1016 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes parity in the administration and supervision bodies of public institutions, public sector enterprises, private sector companies and executive positions of the Public Administration, and establishes the adoption of equality plans ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission and draft resolution No 1551 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt exceptional measures to protect chestnuts ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which fall to 7. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u3	Mrs. Members, we are going to enter today's agenda, the first of which is the joint discussion of Bill No 896 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The Order of Social Assistants ( PS ) is hereby established, in general, and petition No 522/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — from the initiative of David Filipe Captain Martins and others, who request the general vote and speciality of Bill No 896 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which establishes the Order of Social Assistants, up to the terms of the XII Legislation. To present the Socialist Party bill, you have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two fundamental reasons motivate the Socialist Party to present the initiative to create the order of social workers and social workers. The first reason is compromise. A PS commitment to the association of social workers and assistants, in successive times in which it received this association in the parliamentary committee, on the intention to create order, and where the PS integrated a broader and inter-party group of Members and Members who encouraged the association to meet the legal conditions so that the order could be created. The first reason is therefore a compromise. The second reason is conviction. Conviction, because the creation and strengthening of our social state in order to increase in a balanced way the rights and social support, on the one hand, and the ability and requirement to make these rights and support a strategy to promote autonomy, dignity, training and integration of citizens and citizens in society in all their dimensions, on the other hand, make the profession of social workers essential elements in mediation between social policies and the proper implementation and effectiveness of these same policies. Conviction, because the strengthening of the social state, the growing investment in social policies and the greater ambition for the effectiveness of these social policies have made and have social workers and assistants in various areas of the State, such as health, education and social security, but also in civil society, with particular predominance in the social economy sector. The Portuguese State has been strengthening partnership and cooperation with the institutions of the social economy to also, through these institutions, ensure the social functions to which we are constitutionally obliged. Conviction too, because the scope of the role of social workers had as one of the consequences a growing deregulation of the profession both in the professional field and in the field of training where regulatory problems persist, which are one of the reasons for and justify the creation of this order. These reasons lead to the need for the professional field of social workers to regulate matters such as: to ensure the professional exercise of their duties; to develop and apply technical and ethical standards; to ensure adequate training requirements; to ensure professional exercise with quality; and to supervise the exercise of the profession and to exercise professional discipline. These reasons correspond to the challenges posed by this regulation of the professional field of social service, because of the constitution of its order and which are, for example: the ability to intervene in the face of social problems and risks that mark the contexts in which these professionals intervene and lead to the need to develop appropriate social diagnoses; the delimitation and consolidation of the professional field, creating conditions of public visibility of functions and professional acts oriented by the purpose of the public interest; ensuring demanding criteria in terms of quality, access to the profession, in accordance with the technical and ethical rules defined; and finally — and perhaps most important — the constitution and guarantee of the public interest by ensuring that the delicate work of social intervention in its multiple facets is carried out with competence and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is aware and has in the creation of this new order the requirement of responsibility that all of us should have in the creation of more professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u5	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. We are fully aware of this and have a careful and demanding attitude in creating new orders. However, for all the reasons I have just explained, it seems to the Socialist Party that, with a sense of commitment, with a sense of conviction, but also with a sense of responsibility, this Assembly of the Republic has the conditions to create this order of the social workers and the social workers, with the notion that it is creating an instrument that will improve the possibility of making social policies more effective and more capable and thus achieving the objectives for which they are created. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no more entries, so we will move on to point 2 of our agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u8	Mr President, Mr Artur Rêgo was registered to intervene on point 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have urged you to make the inscriptions in your own time. You have the floor, Mr Artur Rego, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u10	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the beginning of this speech, the representatives present here from all over the country, of the association of social workers, at this time so important for the class that they represent and so anxiously awaited. Social policies today know a great engine of realisation, in the field, of their objectives through the third sector. The social economy is based on human beings, on him lives and for him lives. Don't get up, don't develop without people. It said Maria José Nogueira Pinto, in a sentence filled with meaning, that the social sector does not aim for the remuneration of capital, as it legitimately seeks to make the private sector, but rather seeks the fulfilment of a mission and that is why in the private sector capitals are associated, while in the social sector people are associated. And so it is in the more than 5000 private institutions of social solidarity, associations of mercy, mutuality and so many other forms of organization with a common principle, which is the social service. This service is provided by those who, daily, always available, devote their lives to maintaining social responses, who serve elderly people who serve people with disabilities, who serve those who are in poverty, who serve thousands and thousands of families in Portugal. According to available data, about 250 000 jobs are generated by this sector. Many of them are social area technicians who deserve all our recognition. Although social security is historically a professional area where social workers perform their functions under different programmes, the functions performed by these specialists in the field of justice should also be recorded, with clear emphasis on their performance in prisons and social reintegration services, and also on their activities in the field of health, especially in hospitals, primary health care and continuous and integrated care. Work and employment and education are two areas where, in recent years, greater intervention dynamics of social service professionals have been detected. Local authorities and non-profit social organizations also constitute intervention fields of great importance for social workers, embodied in social action, education and health services, municipal housing services, urbanism and human resources, social networks, private institutions of social solidarity and mercy. The multiplicity of areas of action and the diversity of required competences, which have based on a field of action based on situations, often of great social sensitivity, make the professional intervention of social workers a structural element for the guarantee of social cohesion, social justice and human rights. Social professionals deserve to support them in preparing answers to new challenges that arise. And, in this sense, the exchange of good practices of social service, through the constitution of an order of social workers, may come to help. They deserve to continue to raise a quality sector and, in this sense, demanding criteria, in terms of quality, in access to the profession of the social worker, will certainly help. They deserve recognition and, in this sense, the framework that an order will ensure them will certainly be a contribution to the future. If with order they can win social workers, with social workers and their valuable and irreplaceable work wins the country. And it wins the country—and I will end—in the establishment of the support network for families, in the service they provide in combating social exclusion, in building a more solidarity and more cohesion society. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u11	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want, of course, to begin by welcoming the petitioners and by making a point of order in the work, that is to say, it is important to value the role of social workers and those who are their mission and their functions in connection with people, in solving specific problems. We know that social workers are today faced with the dramatic situation of worsening poverty, of a government that cuts into social benefits and, in front of that court, are the social workers who face and respond to the problems created with the right policy. We know that the condition of resources created in the past, which leads to so many problems in Portuguese families, is another of the problems which, of course, is reflected in social workers, because they have no answers to people. We wanted to say that we greatly appreciate the role of social workers, but we also want to say that the CFP maintains a reserve position on the creation of professional orders. The idea that the creation of professional orders solves the problem of professionals, solves problems of a work nature, recognition or improvement of working conditions is, in our view, an illusion. The most recent experiences, of creating many professional orders that were on the table, prove that, despite the creation of professional orders, the problems that led to the creation of these same orders were not solved by their simple creation. And, to this extent, we say that professional orders make sense, yes, in the professions in which reasons of a deontological nature impose it, in which, for example, reasons of secrecy force a self-regulation. This does not clearly result in this discussion of the order of social workers, but we are, of course, available to deepen this discussion. We know that there is an express will on the part of professionals of social workers in the perspective of creating the professional order, so the CFP will not be an obstacle to the creation of this same order, but with the commitment to deepen the discussion with professionals and with everyone, to have a deep debate about the creation of this order. But we make a sincere appeal here to social workers that, if we confirm, the creation of order is not an excuse to stop fighting for better wage conditions, for greater social justice, for better wages and rights. The second appeal we make is that they do not fall into the illusion of those who today can make a speech in the plane of rhetoric, of valorization of social workers, and can even approve here the creation of order, but then maintain all the conditions for the lives of the Portuguese to be a hell and for the working conditions of the social workers not to be those that the professionals deserve. The CFP believes that it is important to create working conditions, with human and material resources, and we believe that the recognition and appreciation of social workers is essentially due to the rights and value of their wages — this is a central aspect that right-wing policy does not resolve and even decides on this matter. Therefore, this is the appeal that we make, with the commitment that we will not be hampered by the creation of the professional order and, of course, we are available for the debate and deepening of the matter in the field of speciality, to effectively create conditions for this deepening and to take a position that is a safeguard, but always, with the prospect of not creating illusions whose expectations are then lost. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A special greeting to all and all professionals present here, particularly to the Association of Social Service Professionals, who have fought for their dignity over the past few years. Dignity for the work they develop, dignity for wages or low wages they take, particularly the younger and younger ones, when working in private institutions of social solidarity, and also for the effort they have always made, in the sense of continuing vocational training, to suit and improve the development of their capacities and their work. This professional group is so much more important at a time when the living and working conditions of the populations get worse and, therefore, are often the first-person social workers, the first voice that helps those and those who do not have wages, who do not have jobs, who do not have the means to feed their children and daughters. So this very special greeting to all of them and to all of them. These professionals have a very important role to play in social security, health, education, social reintegration, local development, prisons and therefore deserve all our attention and solidarity. We know that the Association has developed this claim over the past few years to create the order of social workers. We say here with all the fraternity that the Left Block believes that professional certification should not be made by any professional order, professional certification should depend on the government, who serves the courses, because unfortunately the examples we have of many professional orders are those that put such requirements for access to the profession that often break into more conflict and do not, in fact, help the development of this profession. however, and because this is the desire of professionals and the Association, it will not be the Left Block to create any kind of obstacle to the placing on the ground of the order of social workers. We call attention not to be deceived—never! — or transform — never! — order in a corporate institution, because this was left behind. They always understand order as a cohesion factor, as a dignification factor and not as an internal conflict factor. This is our perspective on professional orders, and I say it with all the frontality, but, on our part, social workers and assistants can count on us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u15	Mr João Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Social Assistants who honor us this afternoon with their presence in this Chamber and in all they greet all social workers in our country. They are professionals with important functions of solidarity and social cohesion and are, of course, at the forefront of the various services of the State, both in the authorities and in the different institutions of the social economy. Today, the Socialist Party also presents us with a bill on the creation of the order of social workers, at the same time as we discuss a petition on the same subject. Speaking in the petition, of course, I also welcome the more than 5000 petitioners or subscribers who, in a democratic citizenship exercise, submit this topic to the discussion and, by submitting it, also provide us with the opportunity to offer worthy words of honor to the mission that these professionals, daily, make the lives of many Portuguese families better and more supported. The discussion on this subject also provides us with the opportunity to point out that it was with the current government, supported by the majority PSD / CDS-PP, which was discussed in this Parliament, first of all, the bill that gave rise to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, which is the framework law of this sector, and Bill No 266 / XII ( 4 ). o ), which establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to the operation of public professional companies, which culminated in Law No 53 / 2015, published this month on 11. This legislation, which is close to completion, was decisive in the organization, harmonization and framework of professional public associations, aiming to modernize the functioning of the various professional orders, given that we want an open society, with valued professions and adapted to new missions and new challenges. It is unequivocal and it is never too much to repeat our respect and appreciation for the work of social workers, as professionals, as citizens dedicated to causes and projects, to work alone or in multidisciplinary teams—I myself, throughout my professional life, had the privilege of working with many of them—which constitute a decisive being in a society we all want more just, human and solidarity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of a professional order is not only of the greatest importance but also of great delicacy. It should be duly weighted and discussed in a very open manner, so it is important to listen to the representatives of the professionals of the sector, as well as entities that contribute to a constructive and fruitful debate on this matter. We therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance that this issue be the subject of evaluation and discussion within the parliamentary committee. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our sincere wish. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u17	The Bureau does not record any more entries, so the debate on point 1 of our agenda is thus concluded. We move on to point 2, which consists of a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recognition of patients with fibromyalgia ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by effectively complying with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ) of petition No 463 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Fernanda Margarida Neves de Sá ( Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia), requesting that the Assembly of the Legislature in the sense of an assessment of patients with fibromyalgia according to their degree of disability, and draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia, the association FIBRO, each and every one of the petitioners, whose petition is today discussed, and also by making a history of what has been the struggle for recognition of patients with fibromyalgia. The World Health Organization, in 1992, began to recognize fibromyalgia as rheumatic disease. It was necessary to wait 11 years in 2003 for the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) in Portugal, through Circular No 27, to recognize fibromyalgia and consider it for the purposes of certification of temporary disability, also regulating diagnostic and treatment intervention by the respective information circular. One year later, the same Directorate-General for Health issued a new regulatory circular, integrated into the National Programme against Rheumatic Diseases. at this time, it was considered that, and I quote, "Fibromyalgia is a rheumatic disease of unknown cause and functional nature, which generates generalized pain in soft tissues (...), but does not affect the joints or bones. This pain is accompanied by quantitative and qualitative changes in sleep, fatigue, headaches, cognitive alterations (...), paraesthesia / dysesthesia, irritability and, in about 1/3 of the cases, depression. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is estimated that fibromyalgia may affect between 2 and 5 % of Portuguese. however, precisely because of the difficulties in its diagnosis, it remains to be recognized, in particular, by health professionals, who are responsible for treating it. I would also like to recall at this stage that this fight has an example in the petition in the previous Parliament, which also had as rapporteur a member of the PSD, in which, in particular, he called for access to disability reform. at that time, the Government recognized the need to review the disability table in order to enable the recovery of the different levels of limitations caused by the disease, as well as the creation of criteria to allow the application of benefits uniformly to patients suffering from fibromyalgia. By 2010, this Parliament had specifically recommended to the Government the development of a table of disability arising from chronic diseases and a functional table, a functional table, which also meets what the World Health Organization recommends for these cases. It was precisely the current government, through Dispatch No 10218 / 2014 that established, on an experimental basis, the National Functional Table. The truth is that there is still much to be done in terms of the recognition of fibromyalgia patients, which is not the disease itself. Not knowing if this petition would have its end, because, I remember, in the middle of the discussion, there was the possibility of altering the object of it, it was still at that time that the PSD publicly assumed that it would move forward with a project. We are very pleased to note that some of the measures we are presenting are already being implemented by the Directorate-General for Health and as for others we hope they will be implemented after approval by this Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u19	To also present the draft resolution of the PSD and CDS-PP, Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate, personally and on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, the Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia and the more than 5,000 subscribers to the petition which was delivered in this Parliament. It is to be praised when so many citizens join in a civic attitude like this, in favour of a cause that they consider to be very fair, such as the recognition of fibromyalgia patients. It is estimated that fibromyalgia reaches about 2% of the Portuguese adult population, with women being the most affected, much more than men. It is a disease that begins to manifest itself, in most cases, already in adulthood; however, there is already a marked growth of cases in children and also among adolescents. It is a very difficult diagnosis disease, made by the exclusion of other diseases. however, it is an incapacitating and very limiting disease for those who suffer from it, both in their professional and private lives. They are limitations that manifest themselves, obviously, in the most basic things of the day, in the performance of daily tasks and also, of course, causes work absenteeism. My Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, through the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 90 / 2010 of 9 July, and following the adoption of a legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Parliament recommended to the Government the development of a table of disabilities resulting from chronic diseases, and a functional table, as recommended by the World Health Organization. And what was done by the former Government in this regard? Nothing! However, this government approved an order from the Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, according to which the National Functional Table was established experimentally, claiming that the National Functional Table "can make a significant contribution in terms of the functionality of an adult in active age with chronic disease, without replacing the National Disability Table". Thus, this Table aims to quantify, periodically and systematically, the functionality of a person with chronic disease, in order to measure the adequacy of social benefits that may be attributed to him or her in a special way. As we all know, and I've already said, it's not easy to make the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. There is still a huge lack of knowledge around this disease, which has, invariably, as a result of its untreated and appropriate treatment by health professionals who often do not have specialized training for this purpose, but also contribute to the maintenance of a certain devaluation, even discrimination, of the disease within our society. It is therefore very important for us to take correct and necessary measures to increase the training and information of doctors about fibromyalgia, to create specific responses in the health systems and social solidarity for these patients and to recognise the specificities of these patients, either by adapting their working hours, or by creating incentives for their employability, or by creating more flexible laws, adapted to the difficulties that fibromyalgia causes in their patients. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fibromyalgia has been recognized since 1992 by the World Health Organization as a rheumatic disease. In Portugal, in the year 2003, the Directorate-General for Health approved a circular where it recognized fibromyalgia as a disease to be considered for the purposes of certification of temporary disability, and also regulated diagnostic and treatment intervention in 2005. in the following year, in 2004, the same Directorate-General for Health issued a regulatory circular, integrated into the National Program against Rheumatic Diseases, considering, and I quote: « Fibromyalgia is a rheumatic disease of unknown cause and functional nature, which causes generalized pain in soft tissues (...) but does not affect joints or bones. This pain is accompanied by quantitative and qualitative changes in sleep, fatigue, headaches, cognitive alterations (e.g. in memory and concentration) (...) irritability and, in about 1 / 3 of the cases, depression. But it is time to give fair recognition to these people, to patients who suffer so much and most of the time in silence. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Both the CDS and the PSD have the greatest respect for these patients, often misunderstood. Therefore, together, we present and advocate: improving the access of patients affected by fibromyalgia to the health care of SNS, especially in the specialties of Reumatology, Psychology and Physiatry, also enabling these patients access to physical exercise adapted to their specific condition; disseminating in the health services of the SNS, in particular in the primary health care network, scientific information on fibromyalgia that enables medical professionals to be better informed about this disease; supporting scientific studies that contribute to better knowledge about the fibromyalgia disease; weighing the approval of legislation to facilitate the working conditions of fibromyalgia patients, including through adaptation, reduction or flexibility of working hours according to the phases of the disease crisis and according to the degree of disability of each patient, and considering, for tax purposes, the expenditure carried out with physical or health activities prescribed to fibromyalgic patients, provided that this clinical need is recognized as such as competent services ; [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u21	... lastly, the evaluation of the functionality of patients with fibromyalgia, in particular for the purposes of quantification of incapacity for work resulting from this disease, through medical boards exclusively created for this purpose and consisting of medical professionals with adequate training, including a psychologist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u22	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With these measures, we believe and hope that fibromyalgia patients can now be evaluated with greater justice and have a higher quality of life in their disease. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u24	I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect regiment times or at least approach that possibility. I now give the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz to present the draft resolution of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, we begin by welcoming, of course, the representative associations of the patients with fibromyalgia present here, as well as all the citizens who have subscribed to this petition, which, and I quote, "requests the evaluation of the patients with fibromyalgia according to their degree of disability". We understand that this is a fair claim, which is why we also present a draft resolution, which recommends, from the outset, the effective recognition and implementation of the regulatory circular published by the Directorate-General for Health, on the assessment of the incapacity of patients with fibromyalgia. But this project goes beyond mere recognition: it contains very concrete proposals that respond to the various problems faced by patients with this disease. in this sense, we propose: that a table of disabilities and health functions be implemented which is sensitive to the incapacity resulting from this chronic disease; that there be an investment, at the level of primary health care, in the awareness and training of health professionals for this disease, but also for other chronic diseases; that free access be ensured to medicines that are essential to improve the quality of life of fibromyalgia patients; that the SNS prescribes the necessary treatments for these patients and, in particular, treatment of hydrotherapy; that the conditions for acquiring technical aid be created, with a view to mitigating the consequences and preventing the worsening of the clinical situation; that it promote the obligation of the employer to adapt the job and the functions to be performed to the specificities of the worker with fibromyalgia; that working hours be appropriate to the specificities of these workers; that it be ensured that such a situation of protection in cases of termination of the job, or of disease, with respect for the criminal offence, is guaranteed, without the need of the criminal offence, without the criminal law. As we have said, we believe that our proposals solve much of the problems of fibromyalgia patients, which are largely also shared by chronic patients. We also believe that the creation of a status of the chronic patient would not only solve the problems that arise here today, but also the problems that all chronic patients face in our country. In fact, it is important that the status of chronic patients be defined, it is important that chronic diseases be defined, so that no patient with this type of disease is discriminated against either at work or in access to the most appropriate treatments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u26	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I begin by welcoming all the petitioners and all the petitioners who have made this important issue, fibromyalgia, today, to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. As we all know, this disease is not known exactly how many people, but there are calculations that point to 2% to 5% of the population. We also know that there are, in fact, men to whom the disease is diagnosed, but it mainly affects women. Women are, in fact, five to nine times more affected by this disease than men and this is an important aspect, Mrs and Mrs. Members, to define the necessary measures to support fibromyalgia patients. But, on the other hand, as we all know, the ignorance of the disease and the absence of a standard of clinical guidance do not allow a knowledge of its actual dimension. Fibromyalgia was included in the international classification of diseases in 1992 by the World Health Organization. in our country, only in 2003 is that the Directorate-General of Health recognized fibromyalgia as a disease for the purpose of certification of temporary disability. Other regulations have been followed, it is true, some of which are well listed by the honourable Members. Members of the majority, but insufficient, otherwise, we would not be here today discussing a petition and a set of draft resolutions on this subject. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be done to guarantee these patients and these patients the best medical care, on the one hand — and this is a fundamental issue — but also to guarantee working rights, particularly with regard to working hours, adapting them to the characteristics and cycles of this disease. It is more than time to respond to requests from patients and their families, because families are also involved. This petition is just another example of the various initiatives and campaigns that have been carried out, particularly by the Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia — which I take advantage of — and which have managed to keep this issue on the agenda, which is very important. in this sense, the Left Block presents this draft resolution and also accompanies the other legislative initiatives presented by various parliamentary groups. The Assembly of the Republic has met all the conditions to give a clear and unequivocal signal to the Government on the need, but also on the urgency of drawing up a standard of clinical guidance in relation to this disease and on the wide range of measures proposed, ranging from tax deductions to expenditure on physical activities, to no less important issues of protection on disability. We hope that these recommendations will make their way and will not be forgotten. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u28	Mrs Sandra Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia, petitioners and all fibromyalgia patients who suffer from the disease, but also with the lack of understanding of the disease. A petition by the Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia on the evaluation of patients is discussed today, according to the degree of disability. Fibromyalgia is, according to DGS, a rheumatic disease of unknown cause and of a functional nature and is, according to the scientific community, a complex disease, since it is the origin of a physical and emotional disability that reaches about 2% of the Portuguese adult population, being women more affected than men. Due to the complexity and great ignorance around the disease, patients face various problems both at the level of diagnosis, which is often delayed and difficult, both at the level of assessment of disability and treatment. We have no doubt that fibromyalgia is incapacitating and generating limitations for its patients in the various domains of life and that the characteristics of the disease cause the people who suffer from it to present limitations in the fulfilment of daily tasks and specificities, in relation to work, which are difficult to guard carefully in the current framework. The petitioners ask that it be possible to grant fibromyalgia patients the possibility of being assessed according to their degree of incapacity, which should be granted within the legal proceedings, as has been to other pathologies already recognised. In view of the urgency of the topic, the seriousness of the situation and in the name of dignity and respect for fibromyalgia patients, the Socialist Party supports this claim of the Association and of the patients, which is perfectly legitimate, considers that effective recognition of the disease is essential and that the resulting incapacity is taken care of through a set of legal mechanisms in the health and working conditions. We accompany and advocate that it is essential that patients be given access to the health care they need in primary health care and that they promote a job adequacy to the specificities of the worker with fibromyalgia. We also support and advocate that the diagnosis, treatment and evaluation of disability can be improved, as well as the dissemination and updating of disease information in the services of the National Health Service and with the medical community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u30	Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that we have concluded a discussion which seems to bring together consensus on the importance of recognition and the transition to concrete actions and solutions to solve the problems of life of patients with fibromyalgia. In fact, we hope that these recommendations and measures will not be in vain. We think there has to be, and there is, or have to be created conditions, from now on, for the government to take steps to start solving problems that affect not only the lives of the patients but also their family members. This is indeed the vote we are voting on: immediate action is being taken to implement these recommendations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u32	Mr Nuno Reis has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just signed up to welcome the civilized form in which this debate took place. We sometimes have in certain matters which should not be politicized or transported to the point of view of party politics — at the worst it may have — the temptation to forget what is fundamental. I would like, frankly, to welcome the way this debate took place, to welcome the respect that patients and petitioners deserve from us and to say that the PSD, as the first proposer in a draft resolution on this matter, will not only vote in favour of its project, but will also approve several measures, not all of which are proposed either by the PCP and the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u34	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1463 and 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of petition No 463 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4. a ), on fibromyalgia, we turn to point 3 of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of lein.o 971 / XII projects ( 4. ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of measures wrongly regarded as job promoters, such as IEC, IEC + and traineeships, in order to meet the permanent needs of public services and enterprises ( CFP ), 972 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the protection of workers ( PCP ) and 1010 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits and regulates the use of employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +( BE ), generally in conjunction with draft resolution No 1548 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to combat precariousness and amends the rules of the employment stages ( BE ). To present the two PCP bills, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, long-term contracts in violation of the law, false green receipts, research scholarships or professional internships, temporary work or employment-inclusion contracts are part of the day-to-day of more than 1, 2 million workers with precarious links. The most serious thing is to be the government itself to promote unemployment and precariousness to be covered by public measures to combat unemployment, which result in more precariousness, unemployment and exploitation. The use of employment and integration contracts does not serve the quality of public services or the life of these workers. These workers are unemployed and may be on duty for up to 12 months, ensuring the functioning of public services and meeting permanent needs. After that period, they cannot continue in this job and are replaced by another unemployed worker. This situation is unacceptable and there is an urgent need to be fought. The internships, courses and vocational trainings mask unemployment statistics, but do not create any prospect of effectively solving the problem of unemployment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the illegal use of precariousness to provide for the permanent needs of public services has been the political option of successive PS, PSD and CDS governments for several years. This option is based on a strategy for devaluation of work, generalization of precariousness and aggravating exploitation. This path is, in fact, inseparable from the policy of dismantling the social functions of the State, based on the degradation of public services, with a view to its closure and privatization. It should be remembered that only since 2010, PS, PSD and CDS have destroyed more than 90 000 jobs in the Public Administration, and if we go back 10 years the number exceeds the 200 000 jobs destroyed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is employment with rights. The rights of workers are a condition of the democratic regime and we will never accept the imposition of working conditions of the 19th century on workers of the 21st century. For this reason, today, the CFP brings solutions to this House that can and should be approved. The PCP presents solutions to correct this unacceptable injustice. The lifting of all situations of recourse to public employment measures for the supply of permanent needs of public services, IPSS and companies; the carrying out of public tenders which supplement the permanent needs which are being filled by the use of this precarious contract; in the case of private entities, detecting permanent needs by use of public employment measures, these placements must be converted into non-term contracts; the reduction of the situations in which it is possible to use the term contract; the reduction of the duration of the contract in the right term for no more than three years, with no more than two renewals; the strengthening of the right of preference of the worker engaged in the term of admission, and may also opt between reintegration and compensation; and the application of economic, tax and contribution sanctions for employers who use the forms of precarious recruitment. This is the contribution of the PCP. This is your commitment to workers and employment with rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u36	To present the bill and the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the latest data, there are 75 403 people in our country who have employment-inclusion contracts, if they are unemployed, or employment-inclusion contracts +, if they are beneficiaries of the CSR, to do socially necessary work. There are 75 403 people who are doing full-time work in exchange for unemployment benefit or RSI, who cannot refuse to lose their social benefits and for whom they do not receive a salary. They are in schools, in museums, in hospitals, in libraries, in meals, in service centers, in municipal chambers. They perform essential permanent functions and do not have wages. They do a work activity that is not recognized and to which no right is associated, i.e. they receive a scholarship, a food and transport allowance, which surrounds the 80 €, and cannot be reintegrated into the service where they are working. In other words, the only reward they will have is unemployment. This situation is so scandalous that the Ombudsman in November 2014 stated that it was « the evidence of the misuse of such measures by public services and bodies which, through them, met permanent needs ». But the Ombudsman further said: « These workers do work without being recognized as workers ». And it was addressed to the Government, Minister Mota Soares, saying the following: « I am sure you will consider the judgment that I make flagrant the wrongful and illegal form such as these measures,» — « abusive and illegal» are the words of the Ombudsman! — 'in particular the employment-inclusion contract measure has been used in the Public Administration, which is urgently needed to end'. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this situation of employment-insertion contracts is an abuse and is a new form of forced labour which has become general in the Public Administration. These people, who work in schools, health centres, municipal chambers, private institutions of social solidarity, perform permanent needs and have the right to have a contract. They cannot be workers without rights and without recognition, and that is what we are discussing today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u38	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of all seats today, we have an opportunity to dignify our mandate, to restore a minimum, a basic minimum of justice. The majority PSD / CDS, whose government has encouraged the generalization of this figure, has an opportunity here to show that it is concerned about these people. And the members of the Socialist Party, which was the party that in 2009 created the employment-inclusion contracts through Ordinance No 128/2009, also have an opportunity here to repair the injustice they have done in relation to these people. To that end, it is enough to stand up at the time of the vote and approve the projects under discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u39	In order to continue the debate, Mrs Catarina Marcelino is now speaking by the PS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about job insecurity is to talk about unemployment, to talk about the discouraged, to talk about emigration, to talk about unemployed, to talk about underemployment. And I could not leave here today, before this House, to take a position, in solidarity with all those who are in a precarious situation, against the lack of truth and undo with which Minister Mota Soares came to the public—I can only understand that he has been with electoral purposes—masking the difficult reality of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese, real people who go through difficulties. The fact is that today unemployment continues to be higher than when external aid is applied for, as the Minister tries to whiteen the reality. The truth is that more than 250 000 Portuguese people have lost their jobs, had to leave their job; they are discouraged and more than 76 % of them were in 2011. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u41	The truth is that about 200 000 Portuguese people have emigrated permanently over the past four years, and the fact is that, by adding 13 % of unemployed people and permanent migrants, we have reached more than 20 % of Portuguese people — 20 % is one in every five people in this situation. And to all this cruel reality, the employment-inclusion contracts, the professional internships, the formations of the IEFP, which involve around 161,000 people, are combined. Today, it is mainly about these active employment measures that the diplomas under discussion take place. The PS is and has always been in favour of active employment measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u42	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u43	... because they fight isolation and allow the continuity of link to the labour market, opening, in many cases, opportunities. But the PS is against the use of these measures, IECs and professional internships, for occupation of jobs, as is increasingly the case. The PS is against the limitation of hiring in the workers' offices to the key area, such as urban hygiene and gardens, requiring the search for solutions that trigger the IEC numbers in the municipal chambers, so that most will then come to shoot these numbers in the face of the opposition as if they had no responsibility in this matter. The PS argues that the Act (Working Conditions Authority) strengthens its capacity to act against false green receipts and precariousness. [[PSD laughter.]] It is urgent, it is desirable and active employment measures need to resume their real role in Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u44	I now give the floor to the CDS-PP for an intervention. Please, Mr. Artur Rego.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By analyzing the proposals of the Left Block and the PCP, regardless of the label and clothing they have, they have a common denominator: the fight against precariousness or what the Left Block and the PCP understand is precarious. An analysis of the intervention now just produced by the Member of the Socialist Party also has a common denominator with other previous interventions. The Socialist Party, today in the opposition, says what it does and what it would do, what it wanted and what happened. however, it was almost 17 years followed by the government and it did not and did not happen! That is an extraordinary position. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Obviously, this Government and this majority are concerned, firstly, with unemployment, that we have managed to reduce from 18 % to 13 %, which is still very high and, secondly, with precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u46	And they had nothing to do with it! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u47	In response to this, rather than « do and we would do and happen if we were there», but never did or never did, rather than classify everything that is not permanent link to the state for the whole life, which is what the leftmost parties do, we take effective measures to combat unemployment and precariousness. I'm just going to say some here and it doesn't take much more to disassemble this demagogic speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u48	Show there the report that your government does not want to give!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u49	Only in the first quarter of 2013, more than 123 000 jobs were created.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u50	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u51	The full-time employed population has since now increased by 170 000 people; in 2014 employment with a permanent and non- precarious employment contract has increased by more than 180 000 jobs and the number of employees with a term contract has increased by 64 000. That is to say, more than 220 000 new jobs have been created, of which two thirds have been permanent employment contracts, without such a label of precariousness that you usually put to the end of contracts. For each job created supported by term contracts, three jobs were created based on permanent working relationships. The underemployment of part-time workers, the number of people who work part-time would like to work full-time decreased significantly and the population who were most opportunities met was that with a higher level and with secondary and post-secondary education, which shows a wager of the economy in qualification and knowledge, which rewards those who strive to have these skills. But more than 114 000 Portuguese were covered by internships in the last two years, and these - and contrary to these initiatives - have been integrated into the labour market by about 70 %, either in the company where they were working, or in another one, at the end of six months. Some are integrated right after the internship, others in the following months.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u52	Show the report there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u53	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u54	And this is attested and confirmed by contributions to social security, because it is recorded that, after the stages, they are employed and making contributions and discounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u55	Tell us where! We've already asked the government and they haven't given us an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u56	But it is also noted that the beneficiaries of the stimuli measures in 2014 were more than 35 000 and that, in the majority of them, they ended up having concluded endless contracts. More specifically, of these 35 000, 52 % concluded unfinished contracts and 48 % concluded a term contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u57	Show us! That just doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u58	This proportion is important, not just for the work done, but for the safety that this job gives. In addition, according to studies, workers with permanent contracts — and we are talking about these around 70 % — receive, on average, 16 % higher wages than employees with long-term contracts. So if this is not to work to increase employment, job opportunities, and to combat precariousness, then tell me what it is to work if it is to make paper in here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u59	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u60	In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that the interesting thing is that the CIS and CIS+ contracts, which respect this initiative and that you both criticize, particularly and massively affect local authorities and local administration, and the 25 chambers in this country that employ most people with CIS and CIS+ contracts are all of the PS and the CFP. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u61	Did you think he'd catch us in this lie? He'll hear us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u62	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the intervention times are almost exhausted, but the PSD has not yet used its time. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the initiatives currently under consideration, presented by the Parliamentary Groups of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left, I wanted to leave two notes that seem very relevant to us. First of all, we all know — and even the opposition can ignore it — that there has been a great deal of concern on the part of both the Government and the Government in combating unemployment. That is why, over these years, several measures have been set up to encourage recruitment. Moreover, unemployment and employment creation data are facts that we cannot question: there has been a fall in unemployment and an increase in net job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u65	Therefore, these are facts that must be pointed out by all as positive, because they concern people and improve people's lives. And these are facts that must not be ignored by the opposition, they must first be recognised, because many Portuguese have been able to find a job. There's a lot to do, it's a fact, but we're definitely on the right track. And that is our orientation, because we want to be part of the solution rather than the problem. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we read these initiatives, we find that, regardless of the signs of improvement in terms of unemployment and net job creation, there has been a strengthening of measures to combat those we call 'green false receipts', Mr President. Members continue to ignore these same measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u67	The gentlemen. Members have forgotten that a law has been passed in this House, which has based on a legislative initiative of citizens, which has deserved a broad consensus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u69	... moreover, unanimity, and which created a new mechanism to strengthen the protection of these workers. Is this or is it not a fight against false green receipts?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u70	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u71	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! But the gentlemen. Members tend to ignore what is done in this House. On the other hand, I would also like to say, in these situations, that the Members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen — and here I am addressing the honourable Members in particular. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party — refer to the proposals put forward that the Government promotes an increase in the difficulty of reconciling personal, family and professional life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u72	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u73	In this regard, I would like to say that I do not think it is serious that this is said at this time, when we are discussing precisely issues in order to increase and make the question of reconciling personal life, family life and working life more effective. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u74	In this connection, I must also tell the Socialist Party, in view of the speech of the honourable Member, that the Socialist Party has decided to step aside from this discussion. It is said to be very concerned, but the fact is that you know that, still yesterday, in the focus of discussion in the specialty, the attitude you took was abstention. Therefore, it is not contributing to a finding of solutions, in order to facilitate the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life, but is becoming part of the problem. Finally, a final note on the employment promotion measures, which are widely referred to herein, the recognised CIS and CIS+, as well as traineeship measures. It is important to say this: these are measures that effectively promote employment—and it is not worth saying otherwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u75	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u76	I shall conclude, Madam President. From the outset, I must say that these measures are an important stimulus for workers. It is not fair how the opposition deals with all those who are willing to benefit and use these measures, which will enable workers to maintain a relationship with work, which is fundamental to their future. And it is not true, contrary to what has been said here by the opposition, that these functions are being performed in vague jobs, so there is no reason to assist you and we do not follow these initiatives. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u77	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP reaffirms that the government not only promotes precariousness as it prevents others from solving the problem of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u80	I would like to respond here to the serious attempt by the Member of the CDS, reading to him the statement by the Municipality of Évora, on the lack of staff and constraints to the recruitment of the Chamber, which reads as follows : « As constraints, it is mainly pointed out those arising from the obligations imposed on the State budget — the reduction of the number of workers, the reduction of wage mass, the prohibition of opening competitive procedures ». Now, look, Mr. Member, if the blame is not on the government that supports it! But it further says the City Council of Évora, that in the case of operational assistants, it is the very ratio defined by the Ministry of Education — recently changed by a door—which is completely inadequate to meet the needs of schools, because, for a range of 21 to 48 students, the government only pays one official.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u81	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u82	Mr. Member, see if the problem here is not your government! Anyone here, in Parliament and in the authorities, fighting for employment with rights and combating precariousness can count on the CFP in this fight, because this is a fight against the democratic regime. That is why we will always continue to fight precariously, for its eradication and for the right employment. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u83	Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u84	Madam President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, no, we are not on the right track. And I do not even want you to agree with me, because it is the Ombudsman who says exactly the opposite of what you have said, referring to the following: « The judgment I make is that the unfair and illegal form such as these measures is flagrant and, in particular, the measure of the employment-inclusion contract has been used in the Public Administration, to which it is urgent to put an end ». That's the answer we needed to give, and that's what most, the PSD, didn't want to do. He wants to keep these jobs forced, he wants to keep people with permanent jobs without pay and without any right, knowing that this is what is happening and that these people cannot — because that is what determines employment-inclusion contracts — then have a job at the place where they were working. It's the job-insertion contract itself that forbids it! But let's talk about other matters. The CDS bench talked about the internships. Well, the government has changed the period of traineeships from 12 to 9 months to prevent trainees from accessing the unemployment allowance. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u85	Change, change for 12 months, to allow trainees to be entitled to unemployment benefit! And it's not worth saying that internships are a trampoline for the job, because they're not. The traineeships are an obstacle to precariousness, to underpaid work and to lower wages. And when we speak here of Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August, which resulted from the initiative of the movements and mobilizations of the precariouss, which have succeeded in taking this positive measure away from this Parliament, what we have found is that today the application of this and other laws encounter obstacles. It is that you have emptied the Working Conditions Authority, which has no means to carry out the inspection actions you would need today. And what is the answer that the right benches give here? The answer is that they are not available for ACT to see the number of inspectors and their means strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u86	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u87	If not true, approve the project of the Left Block, because that is what is being proposed here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be done in the fight against precariousness. You, when it comes to combating precariousness and responding to the problems of precariousness, assume themselves as part of the problem and as not wanting to be part of the solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u88	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 971 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), 972 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1010 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE ), in general and draft resolution No 1548 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE), we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 895 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in public service ( BE), 860 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers by the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code and the repeal of Law No 68 / 2013 of 29 August establishing the duration of the normal working time of workers in public service ( CFP ) and 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens ). To present the diploma of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill of the Left Block has three essential measures. Firstly, to restore the working hours of workers in public service, thus preventing the backwardness which represented the law of 40 hours; secondly, to amend the Labour Code, reducing the maximum working time limit from 40 hours to 35 hours per week and from 8 hours for 7 hours per day; and thirdly, to repeal the articles of the Labour Code on individual and group adaptability, reference period, bank of hours, concentrated time, exceptions to the maximum limits of the normal working period. These are three measures we propose in our bill. And I do so because it is the ILO which tells us that it is widely proven that reducing working hours has a very positive effect on the economy: job creation without reducing workers' remuneration. This proved exactly what happened in Portugal in 1996 when the weekly working time increased from 44 hours to 40 hours and, in the public service, in a phased way, to 35 hours. What happened at the time when these worktime reduction measures were adopted was that the net effect on job creation was 5 % in the first year and 3 % in the second year. It is therefore not the economic rationality and the social problems of the country that concern the government. It will certainly not be the concern about the social drama generated by high levels of unemployment which justifies the refusal to reduce working hours by 35 hours. contrary also to the idea that in Portugal, if you work little, are all studies that indicate that in Portugal, you work more than an hour than the European average, and there are several countries that have a working time far below the European average, such as the cases of Sweden, France, the Netherlands and Italy. So what we understand is that increasing working hours and reducing workers' wages is part of the problem that suffocates the economy. What you did with the increase in working hours was to lower the value of work, transferring that value to capital. So what we want today is nothing less than restoring working hours, as a fundamental circumstance of modernity and not of civilizational retrogression. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u90	Mr David Costa now has the floor to present the PCP bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The nature and option of the Government of the majority PSD / CDS for the worsening exploitation and degradation of living and working conditions in the Public Administration, central, local and regional, are clear and unequivocal and have an expression in the increase to the 40 hours of work of the Public Administration. With the conditions of scientific and technological development of the 21st century, we are not tired of saying, this government imposes civilizational retrocessions on workers, opting for an archetype of low wages, work without rights and time for family life, putting all science and technique at the service of the capital and the interests of accumulation that are underlying it. If we think seriously and exempt, it is not difficult to see that in a society that produces less effort workers do not have to work longer hours. It is obvious that, in concrete terms, working more than five hours a week by receiving the same salary means a huge devaluation of wages and means receiving less by the end of the month. Why? Because it means a direct reduction in the value of working time paid to State workers and also means, and no less important, a disorganization and deregulation of working hours, seriously affecting the personal and family life of these workers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this whole mess of evil in the right-wing government against state workers is still added by inequality, since there are employees at the same workplace who are working hours of 35 hours and others who are faced with hours of 40 hours per week. The PSD Government and the CDS, which imposed this timetable regime creating shocking situations of inequality, is the same as refusing to make a solution of equal replacement possible, which passes unequivocally through the return to 35 hours a week for all public administration workers and their extension to all other workers in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u93	The decision of the Constitutional Court was very clear and considered the possibility, through collective bargaining instruments, of the consecration of 35 hours of work per week. But what did this PSD/CDS government do? instead of recognising democracy, the rule of law and the Constitution, conquered on 25 April, has been seeking to prevent the deposit and publication of collective agreements of a public employer entity (EECA) in general, but in particular the EFTAAs negotiated between the authorities and trade unions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having the local power of constitutional autonomy, which nobody should question, with what legitimacy does this government have the right to intervene or participate in negotiations in this area? The Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development himself acknowledged in the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, that the authorities have an autonomy framework which allows them to negotiate the CEPAs, as well as the possibility of defining the working time in collective bargaining instruments. Once again, we can ask: Why does the government not publish the hundreds and hundreds of EFTAs signed in accordance with the law? In fact, the Government does not publish them to prevent the application of the 35 hours per week referred to in the CEPA, making this impediment political blackmail to exchange rights, violating the law and disrespecting the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u95	The position of the current government is in view of all workers: only with the inclusion of precariousness, such as hourly banks or adaptability schemes, is that the majority PSD/CDS agrees to publish the CEPAs. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the CFP proposes with this bill is to immediately restore the maximum of 35 hours of weekly work for employees of the Public Administration and, progressively, for all workers. For the CFP, the rights earned by the workers are part of the civilizational development. For the CFP, the future of the country goes through the exploitation of work and workers and unequivocally goes through the reduction of working hours as a prospect of job creation, progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u96	To present the Green Bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four years of PSD government / CDS, four years of persecution to whom you work. This government, driven by a blind neoliberalism, promoted the greatest offensive that there is memory of Portuguese workers; cut wages and brutally increased labour income taxes; weakened collective bargaining; fired public sector workers and facilitated dismissal in the private sector; placed the concept of fair cause in the hands of employers and placed the compensation, in the event of dismissal, in amounts to remind real balances — a real invitation to employers to fire workers! This at a time when unemployment knows absolutely unacceptable numbers. With this government, the workers began working on Tuesday in Carnival without any salary increase and began working four more days a year. Even the holidays this government took the Portuguese! As if all this were little, this PSD/CDS government continued in its offensive against whom it works and changed the duration and working time in the Public Administration from 7 to 8 hours a day and from 35 to 40 hours a week. Today, we all realize the lie and falsehood of the foundation that has led the government to put public sector workers to work longer hours a day and a week. On the one hand, the Government called for the harmonization of timetables with the private sector, and on the other, the approach to the other countries of the European Union. But these arguments, besides false, are not based on practice. in fact, while the government sought such harmonisation with the private sector schedules, putting public administration workers to work longer hours without any increase in wages, the data from the Banco de Portugal showed very clearly that this basis of harmonisation did not correspond to the labour reality, and the same is said about the approximation of the other European countries. According to a study by the Government itself, Portugal was already one of the countries of the European Union with one of the longest working days. The average number of working hours per week in our country was 39.1 hours, while the European Union average was not more than 37.4 hours and Germany was 35.6 hours. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has put people to work for free. We are talking about about 128, 4 million hours a year, corresponding to an annual value of approximately EUR 1640 million, most likely to channel to the bank or to guarantee contracts imposed on public undertakings for the profits of large economic and financial groups. It's time to say it's the custom! Moreover, this decision by the Government called into question constitutional rights, from the very moment the necessary reconciliation of professional life with family life, completely ignoring what our Constitution says when it states that the organization of work should be done in socially dignified conditions, in order to enable personal realization and to allow the reconciliation of professional activity with family life. We know that the PSD and the CDS approve these diplomas, but then they recommend that the government promote the reconciliation of personal activity with family life. As the Greens denounced at the time, the government, with this increase in working time, promoted a gruesome injustice and a true and profound social backwardness. With this government and in this matter, we know a backwardness to 19th century laws, particularly in times prior to the Law of 23 March 1891. For all this, the Greens consider that the time has come to begin to return rights and restore some justice in labour relations. We now hope that the parties of the majority will recognize that it is time to replace 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration and to accompany the various legislative initiatives which are under discussion on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Maria José Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reform of the Public Administration has been latent in our society for many years. Subsequent governments tried to implement it, successive governments did not have the political courage to do so. The fact that we live in a very difficult, very unstable economic climate, with an inheritance that we all know and do not want, but we assume, has led this government to have the courage to take non-electionalist measures that are leading to the efficiency and effectiveness of our Public Administration. We urgently need to expedite functions, accelerate motivation goals and accelerate objectives in order to maintain a sustainable state. We could not, nor can we, be children of a static public administration and so little could we ignore the evolution of our society. This government has and has the ability to see, hear, assume responsibilities, carry and fulfill the heritage of the past, but it is, as it has always been, focused on working, seeking the best for the future. We have a government open to debate and ideas in search of a better state. Today, and because we want a better state, which does not burden future generations with new and more responsibilities or commitments and that respects the right to dignity of the people of tomorrow, convergence between the public and private sectors is respected. Safeguarded the specificities and commitments between employers and workers, it is up to the various entities, in accordance with the law in force, to comply with and respect for the law by the present and the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Constitutional Court declared the constitutionality of the 40-hour diploma for public service, stating that it is a positive and necessary measure, confirming the need for convergence between the public sector and the private sector and demonstrating that it brings manifest gains for the provision of public services, for the populations that use them and for the competitiveness of the national economy itself. More: it has shown that state reform is not utopia in the fulfilment of our Constitution, it is a process under construction since the first day of this government, which has worked hard to return dignity to Portugal and Portuguese. It has also shown that this is the way to a better, less heavy, more effective state. There is a reluctance on the part of opposition parties to any proposal by the parties of the majority or the Government. It is a visible fact that we sometimes regret. We must not forget that when the Socialist Party was a government, it drastically changed the Labour Code, encouraged the deregulation of working hours and created new rules. Example: It implemented concentrated hours, placing in the sphere of the employer the determination of working times, implemented the possibility of the extension of the daily working day up to 12 hours and the weekly working day up to 60 hours. Now what do you want? Is it just illusion or is it demagogy? As Francisco Lucas Pires said, «it will be the state to have to humanize itself, not the man who has to state himself». This should be the philosophy of all of us in a process of reforming our state and Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u100	The state to which this has come!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u101	Mr Rui Caetano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing in this Parliament a subject which has been debated over these four years, both in plenary and in committee, both in the budget of the State, and which has always been rejected by the majority of this House. We understand that the opposition parties want to come here to mark their political agenda, plus that we are at the end of the legislature and on the eve of elections, bringing these issues to the debate once again. however, for the sake of coherence, we cannot agree with what is under discussion. Having already gone very directly to the centre of the issue, what the proposing parties want with this amendment and revocation is the reduction of working hours for all workers, both in the public sector and in the private sector, for 35 hours a week.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u104	In the interests of clarity, it should be noted that the legal rules which aim to amend set the maximum working periods, without preventing that in the agreements, either by individual negotiation or by collective bargaining, no others which are further reduced, in accordance with the needs, tasks concerned and their respective functions, may be established. [[PCP protests.]] Nor can we ignore the fact that, in recent years, a legislative effort has been made to ensure that the schemes of private sector workers and the public sector are closer, for greater equality and social justice in the exercise of their functions, with the obviously safeguarding of the specific features of the constitutional status of public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u105	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u106	The main reasons for these changes to working hours in public service were justice, equity and equality, values that are dear to us. Let us not forget that it was necessary to end the inequalities that arise from different working hours schemes for people who worked on the same site and performed the same functions. In this regard, it is important to say that the changes made to the organization of working time deserve a broad social consensus, which must be respected, and we not only respect it as we agree with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u108	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not remember, or do you not want to remember, that these amendments came out of the social consultation? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not remember or do you not want to remember that these amendments result from the most decent consensus of representatives of employers and trade unions, who have managed to find a solution for a better and more effective organization of the time? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not to maximize the importance of social dialogue and dialogue between the parties, then I do not know what it is! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u109	When social dialogue takes effect, it is not the winning parties, it is not the winning parties, but, yes, and much more importantly, it is the whole country that wins and advances. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot conclude without finding that there is a legislative theme where the importance of healthy convergence between workers and employers representative entities is of the greatest relevance this theme is work and, in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic should not be responsible for separating what social dialogue has brought together. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here once again discussing the question of 35 hours of work in the Public Administration and I would like to tell the Left and Green Bloc that the titles of diplomas are not the contents of them. In fact, there are two diplomas whose title has to do with 35 hours of public service work, unlike the heading of the PCP project that says what is the subject of the diploma, but then, within the diploma, both the Greens and the Left Block propose amendments to the General Law on Public Works and the Labour Code. So here we are talking about two different subjects, which have different stories and which actually have different forms of treatment that we consider different. in the General Law on Public Works, as regards the replacement of 35 hours, the Socialist Party agrees with the replacement of 35 hours, it believes that the replacement of 35 hours is urgent. The majority speak of reconciling family life with professional life, attacking us in this matter, as we have seen a little while ago, and actually spent working hours in the Public Administration from 35 hours to 40 hours a week, against reconciling family life with working life. Most people are talking about a speedy state, an effective state, because I have to say that a speedy state and an effective state is done only with motivated workers, only with workers with their rights respected. In addition, 35 hours existed in the Public Administration through negotiation between the State and workers and, unilaterally, the State decided to amend the rules of the game. However, this is not admissible and the Socialist Party has the proposal and commitment with the Portuguese and Portuguese, with the Public Administration, to restore the 35 hours of work, which are just, because, for us, a strong state is a state where workers are motivated. On this subject, it is true that the Constitutional Court said the noma was constitutional, but also said that it could be negotiated in collective bargaining and the Members. Members always forget that part, most of them always forget that part. Then what did the majority and the government in particular do? They took the collective agreements of public employer and put us in the drawer for more than a year! This is what the majority did, not respecting the principle that the Constitutional Court had referred to. This is the truth, this is an unforgettable truth that the public administration workers know and know very well that the shift from 35 to 40 hours a week is an effective wage cut that was made by this government. As for the Labour Code, also mentioned here, the Socialist Party has a very clear position: the Socialist Party does not reject the debate on this subject, but it must be debated in the context of social dialogue, through social dialogue. Question — and this is incredible — how does the State go from 35 to 40 hours when 70% of Portuguese companies do not reach 40 hours of work per week in the private sector? Now, this shows as well as the state "wants to be more papist than the Pope" and acts objectively against the workers, against the Public Administration, not wanting a strong state but wanting a minimal state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[However, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u112	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, let's move on to the next point...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u113	No, no! We have registered Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u114	Were you here for the desk to sign up? It's just the ladies. Secretaries don't have any notes... Well, the Bureau did not record any inscriptions, but, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, I appeal to her well-known synthesis power, because she only has 20 seconds. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the debate, I will make two points, and the first has to do with what has been said by the Member of the CDS, who said that they can freely negotiate agreements. They can't! Public companies have negotiated agreements with workers' representatives and are now closed! They can't! You're locking up the agreements! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Don't win! Don't win! They don't even win! That's how the state doesn't even win or advance! The second question mentioned to us was that the working time has increased to create justice, equity and equality. Mr President, why did you not reduce it from the other side? Is that what you're talking about? Is there only justice, equity and equality at the top? Oh, it is! Is that what you're talking about? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u116	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u117	So, does it mean that this justice is not won, reducing the working time, adapting it to the modernity of today? We're in the 21st century, we live longer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u118	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u119	... and should work less to have quality of life, dignify work and dignify people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u120	Mrs. Members, we shall now turn to point 5 of our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolution No 1550 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring a new control paradigm for the animal population ( The Greens) and the projects of lein.o 1008 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the modernization of official animal collection centres and municipal veterinary services ( PCP ) and 1012 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of compulsive slaughter of animals at collection centres ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative to ensure a new paradigm of control of the animal population. We are presenting this draft resolution in full conviction that systematic, indiscriminate slaughter of healthy animals is not a good principle. The fact is that it is a frequent procedure in many animal collection centres, and the result it has given is not quite effective in controlling the animal population. Now, in view of this reality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens have decided to present this initiative in order to propose effective means of control of and respect for this animal population, in particular through the generalisation of the sterilisation process. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are fully aware of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 69 / 2011, which was approved in this Parliament and published at the end of the past Parliament. There was a legislature and the paradigm, reality, did not change. in this sense, we believe that we should not end this legislation without addressing the matter again and, essentially, to propose action by the Assembly of the Republic in the sense of a very concrete determination, which is exactly what the Greens want. The Greens therefore propose: to study the formation of a network of municipal collection centres with common rules, in order to promote and facilitate the adoption of animals and to promote sterilization as a practice of controlling the population of pets, community or errant animals; to encourage the responsible adoption of animals by, in addition to natural persons, legal persons, schools, associations of residents and businesses; to ensure that authorities are able to hire officials, not only a veterinary doctor, with the proper training and sensitivity to collect and treat animals; to promote greater supervision over the official collection centres of annals — dogs and cats — in order to ensure that these spaces comply with the legislation on hygiene and safety, as well as animal health and welfare, and to ensure compliance with the system of identification and information of ducks and cats for the identification of such animals. We also propose to promote campaigns to raise awareness of the population to care for animals and to create a network of public veterinary hospitals; create conditions for establishing the principle of freeness, sterilization and vaccination practices of pets, including for citizens or families, holders, with greater economic vulnerability; encourage sterilization inserted into RED ( Collecting, Sterilization and Return) as a means of controlling the reproduction of errant animals; and finally establish the principle of non slaughter of animals, with very restricted exceptions, notably allowing the practice of euthanasia in case of irremediable suffering of the animal or for public health reasons, always duly proven by veterinarian. So what the Greens are proposing today is, on the one hand, the strengthening of some principles that this House has already taken and, on the other hand, we will move forward a few more steps in the defence of animals and the dignity of society as a whole. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u122	To present the PCP bill, Mr. Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like, first and foremost, to welcome the Green Green Ecological Party for the scheduling of this issue, also to welcome BE for the presentation of a bill and to present the draft law of the CFP on this matter. essentially, our diploma pursues the same set of objectives. More and more, as we all know, and, indeed, we have been sensitized to this by numerous citizens, there is a concern in the generality of the population around the welfare of animals, around the way animals are treated, particularly when they are under the State, in the case of local authorities, to safeguard the public interest in public health. And, in such cases, concern is even more justified, because if animals are in the custody of a public authority, then we are all responsible for the way they are treated, especially dogs and cats. This concern of the populations is understandable, it is quite genuine and, including, motivates civic and democratic participation and participation, which we also welcome by the wide range of people who participate and who contact political parties to deepen the legislation around animal welfare. There are many good examples of ways in which local power treats and cares for its errant animals caught and pets, and how it deals with the populations in order to safeguard the well-being of these animals. For example, in many of the CDU authorities there are practices that we believe should be valued and, more than that, the conditions for these practices to be extended to other parts of the country should also be created. That is precisely what the CFP here proposes, i.e. that the budgetary and legal conditions be created so that the authorities who want to modernize their official collection centres, who want to provide the populations with a public veterinary service with free sterilization and vaccination of pets and that, at the same time, they are committed to putting an end to slaughtering practices in cans, may have support, so that we do not just stay, as we have in the past, by a recommendation, a resolution to say that we should walk towards the end of slaughter in cans. Don't! More is needed than that. It is necessary to create and ensure the availability of material and human resources to authorities in order to achieve this objective and recommendation. For this reason, the PCP here proposes, in addition to a fund for the modernization of canes and cats, the provision of public veterinary services by the authorities and a trend towards the prohibition of slaughter in the canes not being for strict reasons of public health or animal health, duly proven by the veterinary doctor of municipal services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u124	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin the presentation of this bill by greeting all and all those activists for the rights of animals, who are engaged every day in the fight against carnificina that happens in the slaughter canes and, in particular, those and those who have engaged in an ILC, a citizens' legislative initiative, which also wanted to bring this debate to this Assembly of the Republic and the necessary legislative amendment to end these situations. It was in this experience, in this activism and in that requirement that we were inspired to present the bill that we now bring the debate. And he just wants to go to the root of the problem, which is that we don't currently have to spread through the country, dogs who care about the welfare of animals, before they deal with their slaughter. We know that there are exceptions to this rule, and yet—they are good exceptions—but we know that reality is imposed by all the evils that are still committed against animals. It is with these evils that we want to end, particularly with the most relevant of them, which is the slaughter of animals. We therefore propose, first of all, that we end this reality, that the canis be composed of spaces of animal welfare, open to society, that have an interlinkage with the zoophiles associations, with the friends and friends of animals, and that, by doing so, we can, in an enveloping way, end the reality that leads to the slaughter of pets. On the other hand, we also propose that these canes do, free and disseminated, sterilization of animals, not to propagate, with their procreation, the problem of errant animals. We know that these are steps in the right direction, that alone do not solve the problem and that further demands arise, but we understand that these are essential steps that can be taken, without prejudice to the public record, without any additional costs, with the promotion of animal rights and with the guarantee that society takes a step forward, with the improvement in its conscience. But, as I said, there are still other steps that can be taken, such as the fight against the sale of animals, which we know is often done illegally and therefore must be combated. In fact, often this explains how many animals will stop at canis: procreation is made with this intent of sale, but then, if they are not sold, they begin to represent an expensive value in feeding costs, so they end up being delivered to canis, with the outcome that is known. We also know that inter-municipal canis, due to the volume of animals involved, are more attracted to slaughter and, therefore, the simplification of the canis, in the sense of municipal canis terms of two municipalities at most, will help, necessarily, to which the pressure to slaughter ceases to exist. We know that all these steps are necessary and we contribute to the debate. There was a request from the PSD and CDS-PP majority banks so that the Left Block bill could go down to the committee without a vote, so that, in the specialty debate, we could clear up some edges and see some of these proposals approved. We have an opening for that. In fact, we have already entered into the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic a request in this regard and, in committee, we hope to take this step forward, even before the end of the legislative session, so that dogs do not laugh with slaughter and oppression of the rights of animals, because this is an absolutely necessary step in our society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u126	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that this legislation has been fortunate in terms of strengthening the protection of animals, particularly in the face of the adoption and entry into force of the law criminalizing ill-treatment and abandonment, that it has opened a new page, to unlock a new chapter, insofar as it is more modern, ethical and legally more civilized, fairer and more advanced, which lies, above all, in the intrinsic value of the animal and is not repeated, as before, to the extent that we prefer an obsolete view, based only on the functioning of the animal in relation to its owner and its value of affection, which was, objectively, an element that wide ranges of Portuguese society rejected and which, as it has been acknowledged by the vast array of petitions which have entered the Assembly of the Republic, forced a legislative impetus which, it was assumed by this House and translated into this new legislation which it carried out. However, this discussion does not exempt us from promoting other equally important steps. on the contrary, this legislation is also a corollary of the effort now being made. It is a corollary, in particular, on the subject of changing population control, in particular because we have a paradigm based on slaughter and what we should have, and which has already been adopted in previous resolutions in the Assembly of the Republic, is a more modern, more advanced paradigm, which is not based on slaughter, but rather on sterilization and CED methods ( capture-esterilize-back). And this is not only for those who, like me, reject the slaughter and want a more advanced civilizational formula and more strengthened animal protection, but also for those who do not point to any legal deficit or negative moral judgment and who ultimately only involve an assessment of an economic and financial nature. Even from this point of view, in the long term, the options that can bring us any progress in this area are beneficial not only for safeguarding animals but also for safeguarding public interest, in particular with regard to public health and the economic and financial restraint that must always preside over such circumstances. Therefore, the choice for sterilization is imposed on all of us, so we should necessarily make an effort in this regard. I must say, however, concerning the projects under discussion, which I know are obviously dominated by respect for animals and also by a desire to try to solve the problem, although sometimes they are taken by more voluntary solutions that harm realism and more concrete solutions in this regard. With all honesty, I have difficulty, and the PSD Parliamentary Group too, in agreeing with some of the solutions advocated by the CFP Parliamentary Group in the proposal it submits to us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u128	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u129	I will finish now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PSD Parliamentary Group and I have a great deal of difficulty in agreeing with some of the solutions advocated by the CFP Parliamentary Group in the proposal that it submits to us, in particular when it supports free sterilization, compulsory and free vaccination, in particular because there will be many pet owners and owners who do not need this aid, neither the municipal chambers nor the state,... [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u130	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u131	...so it will make no sense to accept such a position. Therefore, we follow up much of the draft resolution of the Green Party and we will be available to work with all seriousness and humility, in the specialty, in order to try to find solutions to this matter which I believe to be a matter that can generate consensus in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u132	Mr Manuel Mota also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the Greens Ecologist Party for its initiative, which we follow in almost all, and also the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which also presented draft laws on this subject, which we also follow. in this legislation, there was indeed a very significant advance in the relationship between the legal framework of pets and the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals. however, we have to evolve, because there is a very long way to go and, even with regard to the legislation itself that has been approved, its implementation needs a set of measures whose path is present in some of the articles amended by the bills presented here, from the beginning of the strengthening of pedagogical policies, because it is much in school that the sensitivity and the strengthening of the sensitivity of our young people to a new relationship with the animals. The public bodies, municipalities and freguesia boards have walked in this direction, such as the associations of animals, who do extraordinary work from the point of view of the volunteering they practice — we also receive a petition, presented by a zoophyl association of Castelo Branco, which does an extraordinary work, recognized by everyone even as paradigmatic, from the point of view of the follow-up that is made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u135	... and we know that Lisbon, including with an Animal Provider, is a global reference in the policies of valuing the relationship with animals – but then by the survey we made by the various municipalities, we find that we have a very disparate reality in the country. It is therefore important that we be able to meet what are near paradigms that safeguard the issues that arise, from the outset of sterilization, which is one of the ways to a non-discriminatory slaughter—numbers have been presented to us as about 100 000 indiscriminate abatements in the last year, a number that should concern us all, and that of adoption, in which strategies to deepen adoption, of sensitivity to adoption, should be followed. There are also some measures that have to do with the illegal sale of animals and the business that is unfortunately done with very little safeguard. in this field, public entities should deepen a legal framework that safeguards these situations. It is also important that the Assembly of the Republic assumes some responsibilities and does not create false expectations. I agree with Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, when she says that there is a resolution adopted in 2011, that we go all the way and that we have not deepened anything of what has been presented. We are, in fact, at a juncture similar to that, i.e. we are at the end of a legislature and therefore we are subject to this in the next legislature, i.e. we are adopting a resolution in the framework of a government, to which of course another government will happen, which must follow the guidelines presented in the resolution. I believe that the position of the Left Block to declare that its initiative goes down to the committee without a vote will allow us to do a more thorough work, with a few hearings, and that we can still present a legislative amendment supporting the options we stand for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u136	Mr Manuel Isaac has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the draft resolution of The Greens and the draft laws of the Left Block and the PCP that we are discussing today, let me tell you that the way is going: steps have been taken and we have more to take. But the first step we should take was to understand, because there are no statistics in Portugal, how many animals exist. [[PCP and BE protests.]] There isn't! There isn't! There are no statistics on how many dogs and cats exist in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u138	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u139	Then, the chip was required only for dangerous breed dogs, hunting dogs and exposure dogs. I mean, the creators themselves...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u140	But the errant can't have chip!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u141	Mr President, you listen and then you will still have time to use the floor. In view of the example given by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares here, the breeders do not "chip" their dogs and, therefore, they can leave them to give up. If they were « chipped», they were identified and they could be penalized. Therefore, first of all, the path should be to 'tape' all animals, in order to know who they are — we know who they are and who they belong to — because all dogs, in principle, are dangerous. It's true that a house dog is a pet dog, but it's also a guard dog. If you go out into the street and bite a user, that dog never owns it, but if it's "chipped" you own it. If a dog causes an accident, that dog never owns it, but if it is "chipped" it owns it, there is a responsible. So the way starts here. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first year of this Parliament, we asked a question to all the municipal chambers about whom I had and who did not have cans and cats, what conditions and conditions I did not have, and we got the answers. So we know more or less what exists in Portugal, but there is one thing that you can be sure of: the municipal chambers have done and are doing a future job, with the creation of new canes and new kittens. The same thing happens with the intermunicipal canes: as there are smaller cameras that have no capacity, the intermunicipals add these cameras to do this work. I give you the example of my municipal chamber: we will make a new canil and a new cat, for 100 dogs and 50 cats, respectively, with everything new, to meet the standards of animal welfare. We work together with associations such as the Leonardo Network and CRAPAA ( Queen's Caldas Protection Association of Abandoned Animals ), to whom we give up facilities to treat their animals well. Therefore, steps have been taken. But the best guarantee that animals will have in the future. Members, it is the change of paradigm and the change of culture of the Portuguese people, which, yes, comes to the welfare of animals. The Portuguese have changed their way of looking at animals, and that is the best guarantee animals can have in the future that everyone cares about them. I would like to say that we agree in practically everything with the Green Party's proposal and that we are going to discuss, within committee, the proposal of the Left Block, which also seems very sensible to me. There is, however, one thing that I wanted to say to the CFP: when we want to put all this in the State budget, we must have at least one basis of what it will cost. When you want to register this in the State budget without knowing how much you have cost it is not in good sense. That is why we cannot follow the proposal of the CFP, but it is simply because of it. We all have concerns! [[PCP protests.]] I finish by saying that, in these cases, I am sure that everyone wants evolution. The case of sterilization is very important, I have no doubt. These are big costs, but they are costs for which, in the future, a solution has to be found. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u142	For a new intervention, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP began by saying that there are great examples in local work, in the work of the authorities, and that it is necessary to create the mechanisms so that they can be extended, so that others, which may not have at present resources, can also put into practice this set of services and this way of treating animals, both captured animals and pet animals. We understand some of the doubts that arise. The free sterilization and vaccination proposed by the CFP, precisely for public health reasons, do not find support in the PSD and CDS benches. We can discuss this in the specialty, we can think about the question of a fee. The idea that only the rich is that they can have animals, because only the rich are that they can pay the costs of the veterinarians does not seem right to us. And if it is true that not everyone needs free service, it is also true that the PCP does not force everyone to use free services. But, finally, we discussed, a municipal rate is applied to compensate for the expenditure incurred by the Authority, to compensate for the expenditure incurred by the State budget. Mr Manuel Isaac, this represents a line in an article of the PCP diploma. The main question is: modernize canis, yes or no? Investing in dogs and cats, yes or no? To ban the slaughter, yes or no? If we want to do this, we have to budget, we have to have the means. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u144	It's not worth proclaiming just the goal. Either they want to program these means or they don't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u145	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u146	But to reject the CFP proposal by saying that all these works fall into the words of the State budget, it is absolutely, I am sorry, Mr President! And it reveals bad will to discuss the central issue that is being discussed here and that the CFP is proposing, which is to put an end to the treatment that people, increasingly, consider to be inadequate to animals, in particular the widespread use of slaughter. Yes or no? If so, let's try to discuss, in the specialty; if you don't, you'll invoke these scrambled excuses, as you're doing! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u147	Also for a new intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to point out the positive sensitivity expressed by the different parliamentary groups in relation to the legislative initiative presented here by the Greens, underlining one or two ideas. The fact that we are presenting a draft resolution at the end of the legislature does not severely diminish anything. In fact, we even considered that we could not reach the end of the legislature without giving a parliamentary response to the failure to comply with the resolution which was adopted in 2011. We considered this to be important, and the resolution is, of course, not lost to the next government. Another issue is the imperative need for the modernisation of the collection centres, which has also been addressed here by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, which is also part of the Greens draft resolution. But because we have also talked a lot about the principle of freedom, I would like to stress this principle that the Greens also translate into their draft resolution, which is as follows: at least for those in custody with economic vulnerability, we really have to think about it, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u149	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u150	I do conclude, Mr President, by saying that if we do not do so, we do not meet the goal we want to achieve. I would like to draw attention to the possibility that this principle of freeness may be restricted to detainees with economic vulnerability. In short, if we really want to end the logic of slaughter and move on to the logic of sterilization, it is important to have this because there are those who can, but there are those who cannot, because it is very expensive, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! So if we want to generalize the principle, we can't run from this, no matter what we want. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 472 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria de Fátima Marques Carvalho and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to set up teachers under a single-doctor scheme who started their duties in 1978 / 1979 and 1979 / 1980 of a retirement scheme equal to that provided for in Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August 2009. For an intervention, Mrs Isilda Aguincha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subscribers to petition No 472 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, requests the creation for teachers under a single-doctor scheme who started their duties in 1978 / 1979 and 1979 / 1980 of a retirement scheme equal to that provided for in Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August. They request, in a dynamic of civic participation, that the legislation be changed, allowing the retirement of children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle of basic education that began the functions in the school years 1978 / 79 and 1979 / 80, with the same 34 years of service and 57 years of age, without penalties, in equal circumstances with their peers, covered by Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August. I am sure that the children's educators and teachers of 1. the basic education cycle performs its functions on a single-doctoral basis, as referred to by petitioner s, and which do not generally benefit from the reduction of the educational component, we all know that in the statute the possibility of, at 25 and 35 years of service, requiring the total exemption of the educational component for a school year, such as, when they reach 60 years of age, to have, in the following school year, the reduction of five hours per week of their educational burden. We all know the changes that have been made with all the workers in public service, particularly with all the teachers of the various degrees of teaching who have no longer been able to retire to the 36 years of service, without the age penalty, the convergence that the petitioners refer to in the text of our petition. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the effort that has been shared by the Portuguese also applied to the teaching body and, of course, to the children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle that are part of the teaching body. Sensible to the expectations and difficulties of all, we assume that, especially teachers who have not availed themselves of the possible exemptions of the educational component, have expectatives. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the exceptions to Law No 77/2009 have resulted from specific situations which are beyond and which are not prolonged in time. That was it. The PSD Parliamentary Group assumes this: that was the case, exceptions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u153	Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the petitioners on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. This greeting is also personal, when I am addressing my fellow lecturers, since I have completed the Primary Magisterium in 1978. Only those who know the difficult professional journey of children educators and teachers of 1. the cycle is that it understands the insistence and vehemence with which petitioners defend their claim. The question that we are asked is that educators and self-doctors who started their duties in 1978 / 79 and 1979 / 80 fulfil the same requirements as colleagues covered by the exception of Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August, i.e. those who completed the Primary Magisterium in 1975 and 1976, who were able to retire with 34 years of service and 57 years of age, when they can only do so when they are 65 or 66 years old. This, although some of them, at the same date or earlier, have at least the same 34 years of service and age over 57 years. It is well understood the feeling of discomfort and even the indignation of those who see themselves as the target of a regime that, in their perspective, treats them badly and unjustly. Even if this regime responds to a historical episode of the massive return of teachers from the former colonies, what in the spirit of those who feel unjust prevails is the fact that they themselves at the same time meet exactly the same retirement requirements, only changing the year in which they completed the course. We agree that it will not be easy to convince them that this is not perverse! Although, today, and on the basis of this petition, they cannot leave here with the problem solved, they must not give up fighting for what they have for fair and equitable, maintaining the vigor of the claim and the strength of the conviction. It must be said that the various parliamentary groups, in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, have undertaken to examine the matter. It was not therefore possible to find the consensus that could lead to a solution to the satisfaction of the petitioners, contrary to the unanimity recorded at the time of the approval of Law No 77 / 2009. Thus, the effect of approximation to the proposed legislative amendment was not reached, especially because it was not possible to leave the relevant state of doubt, from the point of view of the tendency to be certain that the requested situation is confined to the universe of teachers who started their duties in 1978 / 79 and 1979 / 80, or, in other words, that they are the only ones at this time, and there is no longer anyone who has equal or greater service time and age than those who are contemplated with the exceptional retirement regime. With another maturation, with time to resolve the current doubts, it is justified that the legislator revisits the situation and can, if necessary, restore justice and justice. That is the word of hope which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can and wants to leave to petitioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u155	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Dear Petitioners: I would also like to greet the petitioners on behalf of the CDS bench and thank them for their request. It allows us to revisit a subject, particularly that of Law No 77/2009, which occurred in an unusual climate in this Parliament, which was unanimity, as we know. Law No. 77/2009 was passed in the Assembly of the Republic from a bill that was consensualized among the Members of all parliamentary groups and that is exactly why it was, as I said, adopted unanimously. This Law ensured that, for a very specific and very concrete body of teachers, the exception was maintained and, therefore, that they would not be applied the normative, approved in December 2005 by the Government of the Socialist Party, which unified the special retirement schemes, eliminating in particular the one to which teachers of the Primary Magisterium and Education of Children were subject. The exception introduced under Law No 77/2009 was addressed, very specifically, to those who completed the course in 1975 and 1976 and excluded — I suppose — all those who would follow. I think it is necessary to remember the reason to include in this exception those who completed the Primary Magisterium in 1975 and 1976 : this exception is related to the very concrete historical context that lived in Portugal in those years, namely the return of a very significant number of teachers from the former colonies, who came from the general framework of followers and, consequently, the exceptional change in the placement regime of teachers that occurred in those years. Thus, in those years and due to the compulsory placement of teachers who returned from our old colonies, the start of the career was postponed to some teachers and were thus impaired in counting the years of service for the purpose of special retirement regime. When in 2009 this was verified and it was found that, because of this concrete exception, there were teachers who were asked to retire, this House unanimously approved a diploma to ensure that a situation of inequality could be corrected. Mr Agostinho Santa, of the Socialist Party, said that we could possibly be again faced with a unique situation, only confined to the teachers who are described in this petition and that this situation will not be repeated again. We don't know, there's the question that the honourable Member has left us. If so, and if there are other reasons — Mrs Isilda Aguincha referred to some — to meet your request, I think that no one will oppose this House to visit Law No 77/2009. But we wanted to make it clear, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Questioners, that the exception introduced at the time cannot, nor should it — nor was the will of this Parliament at the time, nor of the Socialist Party — become the rule. It was a confined and very well-defined exception for teachers to whom it would apply and was not at the time concerned about the time of service or the age of these teachers, but only what happened at the time of their entry into the regime, due, as it was said, to the return of teachers of the former colonies, which the Government of the Socialist Party in 2005 never wanted to caution, having so needed Parliament to do so, but with the support of that same party. That being the case, and having no initiative at this time in voting, I would like to say that we will revisit this subject if necessary, when possible, by calling these teachers to Parliament if necessary, to understand exactly the situation we are talking about and how we can look at this situation without creating a new exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u157	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u158	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. We will therefore look at this situation if we find that the criteria are exactly the same as those laid down in Law No 77/2009, so that this Parliament does not create a new injustice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners who bring to this plenary a subject that deserves our consideration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 229 / 2005 introduced a special transitional regime that allowed children and teachers of 1. the primary school cycle of public education in monodocency the retirement at 52 years of age and with 32 years of service, considering, for the calculation of the pension as a complete career, the 32 years of service. This was justified by the historical context of 1975 / 1976 and 1976 / 1977, in which the return of a significant number of teachers from the Lusophone countries was witnessed, which led to an exceptional change in the placement of teachers since they would have to be placed and integrated. however, this circumstance created a situation of inequality in the face of the other teachers who competed in those same years, and who, due to the exceptional placement of other teachers, saw the start of their career postponed, being still penalized in years of service for the purposes of the pension scheme mentioned above. Law No. 77 / 2009, approved unanimously, came to respond to the situation of profound injustice of these teachers, establishing a special and exceptional retirement regime for children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle, under a single-doctoral regime, which had completed the course of the Primary and Child Education Magisterium in 1975 and 1976 and which were not covered by the rules laid down in Decree-Law No 229 / 2005, enabling their retirement at 57 years of age, with 34 years of service, without any kind of penalties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe they are worthy of reflection, and quite relevant, the concerns expressed by the petitioners, especially in the framework of deep attack on the public school carried out by successive governments of the PS, the PSD and CDS-PP, with particular seriousness in the measures imposed by the current PSD/CDS government, in a framework of labour and social devaluation of the teaching profession, intensification of the pace of work in the public school, freezing of wages and careers and increasing the age of reform, paths that the CFP has always rejected and for which it has proposed alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u162	The right to social and labour security for workers, the right to rest for those who have worked their entire lives and the right to pension or reform that enables people to live with dignity are for the unquestionable CFP and we will continue our intervention in this same sense. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u163	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that no parliamentary group has put forward an initiative does not mean less attention to the problem. The law that was passed was passed by all. I believe that there is the will here and the initiative that, when we revisit the law that has been proposed and approved by all, we also do so together, all parliamentary groups. Therefore, our first word for the petitioners is to tell them that we welcome the initiative and encourage them to maintain this petition, which calls for us to return to this special retirement scheme which has been approved unanimously to make the necessary corrections. Let's sign that call. The question is not, in our view, to create a new exception, to extend the exception that has been made. And this, from a methodological, legal and even constitutional point of view, has its difference, as we know. Therefore, there are no new exceptions, there is only the extension of an exception, not only for a reason of equity that has already been fabricated by all here, but because there is discrimination from the point of view of the principle of equality, which is a constitutional value to be protected. There are congeneral situations and, as such, they must have equal treatment. in this measure, we suggest that, sooner than later, the group of parliamentary groups that were able to join together — and well — to approve a special retirement scheme, return to it so that we can make the correction. This is a rectification, an extension of an existing exception, not the creation of a new exception. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u165	Mrs. Members, let us move to the last point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 476 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Suzana Raquel Matias da Silva Batoca and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to take up a set of measures to enable sustainability and promote the dignity of specialized artistic education, and of draft resolutions 1529 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes funding to specialized artistic music and dance schools in conditions to ensure their stability and quality education ( PCP ), 1541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard specialized artistic education through the stability of its financing model and transfers to educational institutions ( PS ) and 1545 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic schools by the State budget, guaranteeing the right to artistic education for all students ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the dynamizers of this petition, its more than 7,000 signatories and also to welcome the fight waged by specialized artistic schools, teachers, students and education officers, which we consider to be decisive in demanding from the Government the payment of late transfers and adequate funding. Delays in transfers over 6 months resulted in late wages, redundancies, non-compliance with financial commitments with the State and financial institutions, educational instability and anxiety of professionals, students and education officers. And not yet fully solved the situation of these schools, here the PSD/CDS-PP government announces another attack on specialized artistic education. The PSD/CDS-PP government has decided, and since the next academic year, to reduce the cost of value/student and to abandon the financing of the supplementary system of specialized artistic education. The average value to be established will be lower than it is now practiced, barely reaching to pay the salaries of the teaching body. This new financing proposal may also create unequal treatment between schools. The end of the financing of supplementary education ( so far shared with 50 %) will create deep constraints in schools, since this participation is the only source of financial autonomy for these schools. The end of the supplementary scheme calls into question the principle of equal opportunities in access to education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to value and defend specialized artistic education and to that end it is essential to ensure the material and human conditions so that these schools fulfill their role in the formation of the individual's integral culture. Currently specialized artistic schools provide a public service of quality artistic training, operating as poles of social, cultural and economic dynamization of the regions. Today, the CFP proposes very concrete things here in the defense of specialized artistic education. It proposes to ensure funding for specialized artistic schools with funds from the State budget, which respond to the permanent needs of the schools. It proposes that the supplementary scheme be financed through the transfer of funds from the State budget, in accordance with the needs identified by schools. These are proposals that value specialized artistic education. Those who want to move from words to practice and effectively defend the specialized artistic education of quality, the rights of their professionals and their students can only vote in favour of this project. [[Applause or PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u167	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the subscribers of this petition for the sustainability and dignity of artistic education. After several months of the delivery of this petition, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group preferred to say that it had lost its current status. Unfortunately, it's exactly the opposite. We have only one word to describe the situation that went through the specialized artistic schools this year: absolutely chaotic. The Ministry of Education was unable to honour its commitments, leaving teachers and long-term employees without maturity, leaving these institutions without the ability to respond to their suppliers. Contrary to what the Ministry of Education told us on 20 April — «the situations relating to late payments are all solved» — and after 17 April the Association of Special and Cooperative Education told us that the payments of the POCH Operational Human Capital Programme) were stopped, in three days the Ministry of Education could have solved the situation, but the truth is that it did not. However, more than two months have passed and the schools have only now received the order for the transfer. This is further proof that the PSD/CDS-PP government continues to miss the truth. This is further evidence of the government's lack of respect for teachers, employees, students and families of these schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u170	The specialized artistic education institutions perform a very relevant public education service in the area of the arts. This mode of teaching allows, through State funding, cultural promotion, equal access of opportunities to all students. These institutions are also about social and economic dynamisation. But the news for next year is dramatic and the intention of a new financing model, at the end of the year, leaves schools, teachers and families very anxious. The financing model is not known, but the Ministry has already targeted to reduce funding by 200 € per student, re-entering 2011 values in articulated education. Supplementary education is no longer funded. This is an attack on all those who, unable to pay for specialized artistic education, cannot attend it. This reads social cohesion. These truths have to be said. at this time, schools cannot provide information to families and education managers, because they do not know what they can count on next year. In February, the PSD and CDS-PP dropped a Socialist Party resolution project with a view to reimbursement and commitment to these schools. I hope that at the end of the year they will put their hands on their conscience and recognize that, after all, the situation is not resolved and that families, employees and teachers require respect and need to know what they can count on next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u171	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that we have already spent our words on recognizing the importance of specialized artistic education, its quality, the true public service it provides, the educational quality and even the interdisciplinary nature it promotes. We have said all this so many and so many times and this is the pure truth, it is a necessity and it is a strategic asset of the country. however, artistic education has been abused, underestimated and, above all, has been the object of absolute political indignity. The Left Block must recriminate and point the finger to the Ministry of Education, not only because it does not answer the questions that parliamentary groups systematically address to it about specialized artistic education, but also because, at this moment, it seems, negotiations take place within an opacity and there is no political filtration, not being taken before Members the positions that the Ministry is clearly taking. I greet the petitioners, the demand movement of artistic education specialized in the struggle they have been fighting. At the same time, what is being watched is torture. On the one hand, it seems to be acknowledged that there are a number of schools which were financed by sources of the POPH which should not be, because they must all be financed by the State budget. This is a guarantee regarding early financing and another type of scrutiny and control, even of public entities, on the financing of specialized artistic education. However, it seems that this inclusion in the exclusive funding by the State budget has a perverse exchange, which is the reduction of public investment in specialized artistic schools, as has already been reported here, reducing funding levels, which calls into question the continuity of the teaching body, reducing the unit cost per student, reducing support or even the possibility of supplementary education being financed. Therefore, there is a set of circumstances that have diminished the ability to operate and the objective continuity of many of these schools and, above all, of what was their tradition, their continuity and how they came to create their promotion in recent years. It is absolutely regrettable that there continues to be a procession of misery, late wages, dismissals, having been affected entire families. All of this seems to want to stay, but we have to make a cut, a break, and at once!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u173	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u174	I think the right should be ashamed and respond to the circumstances we have today. It is not enough to come today to say—and I anticipate: "It will not be so, it is in any other way...". We will see, in the coming days, teachers, students, the most diverse associations, as always, protesting. This should fill them with shame, because the service they are doing not only harms the arts, as it harms teaching, youth and professionals, and this, objectively, is regrettable, deplorable and absolutely repulsive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome the petitioners we have recently had the opportunity to listen to, in which we have reaffirmed what we have always said: specialized education plays an important role in the diversity of national supply. Its contribution to the integral formation of the human being is undeniable. We know today that, as far as reimbursements are concerned, much of what they wanted to see resolved or is already being resolved or in the process of being. But we don't ignore the problems. In fact, we never did. There was an urgent need to find a solution which could provide guarantees of stability with regard to the financing of these institutions. The majority banks presented and approved an initiative that urged the Government to find mechanisms to ensure timely payment of these public service contracts. The financing model that is currently under way for this school year, which comes from the previous government, presents requirements which, due to the bureaucracy required, cause various constraints on the continuation of the work of these schools. For the next school year it won't be like that. For the year these schools are financed by the State budget under conditions similar to those in the Lisbon and Algarve region. [[PSD applause.]] I cannot but emphasise the opportunism of the opposition's presentation of draft resolutions—there is no other word that can describe them. at a time when it is known what is the financing model of the next school year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u177	What is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u178	... the opposition benches propose the same, i.e. that it is because of the State budget and that the supplementary regime is also guaranteed, which is guaranteed by the current government. What opportunism is this that, on the one hand, argues that the provision of education is only in the public sphere and that, in this perspective, it would lead to the extinction of these private institutions, although they all provide invaluable public service? Today, the ideological aspect of the parties on the left is in the drawer. Today, it is not important to know that what they really want to solve is not the financing problem, but to put an end to these institutions and these agreements. Therefore, by welcoming the petitioners for the civic and citizen form in which they addressed this House, we ensure that, for the next academic year, in order to avoid the situations that have occurred, the Government has already stated that it will start financing through the State Budget and that the financing of the supplementary scheme is envisaged and there are guarantees that the benefits will become regular and tranches, as in the Lisbon and Algarve region. In fact, in the area of teaching, things are not solved by writing by metro, with projects collected and presented to each legislative session. We are convinced, most of us, that we actively contribute to the solution, to ensure that the significant number of primary and secondary students attending this type of education in private schools are in the same situation as those attending public schools. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u179	Mr Seufeurt has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS bench, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, thank them for the petition and for the possibility of reviewing this issue. In fact, it is a subject that allows us to depart from an apparent unanimity, which I welcome. Unlike other times when the public service provided by private actors is discussed, in the case of specialized artistic education, there are no allegations from the CFP that these schools have to be nationalized, even if FENPROF says so, and there are no accusations from the Left Block that they have negotiated in order to benefit certain interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u181	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u182	There seems to be a great unanimity, which I greet. Despite being talking about artistic schools, I wanted to make it very clear that, regardless of artistic, professional or regular education, private and cooperative entities deserve all the dignity and equality of circumstances to promote freedom of choice and education, not only to provide but also to attend, which, for the CDS, is basic. For the CDS, each student and each family have their own and specific educational needs and ambitions that must be respected, unlike Mr Luís Fazenda — I understand your opinion — which says that everyone must have a unique model of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u183	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u184	We understand exactly the opposite. That is why we value specialized artistic education in a very particular way. Until Mrs Odete João, the honourable Member did not make the history of the financing of these schools, explaining that it was Minister Isabel Alçada who decided to pass the funding of schools to the POPH in areas of convergence in the North, the Centre and the Alentejo, where 75 % of schools are located. This funding has been made at the 'three panics' and a huge impromptu has been created which only now this government has managed to solve, by passing all of the funding of these schools to the State budget! I'm sorry that the ladies. Members of the opposition, as concerned about this issue, have made statements such as that of Mrs Diana Ferreira, who says that it is important and essential to ensure the financing of the alternate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u185	You criticize and now do the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u186	Mrs Deputy, a statement by the EEAP ( Association of Special and Cooperative Education Establishments) of 15 June 2015, refers exactly as a step forward in negotiations with the Government opening the Government to keep the supplementary funded and — today we are in a position to say — not only in basic education but also in secondary education. Mrs. Members, this for us is fundamental, because it is also in the financing of supplementary education that guarantees the freedom of choice of parents in relation to the various education systems. Mr President, in conclusion, I must say that we maintain what we asked the Government on 25 February 2015, i.e. that payments of public service education contracts to private and cooperative schools, particularly in specialized artistic education, are made in a timely and structured manner. With the transition of this funding to the State budget and the creation of equal conditions for all schools, this will be a reality already in the coming academic year. It will certainly take longer to solve other problems, particularly as has been said in the Commission 15 days ago, an oversized increase of some schools, some students and some students. Therefore, it is important for us to open this network, without undoing the investments on the ground—which is often the proposal of the PCP and the Left Block—but, as it requires the Basic Law of the Educational System, the State must always guarantee the capacity already installed, whether owned by the State or by private and cooperative property, when it extends the teaching network. That is our commitment. There must also be a guarantee that all students, either in vocational education or in artistic education, or in regular education, will find a partner in a school, whether that school is owned by the State or, as in this case, owned by private and cooperative entities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u187	For a second intervention, in the 27 seconds available, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is actually the result of this new financing model that the PSD/CDS Government intends to impose is very simple: the reduction of funding for specialized artistic education, which will result in redundancies, the degradation of the quality of education, inequalities between schools and an attack on the principle of equal opportunities in access to education. Whoever has paid money, who has no right. This is, therefore, a package for the devaluation of specialized artistic education. Mrs. Members, let us then move from words to practice and approve the draft resolution proposed by the CFP here today, in order to finance the supplementary regime through the transfer of the State budget money, according to the needs identified by the schools, and to ensure funding to specialized artistic schools with funds from the State budget that effectively respond to the permanent operating needs of schools. This is a proposal to enhance specialized artistic education, the rights of its professionals and students. That is why they turn from words to practice and adopt this draft resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-25.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow for 10 a.m. on the following agenda: firstly, Bill No 343 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure and approves the Statute of the Victim, transposing Directive 2012 / 29 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Framework Decision 2001 / 220 / JHA of 15 March 2001. Secondly, the proposals of lein.o 329 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Approves the Financial Framework Act and 191 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 79 / 98 of 24 November approving the framework for the autonomous region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). Thirdly, Bill 332 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2006 of 29 August adopting the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations. Application No 432 / XII will then be appreciated ( 4. a ) — Presented by Renata Rodrigues Ribas and others, requesting the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, and the extension of this option to other public hospitals. Fifthly, petition No 432 / XII ( 4. a ) — Presented by Renata Rodrigues Ribas and others, requesting the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, and the extension of this option to other public hospitals; Finally, motion for a resolution No 104 / XII ( 4 ) is scheduled. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the accession of the European Community to the International Convention for Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960, consolidated by the Protocol of 27 June 1997 ( without discussion ). At 12 noon, there will be a scheduled vote. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 39 minutes.]]
