ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u1	Mrs. Members, I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLI Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours.]] [[The Republican National Guard Band, placed in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem.]] [[Then the Coral and Ethnographic Group of the People's House of Serpa, placed in Gallery II, played the song "Grándola, vila morena", which the House finally applauded.]] In representation of the Ecological Party « The Greens », Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice and Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen : If on 25 April it was, in the words of Sophia de Mello Breyner, « As a clean house / as a swept floor/ as an open door», can we admit that we impregnate knots, dirty spots on the democracy that the captains of April and the people conquered for Portugal? Let me ask you this question. With April 25, the words, ideas, active intervention in society, so far oppressed by the fascist regime, gained wings, color and results. Many social rights were then claimed and won, and the people were the builders of this progress. Now, let us see that a few weeks ago, the Greens Parliamentary Group received a complaint, on a question of employment of a public service, from a person who desperately posed his problem to the electors and called for action by the Government for its resolution. It was strangely a complaint where the person did not identify himself, a question justified by himself, for fear of losing his job. For fear of losing your job! It was not the first anonymous complaint to arrive in this regard recently to Parliament. Today, in the Assembly of the Republic we are celebrating on 25 April, the question is: what is happening in this country 41 years after 25 April? A few days ago, too, the Greens were, as usual, at a meeting with the population, where a man claimed that, having wanted, he had not dared to participate in a public clarification action because he feared that they would identify him as a demand voice in his company. Ask yourself: Where did we get 41 years after April 25? And, not long ago, the ENP was in contact with a group of people, where a woman guarantees her absolute solidarity with strikes made, which respond to the attack on the dignity of workers, but that she did not exercise her right to strike because she could lose her job. Ask yourself: Where are they leading us 41 years after April 25? Let us not realize that these realities do not exist. Democracy does not live sustained in fear of intervention. Today, all the bodies of sovereignty and a vast set of entities with high responsibilities are represented here and it must be said that the logic of fear can never take place in this country. That we need to proceed so that the fear of the exercise of the most elementary freedoms does not gain space. And let no one doubt that the precariousness of work, the facilitation of dismissal and the high levels of unemployment are the main causes of the cases I have reported here. Combating the precariousness and logic of easy dismissal is, then, to cry out for the freedom of women and men who work. And freedom is from the highest values in April. in these circumstances, allow the first greeting of The Greens, at this session of 25 April, to be addressed to all women and men who break fears and silence and rise and undertake in the struggle for the dignity of an entire people. They are many women and men who work hard, they are many unemployed who want to work so much and help the country produce, they are also many reformers who have given and give so much to the country, they are still many young people seeking to secure the future. They are all those who, by refusing to tie, use the free expression of discontent regarding the degrading policies of the lives of so many people and claim alternatives of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, breaking the heinous inequality institutionalized by fascism, April 25 was also the creation of the horizon of social justice, where there was no right for some to have anything to have others have everything. At that time, huge steps have been taken to promote social equality, with a fairer redistribution of wealth and with the creation of public services where all were held. However, let us be honest: many policies that have been practiced years later, and those that are currently being practiced, destroy much of what has been achieved and are intensifying social inequalities in an absolutely disconcerting way. The gap between the richest and the poorest is clearly growing. at the time when there was a crisis that served as a justification for cutting everything and something else, the rich were able to become even richer, while the general population became impoverished and significantly increased the number of people at effective risk of poverty. And it has already been announced that they intend to maintain cuts in income and increase taxes for more than one whole legislature, contrary to what they had previously said. But then they find broad margins to quickly lower the IRC and eliminate the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector to large companies that have astronomical profits. Which is said that there is not for one, after all, there is, and much, for others. The truth is that when one ceases to rule for the people and governs for elites and for great economic and financial interests, the horizon of social justice is lost. It is clear what the ENP has been alerting for a long time: it is serving a minority elite and, for it to be comfortable and successively served, it is intended to habitualize the people to a certain level of impoverishment, to a low value of income and to have a short ambition for social progress. This is unacceptable and, in these circumstances, it is imperative to state that social justice is of the most important values of April. It is also a key part of a sustainable development process. One question is asked here: Is it fair to ask for consensus around these denial policies of a just society? Is it correct to ask for agreements to serve elites and sacrifice the people? Is it acceptable to ask for understandings to guarantee a subservience to the European Union and to idolize the budget treaty which is a massacre for Portugal? No, it is not fair, nor correct, nor tolerable to the Portuguese people. What The Greens feel it is necessary to say here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on the day when the Revolution of the Claws is signed, are two very relevant issues, which on 25 April taught us forever: First, there are no inevitability in politics, because there are always alternative solutions and policies. Second, that an unassigned people are a people with strength to lift the change. But it is also important to say that the alternative cannot be done just at a different rate, or take a cut here to put a cut there. The alternative is to be realistic and make different: to assume that this debt is unsustainable and boost its renegotiation; to realize that it is not obsessed by the deficit does not mean to uncontroll public accounts; productive investment has a return on these very significant public accounts; the dynamization of productive activity is the way to generate wealth in the country and to secure the market for businesses and, therefore, to generate jobs, combating unemployment already structurally marked on both digits; returning income to citizens is to leverage the economy; natural heritage, translated into a sea and spaces of biological and landscape diversity, is an immense potential to generate numerous services and the development of sustainable activities; ending the immoral tax benefits to high finance is an imperative; as this process of privatization is an imperative; there are sectors that, of such structural and guarantee of sovereignty, should not stay out of the public sphere. The alternative for this country is to collect the April values. Let us draw inspiration from those young captains of April, whom, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to send a very strong greeting from here, which they dare say is enough for the fascist dictatorship. And there are times in history, when society is deeply hurt, with different contours, it is true, where it is also necessary for the people to say enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the alternative for Portugal is to grasp the values of April to, with hope, build a society with place for all. in the words of Ary dos Santos, « What is needed is to have confidence/ if we do May our launch/ this will my friends go. Do not keep on seeking. ” Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u3	In representation of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u4	Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Ladies and gentlemen : in the early morning of April 25, 1974, when the captains went out to the streets for freedom, I was not yet born. So many of us and so many of us are children of the Revolution. For us, freedom has always been as natural as breathing, and the only regime we know is democracy. And because it is so natural, we value this conquest more and those who did it. This redeeming avalanche showed the strength of a people, who, in a military coup, made a revolution. He showed how the future became present and drank of a drink of freedom. Freedom of expression, right to manifestation or association were at a peak forged on the streets, long before they became laws. Today, we celebrate this fundamental moment and the 40 years of the Constituent Assembly that is umbilically linked to it. This constituent process was exemplary: so vivid, controversial, radical in its debate and in its headquarters of participation, that it was an hymn to democracy. These strong moments and such remarkable processes cannot be transformed into salamaleques, they do not wear out in the protocols, in the pompous marches, nor do they deal with those who are ashamed of the nails. They are not cantoned in history because they are part of the country's life and identity. And the men and women who stared at them won a brutal and bloody dictatorship, who persecuted those who had opinions, tortured those who dreamed of freedom, made the homosexuals banned, and women kept them in a patriarchal conservative, condemning young people to colonial war or desertion. They were free of spirit, they gave body to resistance, and they ripped away the freedom: they are the heroes who opened the door to this liberating morning. The public school, the National Health Service, social protection, labour rights and citizen participation had the genetic mark of equality, justice and solidarity sown in April. Modernity began in the country. Then the opening up of Europe and the announcement of a land more full before the fall of the walls came. But we see today as between dreams and the hardness of reality we still have. from the fall of the Berlin Wall, to the new internal walls created, to the cadafly of the Mediterranean. And those men, women and children who run away from war, hunger and violence, who are later victims of human piracy, scold against Europe fort who, rather than mobilize to welcome them, mobilize to return them. Where is the European conscience, the defence of human rights, or even the assumption of the responsibilities that Europe has in the armed conflicts that drive these people out of their land? It doesn't exist. There's a directory and a troika. As there are so many dreams, so many values, so many promises yet to be fulfilled! Forty-one years after the April Revolution, 40 years after the elections to the Constituent Assembly, democracy is no longer a child, but it is not yet fully and fully assumed. The narrative of inevitability makes democracy gray. Austerity is presented as alpha and omega, principle and end of all choices. And it is the voice of the President of the Republic himself that comes more insistently. When attempting to impose consensus on austerity at the outset in the electoral programmes, both a protected democracy. in blackmail for an absolute majority, whatever the popular verdict, or a conditional democracy. We see, therefore, a thought that of so unique that it is the eucalyptus that everything dries away from the citizens because it tells them that their vote does not count at all, does not make any difference. It is the caricature of a democracy because it really does not decide, instrumentalized to legitimize what, regardless of the popular decision, is already agreed before. Zeca Afonso said that «the people are the most ordered». And we won't accept it in any other way. There is no other owner of democracy beyond the people. And even if they say that it is not possible, that everything is decided, that there is a treaty to which everything is worthy, which is budgetary and not ornamental, we will say that the people are the most ordered and that democracy was not born to be a penalty. in this formal democratic monotony, they want to do normal austerity. young people promise internships, that unemployment is guaranteed. Says Capicua : « We have everything that is studied... / Job zero. The salary, they say, is a privilege, not a right, because the rights, these, are above our possibilities. And he continues to rapper: « The salary doesn't go up, / It's precarious but listen, / There's nothing but rotten and don't get out of the parents' house, / You won't go away, / One day it will improve but it's not today». It was extraordinary the cuts, it became extraordinary to have a salary, that cuts, these, are normal, are already right. They were temporary, but they remain permanent. It was necessary to tighten the belt and the pensions were frozen. It was also extraordinary, but the normalization of austerity is glacial and pensions do not freeze. And they say it has to be, because it needs to be cut even more. Or increase the retirement age, until the pension or pension are a state and not a remuneration. « Are you reformed? Yeah, but I'm still working! It seems that they want to condemn my generation in the future. This, of course, for those who still have jobs, because the others who get up, that this does not give to everyone! The increase in poverty shows well who is suffering: Portugal was the country where the risk of poverty increased the most, with children being most affected. at the same time they increased fortunes. But they want to make believe that it is vulgar this inequality, that it is not even a problem that the rich get richer, while the poor get poorer. That this destruction of everything that is public, these privatizations in catapult, so that the accumulation of a few is the rule. in health, she despairs of urgency and says the government is doing well, that it is normal. There are the monkeys in the corridors, the images in the televisions, and the government says that it is natural, that it only proves the quality of the service. This strange quality, which, in order not to die without drugs, is required to expose life and disease in newspapers. They want austerity to be the new normality, the building where rights are deconstructed, where public services are decomposed and where the future is passed. Four years of destruction are not enough for them, they want even more! But we do not accept that condemnation. The normality of austerity is the claim of the perenniality of the troika, the condemnation of the Constitution the minor text and the elevation of the budgetary treaty to be written on the rocks. The people who ended their bitter fate on 25 April are the same as those who will not be ashamed of the constant sacrifices of austerity and are not conditional on any inevitability. Eduardo Galeano said that « there is another world in this belly, waiting. Which is a different world. Different and difficult delivery. It's not easy to be born. But definitely hit the world we're in. Do not keep on seeking. ” It was this hope that gave birth to April. Long live Democracy! Long live the People who are the sovereign of democracy! [[Congratulations from BE and from the Members of the PCP Miguel Tiago and The Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u5	In representation of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u6	Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these commemorations of 41. the anniversary of 25 April 1974, this founding and decisive act of Portuguese democracy, begin by greeting the April military and all the Democrats and anti-fascists who fought to overthrow the fascist regime and return dignity and freedom to the Portuguese people. On 25 April it happened because many believed that it was possible to defeat and overthrow fascism, ending the repression exercised against the workers and the people. On 25 April it happened because many believed it was possible to end the hunger and misery that sat at the table of most of the Portuguese homes. On 25 April it happened because many believed it was possible to put an end to the Colonial War and release Portugal from the foreign imperialist domain. On 25 April it happened because many believed it was possible to liquidate the power of monopolies and large agrarians. On 25 April it was the response that the military of the Armed Forces Movement, the people, democrats and anti-fascists gave to the inevitability of that time. It is also necessary today and it is possible to break with the inevitability that they want to impose upon us. The April Revolution was a magnificent historical realization of the Portuguese people, made possible by the alliance between the People and the Armed Forces. It was this original alliance that enabled the Revolution and the realization of the profound political, economic, social and cultural transformations that radically altered the situation of the country and the lives of the Portuguese. Fear, repression and persecution were replaced by freedom and joy of living and sharing. The fascist regime has given rise to the democratic regime. the domain of foreign imperialism answered the people with the affirmation of national sovereignty and independence. The economic and social transformations operated were not the result of one day, nor of one event; they were forged within a dynamic process in which the involvement and participation of workers and the people were crucial. It was from this process that the profound democratic transformations arose, consecrated themselves rights, promoted social and national emancipation, carried out agrarian reform, carried out the nationalizations of companies and strategic sectors, including the bank, putting them at the service of the country's progress and development. It was this process and not anyone else who opened the doors of the relationship with Europe and the world to Portugal. It was in this process that the workers took the destiny in their own hands, building a more just and supportive country. No conquest of April was offered to the people; all were conquered by the struggle. The transformations undertaken during the revolutionary process led to the lifting of the living conditions of the people and removed the country from misery. Transformations and progress which, by the action of successive governments committed to the great national and foreign capital, have been seriously attacked and destroyed, especially in recent years with the policy of the CFPs and the aggression pact. A policy of two pesos and two measures, which requires unbearable sacrifices for workers and the people to deepen the privileges of the large economic groups. Salaries and pensions are cut to continue paying interest on an unsustainable debt. Public services are closed and the social functions of the State are degraded in health, education and social security, but charges with public-private partnerships continue to increase. Workers are taxed so that large businesses and economic groups are even more tax-promoting. The people are impoverished, while the great capital sees its profits grow. It is this policy that right-wing policy enforcers want to perpetuate, using the mechanisms of so-called 'economic governance' and the budgetary treaty to bind Portugal to the policy of the troika. Fighting small differences of pace and intensity among themselves, the internal troika of right-wing policy enforcers confirmed in recent days that they have nothing to offer the Portuguese anything other than the continuation of the same policy of exploitation, impoverishment and national decline that deprives the Portuguese people of the right to sovereignly decide their collective future. The solution to serious national problems is not a continuation of right-wing policy. It is in the affirmation of the April conquests enshrined in the Constitution that the country will find the answers to face the present and future problems. Affirming the April values is the answer to the economic recession, to the destruction of national production, to unsustainable debt, to unemployment and to poverty. Affirming the April values is guaranteeing the right to work and social protection for the unemployed, it is guaranteeing the right to quality education for young people. Affirming the April values is ensuring that all Portuguese, regardless of their economic condition, have the right to the protection of health and the provision of quality health care, it is guaranteeing all children the protection they have right to, it is guaranteeing conditions for the exercise of the rights of paternity and maternity. It is with the affirmation of the April values that we defend the future of Portugal! Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. Members: this year in which 40 is celebrated. the anniversary of the elections for the Constituent Assembly, the first free and universal elections of our history, we greet the Constituent Members who, knowing how to interpret and follow the course of the revolutionary process and the struggles of the workers and the people, gave shape to the one who would become the pillar of free, democratic, progress and independent Portugal — the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976. This Constitution had since the first hour declared enemies who, in successive revisions, amputated it and impoverished it, limiting its reach and progressive content. This process also adds to the unconstitutional practices carried out over four decades by successive governments, with particular incidence in recent years. The great economic and financial interests and their political representatives have never accepted the liberating and emancipating project contained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Those who want to impose the social and civilizational retrogression find in the Constitution, in what it enshrines and guarantees, a serious obstacle to the realization of such intentions, attempting by all means their subversion. Aware that the Constitution does not defend itself, that workers and the people must defend it by exercising their rights, all their enemies say that they will find in the PCP and in many other Democrats and patriots a firm resistance to new attempts to overthrow the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. Members : Ensuring national independence and fundamental rights and freedoms, promoting the well-being and quality of life of the people and the real equality between the Portuguese are fundamental tasks of the State which the sovereign bodies have the irrevocable duty to fulfil. We celebrate 41. the anniversary of the April Revolution aware of the difficulties the country is experiencing, but imbued with great confidence and hope that, in the near future, our country will resume the project of building a better, fairer and more fraternal society, a society that recovers the values of April and projects them in the future. We celebrate the most modern and advanced act and process of our contemporary era, projecting them in the future, with the certainty that their achievements and values remain present in the heart, in dreams, in the desires and in the struggle of the Portuguese people. With the certainty that April is the future of Portugal. Yes, let April live and its values! [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u7	In representation of the Social Democratic and Popular Party Centre, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u8	Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Excellencies: We recall at this Commemorative Session on 25 April and remember it twice: we celebrated 41 years of the fall of the New State regime and we celebrated 40 years of the first free elections. Two necessary moments — but not enough — for Portugal today to be among the Western democracies. Our first words therefore go to all those who have gathered to make these two moments possible: the fall of the old regime and the holding of the 1975 elections. to the military and civilians who, in position of leadership or on the ground, worked so that Portugal could transform, within a year, this National Assembly Hall into Constituent Assembly to all of them send our most lively greetings. But the freedom of the Portuguese was still at risk after these first elections. We could, however, have fallen into a new authoritarianism in those years. In fact, the elections served as an alarm for some, showing that the people, the sovereign, did not want (as they would never want) to give power to those on the street who claimed to be their unique representatives and that in the provisional governments they held a growing weight. The people were always much wiser than some vanguards they wanted to interpret. And when the elections threatened the path of those who found themselves in possession of special legitimacy, the country was dragged to a summer called, and well-called, « hot», which for a few months even made it fear that after 25 April 1974 and after 1975 we could never see the free elections, an open economy and the defence of the most elementary freedoms. It is recalled, because sometimes the memory fails, that it was in the deprivation of these freedoms that lived to date a large part of the Europeans — from the iron curtain to there — and that this was the way that, against the will of the people, some wanted to go to Portugal. Today's fair tribute to those who did on 25 April should therefore remind all those who, at various times — and we stand out here on 25 November 1975 — have mobilized themselves to never turn the revolution into destruction. Allow me, as Portuguese, to highlight General Pires Veloso, who left us in the past year and that so good memory leaves. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, on 25 April the political parties saw the light of day or of legality. We signed the 40th. the anniversary of the CDS, remembering these early days of its foundation, these lived with a huge emotion, but also under particular risk. Many were the episodes in which violence crossed the path of the Party, the Social Democratic Center. Many times they had militants and leaders who feared for their physical integrity and even their lives. We have marked some of these episodes in the framework of the celebrations of our anniversary, with a natural highlight for the Congress of the Crystal Palace, surrounded by the extreme left with life threat to the present, and with the same emphasis for the first Centrist Youth Council, in the Teatro S. Luís, which ended with violence, injuries and the plunder and fire of the very young CDS headquarters. All those who at that time fought for the right to exercise politics in the non-socialist field — Christian, liberal and conservative Democrats — are also today in our thoughts and hearts. And at all times when we evoked the time of the foundation of our party, but also the time of the foundation of our democracy, for it worked for both ends with equal brightness, at all times the witnesses of the time highlighted a man who would become a great reference for all generations of the CDS. A man who was under all this turmoil, under the threats and violence, was always calm and confident, contaminating with memorable and therefore reported to us those around him. For us centrists, the 40 years of the first democratic elections are also the time to remember the Engineer Adelino Amaro da Costa,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ...a larger figure of all who sat on our bench. All the presidents who served the institution over 40 years, all the militants who committed themselves and for him sacrificed themselves, all the voters who voted in us today are — this is a common feature — the heritage of democracy and have the watermark of democratic alternance in Portugal. The existence of a democratic party on the right of the arc of governance prevented freedom of choice in Portugal from becoming hostage to a constitutional arc very ideologically marked at that time and at that time. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, I look at this time through the eyes of third parties. Having not yet been born at the time, I give democracy as acquired and the freedom it brings as common and normal. Born in freedom I do not conceive of what it is to live in a regime in which opinion is criminally persecuted or in which vote is not free. I know it was, but it seems as absurd and as distant as the Berlin Wall. But I am not, nor could I ever, be ashamed to have been born after 25 April and therefore also to have a conception of what are the values I must be fighting for in my country. And, certainly not seeking to speak on behalf of a generation, I feel that there are many people in my generation who dispense a certain paternalism in relation to April 25. This paternalism which quickly summarizes itself in a phrase similar to anything like 'it was not for this which we did on 25 April' assumes something that a revolution, to be truly revolution, cannot have: a true revolution has no owners. A revolution has parents, of course, executives, operational ones who, at the right time, did the right thing. But when the people take care and vote — and do so for the first time today 40 years ago — it is the people who are the owners of change. Forever. And if, in the last four years, we have heard very usual voices claiming the « purity of April », « the values of April » or even pointed a finger to those who, they said, « brought» April, then it is legitimate to ask them not « where were you on 25 April », but « where were you when Portugal was led to bankruptcy ». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Because, Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, there is no doubt that the four years that have passed have been difficult. We went through a period of harassment to a nation as old as Portugal, a period under foreign protection of public accounts. But to ignore that this period happened because of the horrendous state in which in 2011 these same public accounts were found, is to count only part of History. But it is true that today, with a head raised and for the first time since 2011, we celebrate April 25 with our sovereignty restored. Many doubted, many acne with a thousand and an obstacle or delay so that this would not happen. But it happened. And Portugal is different today. We can look more at the future than at the past. And all those who have made sacrifices do not deserve to be wasted. They deserve a chance for a better future. And for those who have not lived the times of the Revolution and, like me, thank the legacy of Democracy, there is an inheritance that, I cannot but say, I would gladly dispense: the inheritance of the public debt, pushed with the belly, because successive governments refrained from ruling with what they had and made matters of ruling with the money of the next generation. This debt (for a long time known and hidden) came in gallopant growing and limiting—and much! — the freedom of my generation and of the following. And when he heard those who hired him complain about the troika they brought, and complain against the austeritys they created, he would like to say: « It should not have been for that which was done on 25 April». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, the regime out of the revolutionary process of 1974 and 1975 is established and integrates today the free nations concert. Let's celebrate this today. But let us not forget that, in these 41 years, we have been in bankruptcy three times; that we have had decades as the first of this century without visible growth; that we have continuously diverted the state and therefore future generations, to pay for the little growth that has happened and that we have claimed everything and something more from that state without, in time, achieving a sustainable and consistent dimension with the country's economy; that we now begin to have the hope of being able to reduce and remove an excessive and very heavy tax burden, largely dedicated to paying the inherited debt and financing constitutional decisions, increasingly severe with the reduction of expenditure than with the increase of revenue. The Constitution which came out of this Chamber in 1976 (we now count 39 years) certainly had many virtues. Of course, in everything that was broken with 1933 in the field of rights, freedoms and guarantees. Of course it was a Constitution made to the image of the time when it was born and of the circumstances that then lived and in this sense needed and still needed important adjustments, especially in 1982 and 1989, to overcome its most radical ideological points. And I do not judge revolutionary impulses and circumstances, even though I have to recognize much wisdom and discretion in the words given in the CDS declaration of vote when rejecting the original text. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a right that the Constitution has not been able to guarantee in its necessary scope, that it is the right of a generation to democratically take the country's nets without having to be limited — I would even say prevented — from spending, debts and projects of the past and thus also prevented from being entirely a donor of its destiny. This generation exists, it is my generation, it is the generation that lives in the skin the life that exists beyond the deficit and beyond the Budget. The life of paying back what was spent on our own. The life of those who were called to pay, and paid, in unemployment and taxes, an excessive deficit and an uncontrolled debt. For my generation, more debt is less freedom; more deficit is less opportunity. And so we freely demand the right to make our choices in a normal and European country. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, it is always easier to point defects than virtues, but it is our democracy, with all the defects that may have — others have pointed out other defects this morning — which gives us tools not to repeat the mistakes of the past and limit the action of governments so that we will never have to face bankruptcy again and the difficult way out of it. We know how to do this work and this debate so that, regardless of what is in each of us' mind when we think "Why did it happen on April 25th? We can leave a country better to our children than the one we found. I'm sure that's also what the Captains of April wanted. Long live Portugal, always! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u9	In representation of the Socialist Party, Mr Miranda Calha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u10	Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Constituent Members, ladies and gentlemen. Members, distinguished representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, High Civil and Military Authorities, Distinguished and Distinguished Guests, My Ladies and Gentlemen : on the day on which 40 years of the first free elections are held after 25 April 1974, it is my duty to especially greet the Portuguese Armed Forces. The military, who made April and who wanted and knew how to return to the people a sovereignty postponed by the dictatorship. The military, who knew how to embody the necessary change and who was used to build the longest period of democracy in our history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the MFA programme for the establishment of democracy in Portugal included the holding of free elections for a Constituent Assembly. I would therefore like to greet all those, some present, who were the faces of freedom on that day, 25 April 1975 : the elected Members for the first free assembly in Portugal. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I also welcome the political forces that have competed for this suffrage and all those who have made it possible to carry out the material conduct of these elections. Forgive me for reminding me of my own testimony with emotion. Elected on that day, in the district of Portalegre, I had the honour to receive the highest electoral percentage that the PS, the winner of the elections, obtained in all electoral circles. I say this, perhaps immodestly but without any arrogance, to remember that at that time I was only 27 years old and my participation in this act was certainly worth nothing more than that of all the others I remember with great longing at this moment. [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Special responsibility in the political conduct of their parties had the striking figures, which tribute here, by Mário Soares, Francisco Sá Carneiro, Álvaro Cunhal and Freitas do Amaral. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I want to highlight throughout the process the high civic sense with which Professor Henrique de Barros conducted the work of the Constituent. His name will forever be linked to the history of parliamentaryism, democracy and the Republic. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the PS, the PCP and the BE.]] in the way of the Constitution, it was necessary to overcome antidemocratic seductions. It was necessary to affirm without fear the primacy of the right and free choice of the people, a primacy, more than rhetoric, that could finally be experienced in freedom. That's what you did. It was a victory for representative democracy and the value of the political mandate in this House that we are proud to exercise. And this honour does not release women and men who, by their political action, have given body and future to our democracy and to our Parliament through the new Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With further improvements, the work of the Constitution has given us the essence of the democratic and pluralist regime, which has allowed the alternation of governments and policies, also legitimizing our presence in the most credible international organizations and enabling our dynamic participation in Europe, in the transatlantic relationship and in cooperation with the Lusophony process. I remember well at these founding moments of our freedom, the mobilization of people, their volunteerism, their headquarters to participate. What I saw, above noise and doubts, was Portuguese wanting to decide their collective future. To quote an old medieval political adage, «what everyone touches for all must be decided». [[P.S.'s applause.]] These 40-year-old Portuguese are also us today. The only owners of Portugal and to whom the duty and honor to surrender our children and grandchildren are better than we received from our parents. As Martin Luther King once said, “It’s always time not to let the silence of the good be suffocated by the shriek of the wicked.” Because the primacy of politics, at a time when populist extremism threatens Europe and when the economic crisis leads to disappointments without a relapse, it is increasingly necessary. The primacy of politics as the primacy of choice and decision. But a clear and informed choice, of choosing a strategy and sound ideas for the future and not a choice between short and contentless tactics. It is the democratic substance of the Constitution that will soon be confirmed in two important elections: legislative and presidential. For many there is a anxiety about the present time and even for others a perplexity about future solutions. It is good that both can be the subject of appropriate debate throughout this year and that the candidatures and candidates appear before the country with the clarity of the objectives that the situation requires. What the Constituent has also taught us is that a clear and committed Parliament can respond to great challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We look at the four decades since this founding electoral act and we see the construction of a regime that called for a modern and solidarity country, where rights were a reality for all and not a privilege for some; where political freedom and a demanding regime of rights, freedoms and guarantees were not a gift of power, but true natural rights for citizens; where access to education, health and other social rights did not depend on income or favours; where the European space was not a forbidden mirage, but a natural area of integration; where a work life could be rewarded not with charity, but with justice; where the economy was not infected with some, but was an area of initiative, creativity and development. But we also see, four decades past these first free elections, as we are surrounded by short cycles of circumstantialism and conjuncture. We see how unemployment today marks generations, forgotten and pushed to emigration or to silence and dependence; we see how submission to a speculative economy and without any will to change the world to better create poverty around it; we see how the social failures of today's policies are presented as virtues. It is true to say that failing in front of the country is only guaranteed promises of new failures, without repentance and without criticism; failing from now on with employment, investment and wealth creation is failure in the program; failing in your program and being irreducible in the mistake is failing with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister : We are today witnessing the loss of a heritage that should be above the circumstantial management of the public thing. I refer to the idea of State, national sovereignty and our future plans. Portugal is what its institutions are and what their will is. How do we move away from the casuism that undermines us and assume the duties of our history and our time? Of course, we do so by knowing how to affirm our presence in the world. by assuming our European presence, but by knowing that we are in touch with our Atlantic presence. Europe, in fact, cannot self-block itself around the world, from then on to immigration, to another Europe from which centuries of migrants have gone out to seek revenge for all latitudes. When Cabral and Gago Coutinho shake over the South Atlantic for the first time, in a technological, technological, and strategic stream that we do not always remember, its destination is Brazil and its path is the Atlantic Sea. It is in the Atlantic, in the crossing between Europe, Africa, North America and South America, that Portugal is reflected and overcomes. We still lack the sea, which has built us as people and as will, which we have forgotten in the last decades. Guided by the overvaluation of a service economy, we need to know that we are up to our sea, our natural resources, our know-how and our legitimate ambitions, avoiding the degradation of the possibilities that have marked the early years. Alongside our sea as a strategic element, there is also our language, an immense heritage, with more than 240 million speakers, integrated into a community of Portuguese-speaking countries, political and diplomatic conquest that needs to be valued and enhanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Lusophony is not just a circumstance or a detail. Being Portuguese is reason for pride in our past and present; speaking Portuguese is reason for confidence in our future. on 25 April and in the first free elections, which we hold today, we have always found a strengthening of determination and hope. Determination and, above all, trust are what we need to face the next few years. Not from the words spent by the use, but from what is found within them. And if «in things is that things are», as one of our poets said, within us is necessarily that desire to overcome difficulties and to look confidently at our future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u12	Without fatalism and no bites, it is up to us to overcome our blockades. Creating employment and taking collective solidarity as value and as practice, modernizing our administration and our economy, viewing as priority and decisive what is strategic and defining us as a country in the world concert. As Torga said, «It is impossible that the present time is not the dawn of another era». [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we will be at the time of April and of this people who have been building their freedom every day for more than 40 years. Constituent Members, we will always remember your work. Long live April 25th! Long live the Constitution of the Republic, Viva Portugal! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u13	In representation of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u14	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and other higher courts, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen: Today, 41 years are completed on the end of a dictatorship which took away the basic freedom of the Portuguese to publicly express their views on national problems, as well as to discuss the best ways and means of overcoming them without mind. Today, 41 years are completed on the beginning of an era of freedom, through a State guided solely by law and its compliance, by the separation of powers and by the effective consecration of rights, freedoms and guarantees, in particular, the freedom of the press that we will never call into question. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] A rule of law that gives us the public happiness of living in democracy. A democracy always imperfect, incomplete, lacking improvement, but in which the importance of discording is as important as the importance of agreeing, in which any citizen, irrespective of his social status, his religious convictions, his gender or the color of his skin, can freely manifest himself and in which all powers are, and must be limited and subject exclusively to the will of the people expressed in free elections, within the limits of the constitutional contract defined by the sovereign will of that same people. Today and we will always celebrate April 25th! We will always be indebted to him for freedom and democracy, aware of the full legitimacy and greatness of our Armed Forces, which have carried it out, not because they constituted themselves as a defeated army, but because they were led by a set of imbibed officials of democratic ideals that freed the country, allowing public freedoms, leaving space open to African peoples, so far under Portuguese administration, to build their own history independently. On 25 April, Portugal returned to a Europe dominated by a difficult but indispensable process of integration. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, six centuries are also completed this year on the conquest of Ceuta, which is to say the same about the beginning of the construction of the Portuguese colonial empire, which, as Adriano Moreira taught us, went through three temporal cycles: Asian, American and African. Time during which our European sovereignty has been supported in this empire, which has travelled three continents and has always given us strategic and decisive points of support and rearguard, especially at times of national emergency, such as in 1640 or 1807. On 25 April, which made us free, it also made other peoples living under colonial yoke free and, for once in a long time, Portugal and the Portuguese were handed over to themselves. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] With a very fragile European identity consciousness, without wanting to lose or reject the Atlantic consciousness of our historical heritage, revised and updated in a brilliant fiction in the Stone Jangada, Saramago, reduced to its initial national space, the Portuguese made the natural choice, which was the choice for Europe. Europe which today has the duty not to let itself be fortified and, consequently, not to continue to give reason to the words of Giusi Nicolini, President of the municipality of Lampedusa, to say as since 2012 : « How big must be the cemetery of my island ». Over four decades of active participation in the European design in which for each support coming from the European Union we have always been required to contribute to our responsibility. And thus, we have built our infrastructures, modernizing and developing the Country; and thus we have created the National Health Service providing all Portuguese, without exception, health care; and thus we have opened schools throughout the country to, through a qualified and universal education, move from a country marked by illiteracy to a country where education is widespread and science aspires to and fulfils the best criteria of excellence; and thus, a social security system in which, even those who have not contributed, are entitled to a pension and the most deprived of diverse social support; and thus we have advanced in access to justice, creating a body of judges who, despite all difficulties, has been able to maintain their irreplaceable independence, whose matrix is the matrix of democracy; and so it has evolved in the reorganization of our Armed Forces, the strength, composed by the best that our society has and the most appropriate part of the functions and competences of the defence of the national sovereignty, it deserves to be more comprehensively respected, as well as to ensure and respect for the security of the national sovereignty. None of this, and much more, was free from difficulties and it is good to remember that, over the course of 41 years, we were the subject of three external interventions that forced Portugal and the Portuguese to enormous trials and even sacrifices that have reached all, although especially the most fragile fringes of our population. The success of democracy cannot hide its fragility. We must have the humility of recognizing that, over these four decades, many sufferings and damage could have been spared the country and the Portuguese if decisions of governments and rulers had not yielded to the temptation to exchange the long-term for immediate advantage, to confuse the truth with illusion, to opt for the convenient superficiality, rather than the hard way of study and work, the only one that allows to substantiate decisions, closing the door to arbitrariness, making the common interest in influence and customerism prevail without ambiguities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In 2015, after painful years of limited and conditional sovereignty, nothing else can be like before. We must learn from our mistakes, transforming them into shared wisdom, able to serve as a basis for the new consensus that the country so urgently needs. I agree with those who should not exist only because they are politically correct, but also, above all, because they are based on a vision of the Middle and Long-Term Country, with the aim of being able to improve today without putting into question any further improvement tomorrow. in the framework of hope that we have before us, we must choose the path of responsibility and not the path of illusion. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, the vote should be more and more thorough, the demand for good will have to be permanent. We will have to seek transparency where shadow areas still prevail, which diminish the scope of law and justice. The common position requires that we clearly consolidate and reaffirm the subordination of economic power to political power, enshrined in our fundamental law. Mr President of the Republic, Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic, we will all have to act with more humility, never forgetting that we are the servants of a sovereign people, who know where he comes from and asks us to be able to meet the demanding tasks that can guarantee us a dignified future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese demand truth and responsibility from us. Accepting this requirement will be the best way to continue, in words and acts, the path that opened us generously on 25 April. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u15	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice and other higher courts, former Presidents of the Republic, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mrs. Attorney-General of the Republic, Mr. Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces and other institutional representatives of the Armed Forces, Mr. Representatives of the Legislative Assemblys and the Governments of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, former Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic, State Counsellors, Mr. Nuncio Apostolico, Mr. Ambassadors and representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, former Members of the Constituent Assembly, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen : April was born in the depths of a human desire for justice, simple and elementary, imperative and fundamental. Freedom, the right measure, the proper proportion in relation to people and people with things! It was because of this desire that history was built on what it has most beautiful, between the political struggle and the ideas of the righteous. April is therefore the celebration of politics as freedom that is exercised, as hope, as an emancipative force that tells us that we are masters of our destiny and authors of the world. We feel this responsibility, now driven by the global nature of contemporary events, which distinguishes them from everything we have previously known and makes it necessary to establish a universal society. Globalisation limits the possibilities of national policies to a new environment where problems gain a new scale. So it doesn't leave us easy optimism. The fracture between the north and the south, with its indices of inequality, the environmental issue and terrorism make us think, in this twenty-first century, of how it is not acquired the elevation of the general level of the human condition. Following the words of Philip Resnick, we do not live in the best of the worlds: urban suburbs, ecological disasters, waves of refugees from hunger and stateless people, are only part of the background of a millennium beginning that has three parts of apocalypse and a part of celebration. We are called, therefore, to build the political project of modern democracy, on the globalization of the economy and markets, demographic movements and communication networks, on the dynamics of a post-industrial revolution that makes us think of freedom as we do. Globalization requires cooperative efforts, transversal initiatives, based on deeply democratic convictions. It brings us the challenge of an extended moral community as a political task. And it makes us engage in new methodologies and new protagonists. Reorganizes States and social structures. States in associations, social structures knowing an unprecedented role in the dialogue of cultures. Often, they even strategically advance to the state. All are actors in this great meeting that will one day lead to the universal affirmation of human rights. That is the deliberative way for the moral progress of mankind. And that is why it is so necessary to raise the level of individual and collective awareness through education. I already said Protagoras that « The virtue of politics can be taught and all must learn it». The same route was pointed out by Enlightenment, which linked education to the majority of peoples and the foundations of a cosmopolitan world. The interactions of the technical society, the economy and the demographic movements dictate a continuity between internal policy and foreign policy, between the space of the nation and the space of the world. As Kant had already warned in his perpetual peace when he stated that « The problem of the institution of a perfect constitution depends on a legal external relationship between States and cannot be resolved without the latter ». This proposal which we remember today in the company of many of our Constituent Members. They gave us the Constitution, the strongest message in April. We have the sense of the greatness of our task, in this new and difficult time which puts the capacity of our democratic institutions to the test. Because if there is an ethical challenge inscribed in the universal era, it is surely to deliver its true territory to the values of constitutionalism. It is the territory of the world that has always belonged to it by nature, but it has never been recognized. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis was also the tip of the iceberg of a changing world. The crisis showed the excesses of financial capitalism indifferent to society, the problem of resource limitation and its distribution between individuals, generations and peoples. And it brought forth in each of us a more intense sense about the place of the other. In a way, it has taken us from our particular sphere to live in comparison with that it is already a positive step forward. The crisis compels us, then, to rethink our paradigms, with reference to the real human being, compels us to dive into the facts, to explore the causes, to separate the wheat from the juicy, to invent new answers, to look at all the unprejudiced deserts and ideas made, challenges us to one another: The growth of the economy according to a new, qualitative model, which knows the limits of the environment and the social issue; a new working time, which receives the advantages of scientific and technological evolution and releases for individual realization; a new socially committed governance of companies; the response of the rule of law to the increasing pressure of the digital society on the autonomy of the individual. Freedom even means an insistent desire for freedom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, globalization is challenging us to place on the world scale the idea of humanity as a regulatory principle. It forces us to regain the political primacy over the economy and markets. It requires us to be bridge makers, platforms for each other. Therefore our concern about the European Union. Without consistency and without resilience, the European Union will not be able to design its way of existence in the world and, however, the journey from the coal and steel community to the European Union is a virtuous path that will gain its ultimate meaning only if it is replicated in the formation of other regional associations of States such as Mercosur, the African Union or ASEAN. If this course is replicated in the activism of these regional associations it will be their permanent representation in the UN to open the way to a 'People's Union'. It is about a structured dialogue between the regional associations of States and the evolution of the role of international organisations that the ethics of rights can be extended to the economy and gain consensus among different national cultures. Here comes the strategic importance of the World Trade Organisation. The World Trade Organization should incorporate the regional associations of States into a new multilateralism. And free trade rules will no longer be alone on the table. New issues will be brought together, such as those linking work and the environment to human rights. In fact, the low wage and environmental levels of emerging economies make competition unfair or impossible, so a kind of new silk route is imposed, with a new balance. Political consultation is therefore the only way for this Babel that only in an ethics of universal coexistence can build its tower. And we Portuguese, made out of the matter of universality that we have created, have, in the context of our language and diaspora, the right place to fulfil our part, without forgetting the European Union. The European Union which has its unity committed in the long term to the fragmented policies of States: criminal law without a truly common policy; the almost absence of a European foreign and security policy, with the risk of marginalisation on the international scene; budgetary convergence without a minimum basis of common social rules, employment and social security; and European development and immigration policies, seen from Lampedusa, Ceuta or Melilla. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, politics is always beyond our limits, transcendence in the things we do, is always bold. April gave us the freedom to put up our sleeves in much to do. He has given it to us for democracy, to establish among human beings, and in their relationship with things at their disposal, the just proportion that is the measure of justice. A kind of ecology of living and living that has in politics as the love of the world its starting point. [[PSD, standing, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] I now give the floor to Mr President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u16	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests, Ladies and gentlemen : We celebrate today on 25 April, an occasion of celebration and joy, in which Portugal celebrates freedom, democracy and also development and social justice. Just 40 years ago, on 25 April 1975, the Portuguese took part in the first truly free elections of our history. by choosing the members of the Constituent Assembly, in the one who was the most participating electoral act in the history of our democracy, the Portuguese demonstrated to be on the side of freedom against all forms of authoritarianism. Members of the Assembly of the Republic, whom I warmly greet today and whom I thank for the excellence of institutional cooperation, may be proud to be the successors of the constituents elected in 1975. On 25 April there are several heroes—and the largest of all is the Portuguese people. We must celebrate April with a sense of future, so that the new generations know that freedom and democracy are values that are built and renewed every day. at a time when, in many parts of the world, including in Europe, we see signs of intolerance and threats to freedom, at a time when some are attracted by radical extremism, we must renew our commitment to a freer and fairer society. The Portuguese profile the values of democracy and tolerance, strongly refuse the use of violence and conflict as forms of political action. We are a people of peace and dialogue. Let us work harmoniously with all other peoples. in commemorating April 25 in the Assembly of the Republic, in a year in which this legislature ends and in which another will begin, we must think about the future of Portugal, making a serious and serene reflection on the great challenges that the country will have to face. Portugal has carried out a demanding Economic and Financial Assistance Programme which, at a time of national emergency, has been obliged to establish with the international institutions which have lent us the funds indispensable to the financing of the State and the economy. We live a new phase of national life: although we have a long way to go, the economy has already shown signs of growth and job creation, external accounts are balanced and are expected to emerge from the situation of excessive deficit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are today a respected and credible country on the international scene, a country in which institutions and investors can trust. In any case, there are still decisive challenges for our future to control public spending and state debt, to finance companies, to competitiveness of the economy and to tax equity, to which we must associate support for productive investment and an agenda for economic growth and job creation. If there is no clear awareness on the part of the political agents that Portuguese should mobilize these challenges, the sacrifices we have made will little value and, in many cases, have given rise to dramatic situations, some of which still remain today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thinking about the future of Portugal means first and foremost diagnosing our fundamental problems and pointing out lines of direction that must be taken by the various political forces. The country faces medium- and long-term challenges that do not run out on the temporal horizon of a legislature, but in order to build a more just and developed Portugal for the new generations, it is essential that concrete measures be taken in the near future. We have faced a very serious problem of breaking birth and aging the population. Portugal is from the countries of the world where fewer children are born proportionally. In addition to all issues associated with low births, such as the sustainability of social security, the desertification of vast areas of the territory and the degradation of the principle of solidarity between generations, the breakdown of the number of births is a factor of impoverishment for the country as a whole. Population ageing not only reduces the potential growth of the economy as the pressure on public accounts increases through pension and health expenditure. Even more serious: the fact that fewer children are born means that in the future we will have fewer young entrepreneurs, fewer active and creative citizens, less skilled workers. In addition to the urgent need to promote a strategy to increase birth, so that I have repeatedly drawn attention to my mandates, it is essential to encourage the return of those who, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, have decided to start off on their way abroad. In key areas for our future, the country has seen many of its young people leave, most of whom are highly qualified. It is now, as long as the ties that unite them to Portugal remain alive, that we must act and promote their return, creating conditions so that their talents and abilities can bear fruit among us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We must also adopt a coherent strategy for the collection of talents and integration of immigrant communities. Portugal is proud to be a tolerant and inclusive country, a fraternal and multicultural land, where citizens from all over the world can work and live harmoniously and peacefully. We need to deepen our efforts to integrate foreign communities, to respect their diversity and to share values that we will never abdicate: freedom and democracy, justice and tolerance. On the other hand, many of the young people who remain in Portugal have no employment. Others find themselves in situations of underemployment and precarious employment. They are forced to postpone their life options, uncertain as to what the future will bring them. Portugal, which already faces a serious birth problem, is thus wasting another fundamental asset, its young people. It does not admire the disinterest of new generations for civic and political activity. All of us — and the political agents, in particular — should reflect very seriously on this phenomenon. Only through a strategy designed to create qualified employment will it be possible to increase the trust of young people in institutions. Many feel that it was in vain the investment they made in their school training and vocational qualification. To maintain this situation, Portugal loses twice: on the one hand, it loses what it has already invested in the education and qualification of its young people; on the other hand, it wastes the contribution of these young people to, with their talents and initiative, help the country return to a sustainable path of economic growth and job creation. The civic mobilization of young people — and citizens in general — also involves a work of credibility for the institutions and their protagonists. at the end of four decades of democracy, political agents must understand, once and for all, that the need for interparty commitments is intrinsic to our political system and that the Portuguese do not reveal themselves in forms of intervention that promote conflict and crispaction and put the occasional partisan interests above the national interest. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese are tired of political conflict around ancillary and artificial issues, when there should be a union of efforts to open up future prospects for new generations, to combat unemployment and poverty, to improve equity in the distribution of income, to support our elderly. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members: In a context of the dignity of the institutions, a firm attitude to combat corruption is therefore needed, one of the greatest enemies of democratic societies. Corruption has extremely serious effects on the relationship between citizens and the State, reducing trust in institutions and creating, in particular, the false idea that the generality of political agents or senior management of the Administration does not perform their functions transparently, to the exclusive service of the community. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is this false perception that populists feed on and open the door to demagogy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In addition, corruption calls into question one of the essential elements of collective life: the cohesion of the social fabric. Portugal has important assets, especially compared to many co-generation countries of the European Union. One of these assets is precisely social cohesion. Thanks to it, we were able to go through a period of hard sacrifices without having seen radicalisms and dramatic ruptures, as has been the case in some countries in South Europe. To maintain social cohesion, it is essential that there is a commitment by all to combating corruption. In a Republic of equal citizens, no one is above the law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in this context, a challenge we have to face is the promotion of a justice policy focused on defending the collective interest and individual rights. Only through credible, swift and effective justice can Portugal affirm itself as a consolidated rule of law, a meritocratic society of free and equal citizens. Reforms of our justice system have been approved that will achieve full results only if the judicial officers, judges who know the reality of the courts are actively involved. I am sure that this is an area where it will be possible to find inter-party consensus capable of giving stability to the fundamental reforms already introduced or which are being presented in the meantime. It is well known that delays in the justice system, in addition to reading citizens' legitimate rights and expectations, are one of the determining factors of the least attractiveness of investment, affecting the dynamism and competitiveness of our economy. Also in the field of Public Administration, despite technological modernization and advances in the provision of digital services, there are still factors that make it difficult to attract investment and business initiative. Unfortunately, the debate on State reform has been put on an ideological battlefield, in which arguments are raised which, in particular, contribute little to what we all want: an independent, impartial and close administration of citizens, sized according to the efficient provision of goods and services of a public nature, with qualified officials and with leaders chosen exclusively for their merit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Public Administration must be competitive in the labour market in order to recruit, motivate and maintain within its framework the human resources capable of performing the tasks of great responsibility required of it. The Portuguese recognize in the social state the model that has brought them important benefits in areas such as health, education, social security and culture. The social state is one of the greatest achievements of our democracy. It is an area in which debate and consensus on its future are needed. It is not a question of reducing the social protection of citizens who need it, but of ensuring the sustainability of the system on an extended time horizon and of increasing the efficiency, fairness and quality of the services provided. To a large extent, the quality of democracy depends on the quality of public services provided to citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The way they perceive and evaluate the action of rulers, political agents, and party forces depends much on the daily relationship that they maintain with the Public Administration. in this sense, improving the efficiency of the state is also contributing to the quality of democracy and to the prestige of the political class. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of 40 years of democracy, it is remarkable what we have achieved. We have not only built a democratic and free country, respected in the international scene, as we have built more solidarity and inclusive society. But we are dissatisfied: we are ambitious, we want a better future. We aim for a fairer Portugal, a more dynamic and competitive economy, an education of excellence and a National Service of Sustainable Health and Quality. In four decades of democracy, citizens have significantly improved quality and access to education and health care. Portugal currently has scientists and researchers who shade with the best. Technological progress in the detection and treatment of the disease is at the level of those registered in the most developed countries. Success in combating infant mortality is a global reference. The excellence in education, the development of competences throughout life and the sustainability of the National Health Service remain, however, as great challenges that must mobilize the Assembly of the Republic in the next legislature. The future of the Portuguese National Health Service cannot be seen only in its financial dimension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u17	Investment in population health is a source of wealth creation that cannot be wasted. Above all, it is an imperative of justice and of safeguarding human dignity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The report of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation A future for Health provides an informed and objective basis for the establishment of the political and social pact for the next decade that this sector requires. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a constant theme of my mandates, that of the national strategy for the sea, has definitely entered the political agenda. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the broad consensus reached in this House in the adoption of the Basic Law on the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area and the developments in the port and fish processing sectors, for their contribution to the increase of exports. Despite the advances, there is a great potential of the economy of the sea yet to be explored and a political challenge of the greatest relevance that it is important to face in the next legislature: the adoption of a truly integrated governance of the sea's affairs. It is necessary to ensure an efficient linkage of all matters of the sea, regardless of the governmental guardianship in which they are located, in order to ensure the implementation of the strategy defined for the sector. in another area, of great importance, it has become clear the need to ensure the safety of citizens in the face of new transnational threats, which we must respond through the affirmation of our values and principles, but also through preventive and repressive means. Portugal is an open and tolerant society. To continue this way, you must firmly reject extremism and be intransigent with violence and terrorism. A pressing challenge here is to adapt the organization and operation of all the structures that make up our national security system to the requirements arising from these new dangers, which are not announced and which do not know borders. Although on a clearly different plane than the one I have just mentioned, violence does not manifest itself only through physical force and weapons. We have witnessed in the public debate in Portugal at a level of discrimination and verbal aggression which often does not hesitate to circumvent the controversy of opinions for attacks and insults of personal character. in a mature democracy, the informed debate and the diversity of opinions are fundamental values. Values which, however, are at risk of being obscured and relegated to a secondary plan if there is still a tendency to resort to sterile complaints, slander and defamation as instruments of political combat. We are no longer in the field of differences of opinion; on the contrary, in the eyes of the citizens, the diversity of ideas will be lost-CL and the public debate will be impoverished. Verbal violence, amplified by media noise, distances citizens from the life of the Republic, promotes civic disinterest, corrupts Portuguese confidence in their institutions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I therefore call on Members, representatives of the people, this Parliament and what will start at the end of this year, to contribute, by the strength of their example, to the rise of public debate and the quality of democracy in Portugal. Only in this way, through dialogue and consensus, will it be possible to achieve the essential commitments to ensure political stability and governance and to successfully meet the challenges facing us in the future. Only through the compromise between democratic forces was it possible to approve the Constitution of the Republic and to carry out many of the dreams of April. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Looking at the map of Europe, Portugal appears as a small and peripheral country. But sometimes appearances are deceptive. We are of the countries with the highest level of social cohesion of the Union, we have privileged ties of friendship with various peoples of the world, our language is spoken by millions of human beings. Above all, we are the space where Europe opens up to the Atlantic. The sea is projecting us and enlarging us, putting us in the center of the planet. on the map of the world—and no longer the European continent—, Portugal is not on the periphery; on the contrary, it occupies a central place. in the time of globalization, in which geography is continually reconstructed with the support of technology and new forms of communication, it is for the map of the world that we should look at. There, observing the whole world, Portugal is at the heart of contemporaryism. We were pioneers 500 years ago, when we took advantage of our proximity to the ocean to discover new worlds; we were pioneers 40 years ago when the April revolution began a wave of democratization that extended to several countries in Europe : first, in the South ; then, in the Eastern bloc. We were not afraid of the unknown, either in the time of the Discovery, or on April 25, but today the Portuguese should not be afraid of the time they live. We face great challenges, no doubt, but History has revealed that it was always at those times that we showed to be stronger and more courageous. on 25 April, we must celebrate hope. It was the hope of a new time that gave encouragement and courage to the military who took down the dictatorship. It is the hope of a better future that must unite us all on behalf of Portugal and on behalf of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-25.u18	I declare closed the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLI Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 12 hours.]]
