ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 10 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, they have entered the Bureau the projects of lein.o 840 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 107 / 2001 of 8 September 2001 amending the rules for the inventory, dispatch and export of works and amending the VAT rate applicable to the restoration of cultural movable property ( PS ) and 848 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychic suffering or cause animal death and prohibits the display of such shows on public television ( BE). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u3	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of national agricultural products in advertising campaigns and in proximity markets ( PSD ), 1374 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an integrated and effective strategy to enhance local actors and products with a special focus on proximity markets ( CDS-PP ), 1389 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Estimulation to proximity markets, short-marketing circuits and profitability of production activity ( PCP ), 1390 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to dynamize small-scale products and proximity markets ( PS ) and 1391 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ). To present draft resolution No 1289 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the PSD has the floor Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma that the PSD here brings to the debate today has as its fundamental objective to allow for a better and greater marketing capacity and promotion of those who are our agricultural products, our traditional and regional products. The PSD is aware that there are many difficulties for national producers today due to far more competitive competition than in the past, whether by the requirements of large distribution, either by the high costs of context and production or even by the excessive zeal in the transposition in 2005 of many European standards on food security, which were fatal to certain local and traditional productions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u6	in this sense, the PSD considers it essential to provide conditions for producers to be able to sell their products more and better, to market what we have best in our lands, that is, what we have not always found in many of the chains of large distribution. I would like to begin by congratulating not only the Government, which has recently legislated the proximity markets, which defines a set of entities with competence for the installation of local producer markets and which really has a very important role in the dissemination of our local products, but also giving special attention to the authorities, who will have an important and decisive role in this process of making suitable places available for the sale of our products. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u7	Creating conditions for these proximity markets is not only to allow our producers to sell their products, it is also to give new opportunities for the growth of local economic dynamics, which have gradually disappeared and which many of them have caused desertification in the interior territories. Creating local markets is encouraging that there are new small local productions, it is encouraging those who want to produce,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u9	... is to create conditions to which you want to keep on your land and create your roots there, to defend what is ours. with regard to promotion, our intention is also clear: one of Portugal's greatest riches lies in cultural diversity in agricultural terms, food and food products. Each of our regions is rich in what has on the earth and the PSD understands that, in addition to promoting and disseminating our natural, environmental, historical, religious, monumental heritage, it is also imperative to pay more attention to the gastronomic heritage. To spread our gastronomy is to disseminate our products, to support our producers, to give voice and to those who work our land and who give what we have the best. It is important that all those who pass through our country today, who sleep in our hotels, who eat in our restaurants, who visit our monuments can in every part of this journey have information and incentive to buy Portuguese products, products from our regions and products from what comes out of our agriculture. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u10	To present draft resolution No 1374 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Abel Baptista has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Support for national agricultural production, exploitation of small producers and promotion of endogenous products is a brand of the CDS. That is why we have presented legislative initiatives and proposals for the enhancement of local products with a focus on proximity markets in the Government and in the Assembly of the Republic. With the creation of specific legislation on local producer markets, local economy is stimulated, job creation is provided and value and population is retained in the territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u12	thus, it promotes and improves the competitiveness of small agriculture and establishes a greater proximity between production, marketing and direct consumption with economic benefits for producers and consumers, social and environmental benefits, contributing significantly to the reduction of carbon footprint. They also allow small family production to be able to drain its agricultural and craft production which does not receive a response from the large distribution and which gives a differentiating character and, in most cases, high quality production in terms of exclusivity and taste. Through the promotion of these local producer markets, which can be organised by local authorities, producer organisations or as a whole, the existence of a local agri-food system linked to the territory and local uses that confer the typicality of the product, associated with specific manufacturing processes of products that begin in the geographical delimitation of production, includes all stages of the production of the raw material to the processing of the final product, of which are examples the cheeses, smoked, liqueurs, honey, sweetness or bread. It is with this stimulus of the local economy that a greater social interaction is achieved between urban and rural communities. For the CDS-PP Portuguese agriculture should all be supported either the one which exports to the national market or the one which produces for the local market, or the one which produces for self-consumption. This is the extent to which we present the draft resolution here under discussion and which provides for the possibility of promoting and dynamizing these local producer markets. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u13	To present draft resolution No 1389 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr João Ramos has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that these projects are discussed here when the Council of Ministers, on 19 March, has already taken a decision, particularly in terms of proximity markets. Therefore, I think it is worth noting that, if the majority brings these projects here, of two, one : or does not trust the government and believes that it should reinforce what their advice on these matters is... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u15	... or, then, it is political opportunism in the sense of a matter which is already going to advance, we will present here a set of projects. As for not trusting the government, we can also follow the majority, because we do not trust the majority, and therefore we have no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u17	If it is political opportunism, then we already think it is worthy of denunciation and for four years there have been a set of issues that have not been resolved and now there is a kind of dispute between the majority and the government. I would also like to say that the set of problems that agriculture is facing today are of great depth — in fact, the PSD has finally acknowledged it. There are a number of problems that have to do with profitability, with prices paid for production, often below what are the conditions for the viability of companies where farmers, on the one hand, do not control the price of the products they buy, but also do not control the prices of what they produce and what they sell and the government through the PARCA (Agri-Food Chain Relations Monitoring Platform) and the markets have not been able to solve this problem over four years and the definition of small and medium-sized agriculture has actually come about. This is the bulk of the problems that exist in agriculture. However, proximity markets and direct sales, we believe that they can play an important role until today the large distribution represents almost 70% of what is the sales business and has a huge tendency to suffocate prices and the government cannot or does not want to control these matters. Thus, the proximity markets and direct sales, although not solving all the problems of agriculture, far from that, can have an important contribution here and a contribution that needs concrete political measures. We therefore criticise the PSD project, which is very much based on advertising issues, but, in addition to encouraging the authorities, which is important, has very little about political measures. We had a bit here that moment Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, the doctor and the monster, in which the monster, which is this government that has clearly attacked the small agriculture, now wants to be the doctor and present here a few small panaceas to solve a set of problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u19	We understand that there are a number of matters in which we need to intervene clearly, and that is why I am referring to our proposals, in particular: We propose the establishment of a working group involving the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry responsible for regional development, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the confederations representing small farmers for, within six months, presenting a report with measures to dynamize local markets and direct sales instruments. We also propose that a review be made of the projects and initiatives of the entities already working on this issue and may involve them in the preparation of this report. We also understand that, as small producers and the profitability of small producers, it is necessary to look at the system of organisation of small producers, in particular the producer organisations to which changes have been introduced which make it difficult for these organisations to take place within the framework of small farmers when demanding production values and numbers of producers which are not suitable for small-scale production. On the other hand, we believe that tax and exemption measures must be laid down that are appropriate to the characteristics of small producers. I recall that this government created this measure to force small producers selling directly on the market to register in finance, which led to more than 14,000 farmers no longer resorting to support, in addition to the statement that it was Brussels that required, prevented, that there were exemptions. After all, in the reform of the IRS, published on 31 December 2014, here is the exemption for the inclusion of those who receive up to 4 AI (indicating social support) in support of the CAP. They therefore lie to us saying that Brussels required no exemptions and no registration. Mr President, in conclusion, we believe that, in addition to the need for public support to stimulate the functioning of local markets, there is also a need for a set of measures to support small agriculture, but these are fundamental to stimulating proximity markets, local markets...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u20	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u21	I conclude, Madam President. As I said, there is also a need for a set of significant measures to support small agriculture and if most of them want to effectively improve the income of small farmers, they will have many difficulties in voting against these CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u22	Mr President, the Bureau was a little distracted and therefore did not alert to the use of time. To present draft resolution No 1390 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the PS has the floor Mr. Miguel Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite differences in the various draft resolutions, the PS would like to begin by valuing the various initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u24	All right! unlike the Portuguese Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u25	The fact that all parliamentary groups have taken initiatives in the light of the prospect of defending small productions and proximity markets shows the concern that exists in this House, on the part of all parties, in this matter. The aim of the Socialist Party's proposal is to consolidate what has been done in recent years with regard to issues relating to the protection of traditional products, in particular with regard to products of protected origin and organic farming. In 20 years of work, more than 100 certified products in Portugal is a remarkable work of producer organisations, which we would naturally also like to highlight here, because our main objective is to continue to work towards the consolidation of these products. But we believe it is also important to introduce new trends in this Parliament's speech, particularly with regard to permaculture and urban gardens. They are two new dimensions of small production which also need to work and help consolidate. On the other hand, we thought it was important to look at the proximity markets not as isolated realities in our territory, but in order to create a network of local or regional-based proximity markets. This would be a very interesting experience, because it would allow producers in production markets to be present in more than one proximity market, more than one production market. And network management, integrated market management — two, three or four markets in each region — would allow for programming on the part of these producers to be present on these markets and to have greater ease of sorting their products. We also believe it is important to work towards improving the licensing of micro-productions. Making a small kitchen to produce traditional fillings or to produce artisan cheese is not the same as having a large, medium or even small company. Finally, after all the remarkable work that has been done by agricultural production organisations, by local development associations, by regional tourism entities, from the point of view of promoting traditional products, what we believe is essential now to articulate all these initiatives. from there the PS proposal for a national programme to bring together, associate, give dimension to the work that has been done on the ground by hundreds of entities, to whom, of course, the PS also wants to leave a word of appreciation and gratitude for all they have done in favour of national production. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u26	To present draft resolution No 1391 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of proximity markets and support for small farmers is indeed a very important issue and has been under discussion in this House of the Republic several times. It has been in debate, although this debate and, above all, the measures that were necessary to implement have shocked the wall of the majority of the PSD and the CDS, such as the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you remember. We are currently discussing draft resolutions with some measures to promote the proximity markets, but, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that either the PSD draft resolution or the CDS draft resolution is very small in this matter. Is that just a line? Oh, my God! Does the CDS propose an integrated strategy? Oh, my God! But what is that? We are in time to implement the integrated strategy! And the PSD proposes the promotion of products in hotels and restaurants? Oh, my God! Mr President, this is already done in large part, but that is all we are going to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u28	He does? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u29	Yes, Mr. Deputy, even in your region, where you live. You must know that! So let us talk about concrete things, if we want to deal seriously with the proximity markets. There is no point in continuing to play on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to examine the policy that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture have followed over four years. It's just that agribusiness has always been given priority, always! Not long ago we saw that here! The small farmers have been crushed, with a fundamental problem—we will not ignore it! — which is the price paid for production — here is the node of the issue — but also with the tax requirements and bureaucracy imposed on small farmers, some of them over 60 and 70 years old and some up to 80 years old. Let's discuss this here several times! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are they forgotten? Oh, my God! Now, come the gentlemen. Members of the majority with a strategy for proximity markets. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if some of these small producers go back to these markets. And we're going to the same conversation as Mr. Abel Baptista's coroner and salsa mills. It is because many have abandoned the proximity markets, because they are scared of your policies, and you know that as well as me or better than me. So let's see if they can come back. We need concrete measures and, indeed, in all resolutions, there are a number of measures that deserve consideration. Therefore, we will support the PS and PCP resolution projects, which have a set of measures that need to be further developed, and the Left Block presents a concrete measure that seems fundamental to us, because this does not go there with integrated strategies, it is necessary to implement strategies: all public canteens, and there are many, should have a policy to buy local products. It was a measure and, yes, it encouraged markets. It's just one, it's true! Do you need more? They are, yes, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one! Let's start somewhere. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u30	After the presentation of draft resolutions was completed, we moved on to the speeches of the various parliamentary groups. Thus, for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who has heard today the interventions of the PSD and the CDS would say that there is something strange about what you have been watching here. And maybe it's important to clarify some things. For example, you have been extremely concerned today about small production and small producers, but the fact is that, throughout the legislature, many of the concrete measures that have been taken have ruined these small producers, particularly with the obligation to register in finance and making it difficult to support these small farmers. Now, they destroy and after much has been destroyed, they come here and say that it is necessary to safeguard. It's a case to say: afternoon they plough, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But here we are, in fact, talking about extraordinarily serious things, because we are also talking about the support of many families. On the other hand, it is also strange that these proposals by the majority now arise as a result of something already adopted in the Council of Ministers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u32	It was not « one thing», it was a legislative measure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u33	... that says practically the same as you here come to propose. If this happened on the part of the opposition parties, you voted against, because they said: 'Ah, the government is already doing' or 'The government is planning to do'. Then—it is very true! — you never do, but you use this argument to lead many opposition initiatives, and now you come here as a copy of the government initiative, but you do not, in fact, trust in their realisation, and in this, in fact, I am right to you. But those who have heard you speak here today would not believe that you fell, in particular, two of the projects which The Greens have persistently brought to the Assembly of the Republic, precisely in order to drain the products of local and regional production. I am referring to a project which provides for the mandatory existence of a certain quantity of local products in hypermarkets in Portugal — as you know, many Portuguese people regularly shop in hypermarkets and, therefore, they cannot stay out of the compulsory flow of local production, this should be guaranteed — and, on the other hand, to a project, which The Greens have repeatedly brought to the Assembly of the Republic, which is related to the fact that the public canteens also help this flow of local production. It makes all the sense! It makes every sense that, too, small farmers and, in particular, family farming can be helped. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we talk about this small agriculture, we are talking about a component of production with extraordinary environmental advantages, we are talking about a more sustainable agriculture, from a social point of view, we are talking about aid and support for many families and, from an economic point of view, we are talking about the dynamisation of local and regional economies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Greens would like to say about this debate and the presentation of the draft resolutions that we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u34	All right! [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u35	You now have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are coming to the end of the debate, the majority will make their final speeches and, in this sense, I hope that they will carry out a little more the ideas presented here and, above all, the strategy. I would like to take this few seconds to say that the proposal presented by the Left Block is a simple, easy-to-recognizable proposal that could be an important step towards the recovery of local products, as a contribution to the income of small farmers, but also has broader objectives, because it will contribute to energy efficiency and to the preservation of the environment and it is also Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a contribution to combating climate change, because, as we all know well, things are done with great measures, but they are also done with small measures. In this context, we are talking about the place and the place has an absolutely fundamental position in changing attitudes, changing mentalities. One last word, Madam President, because some draft resolutions also refer to local authorities. Local authorities are a key partner. On the other hand, organizing the territory, looking at the territory and the producers without the participation of the authorities is not possible. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the majority, we will not send everything to the back of the authorities, especially more responsibilities, without having enough resources. Let us see if this is what we are actually placing on local markets and in support of small farmers, very small farmers. I am only deeply sorry that many have left agriculture and local markets, the result of a policy that you have followed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u37	Mr. Abel Baptista has signed up to intervene, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr João Ramos has probably been distracted, given the efforts of the CFP to be a little out of focus on agriculture. It is because we are in a sovereign body and a sovereign body wants to value agriculture and small agriculture is not wasting away. In fact, it is not only dismissing what our obligation is. Mr Ramos, the CDS does not abandon today, as it has not abandoned in the past, nor will it abandon agriculture in the future as a whole, and in particular small farmers and small production. And in this particular case, it will continue to do so, not just here as in the government. by presenting the draft resolution will not go to the trailer of anyone. In fact, if you are reading — and I hope that you will not read the 19th Constitutional Government Programme, you will see that, among other things, you will see that you define, in the strategic objectives for agriculture, the guarantee of transparency in the production-transformation-distribution relations of the food chain — and you have created the PARCA (Agri-Food Chain Monitoring Platform) — as well as the promotion of the creation and dynamisation of neighbouring markets. It's in the XIX Constitutional Government Program! So it's not something that has come up now, nor have we gone to someone's trailer. No, sir! And, above all, we were not the tow of the Portuguese Communist Party! Mrs Helena Pinto, the measures proposed by the CDS are to create a set of incentives and an integrated programme. Madam Member, what it is not worth to want to do for the small farmer what is done for the big agriculture, for large-scale agriculture, which is what the honourable Member proposes. [[Now!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u39	You demand that markets, large commercial areas, large intermediaries between the producer and the consumer have small farmers' products. Well, that's what we don't want!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u40	No, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u41	What we want, Mrs Deputies, is that the small farmer, the small-scale farmer, sell directly to the consumer, without any intermediary. All the value of the chain must be for production and for the consumer, Mrs Deputy! [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] What you are defending is the intermediaries and, in this case, curiously, the great intermediaries. You can see where the Left Block has arrived, with its proposal. See, curiously, where the Left Block has arrived, with its proposal! Mr. Miguel Freitas, the Socialist Party's proposal has a lot of merit, but I think that the Socialist Party's proposal does not make sense in a proximity market. In particular, to seek a national strategy for proximity markets is to kill the 'gold eggs' of the neighbouring markets. It is that the proximity markets aim, above all, not the tourist, but the local consumer, the consumer of proximity, the urban consumer of rural production, which is sometimes even done within the urban area. That, Mr President, does not seem to me to be a strategy for tourism, because the tourist will not buy the potato or carrot from the local producer; the tourist can possibly buy, in one or another, small compotes or small items more transportable. But the objective of the proximity markets is for local consumers, it is for consumers with their own producers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u42	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say to Mr João Ramos that I believe that the parliamentary activity of any party, in this plenary, must be unique and exclusively dependent on what the government does is extremely reductive and depreciative to all of us. I am sorry that you think so, because the PSD does not see it and will never, never, ever stop having a voice here, whenever you think it is necessary, as long as it is necessary! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u44	Who marks our agenda is us and not the Communist Party! [[PSD applause.]] I also say to you, Mr Ramos : to hear a speech in which the key words were « to control », « to condition », « to restrict », « to impose» and « to force», never, will be the way the PSD sees what it wants agriculture to be. Control producers, condition sales prices, restrict markets, impose rates and force anyone to buy, never, will be the position of the PSD! [[PCP protests.]] The PSD knows that it is enough to show the Portuguese and foreigners the quality of our products and give our producers conditions of sale so that there will always be success. For us, Portuguese agriculture is first of all the party interests, My Lords! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u45	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate on the first item on our agenda. Before we proceed with the debate on the following point, I will give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves to announce the entry into the Bureau of two legislative initiatives. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u46	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions Nos 1393 / XII ( 4 ) were introduced into the Bureau ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1394 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the barrier and island islands of Ria Formosa and on the Ancão peninsula ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u47	Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the second point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of draft law No 809 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of active transparency throughout the Public Administration ( PS ). To introduce this legislative initiative, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the plenary, for the third time in this Parliament, comes the initiative aimed at extending the obligations of the Portuguese Public Administration in the area of transparency. It is a just cause, for which we have been beaten, and we are afraid of being beaten, indeed, from the beginning. The Constitution of the Republic enshrines the duty of transparency — it celebrates, today, years and this coincidence is happy! — the ordinary law managed to implement the Constitution in 1993 by an extended consensus with the PSD in the circumstances of that time, and we have a consistent practice of applying that law, we have a competent body — the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents (CADA) — and we have hundreds and hundreds of decisions that have given priority to freedom of access, to the detriment of the secret. The secret chases us, historically because we had a dictatorship that basically also settled its activity and, on the other hand, because even in the electronic age there can be electronic secrets. What we are proposing — it must be said and known — was basically stated and submitted to this House by the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents itself. We do not think there should be a war of territories in this matter. There are two committees, the data protection and the transparency protection, both discuss the two questions, but each one its territory: to one, to the light; to the other, the darkness that protects the secret of personal data. And this division is right, we don't participate in territorial wars, we're not from CADA against CNPD, nor from CNPD against CADA. Debate is on this subject, I could, and I will do it, offer the merit of the cars, with a note, only. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has just conveyed to me that it is the majority's understanding that this diploma may benefit from a discussion in the Constitutional Affairs Committee. I think it is a sensible, balanced position and it will deserve our consensus. Why? Because everything we propose can either be extended or diminished. If it is understood that the accounts of the Public Administration should not be online, although they may be requested side by side, we will not be against this proposal from other Members of this House. If it is understood that the methods to be used by the Administrative Documents Access Commission should be limited, very well. The only thing I would like to leave here publicly registered and declared is that this project inserts a chapter into the law that is already in force, Law No 46 / 2007, and therefore the restrictions that are foreseen therein also apply to the whole set of active publication obligations we foresee. We therefore want an auspicious debate that culminates with a good law and, preferably, an extremely extensive law of consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u49	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with two praises. To know: one, by the theme that the bill brings to us, which is an interesting and important issue that also concerns us, which is that of transparency throughout the Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u52	...and the other, because the initiative is the PS. Most often complains that the PS does not have a project, an idea, nothing to present, that when we receive a PS initiative, we treat it immediately with all the democratic affection. [[PSD laughter.]] In the meantime, Mr. José Magalhães, I remember that this is the third time, although with different clothes, that the PS brings this issue to discussion. It is said that we review in many of its principles, whether it is the advertising of information, whether the clarity that is required in the transmission, whether the ease of access that citizens have to have to the relevant information, whether it is the creation of something that may be the portal of transparency or something similar, including that of the way of control, through CADA or CNPD. All solutions seem to us, I would say, workable, good work plans. However, as you also know, in absolute defense of a principle, apparently we may be dealing with others, principles, those which also have constitutional consecration, namely that of data protection. In fact, not said by us but by other entities, particularly the National Data Protection Commission, there is a concern here that we feel, and I believe that with some reflection we can share, with regard to this protection even in areas of sovereignty, where data crossing can prove imminently dangerous. Therefore, and repeating a little what I said, on the part of the PSD we do not want to let « with the bath water the child is ordered», we want this important issue, although susceptible to improvement, to be discussed at home. Therefore, if the proposing party accepts that the diploma should be lowered, without a vote, for discussion on the specialty—and apparently it will be so— we believe that it would be a happy idea. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the draft law which Mr. José Magalhães brings here on active transparency throughout the Public Administration, he used a non-existent term calling for this discussion to be "descripted" in committee, but I think that neither his initial intervention, when establishing a confrontation between the National Data Protection Commission and the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, had so little encryption, nor so little the content of the initiative, that I would like to discuss with him. in fact, the principle is reasonable and it is clear that we will do all the necessary debate, but I would like to leave you three questions about the legislative initiative that we are discussing today. The first concerns the need itself. Does this initiative respond to exactly what need, when certain margins are exceeded in relation to sensitive data from citizens? The second question concerns the total ignorance of the Personal Data Protection Act. How does an initiative of this nature ignore a law of this nature? Oh, my God! It is that you may like it more or less, but it exists. The third order of doubt, if I may, concerns the PS's own intention. If this project does not have all the conditions to go to the end, I would like to ask you if — if — if, if... — the PS government exists again, that is really to move forward? Concerns: Article 3. the draft law provides for the obligation to publish almost all documentation of the Public Administration. There's nothing left! Finally, we could almost talk about voyeurist temptations, of which I give two examples. First, point (e) Acts and decisions effectively before third parties. Information subject to secrecy, commercial or industrial secrecy or even classified information shall not be disclosed. Do I follow the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission? Yes, sir! That is what I am doing, because this matter relates to fundamental rights. That it may remain on the net the administrative act which, and I continue to follow examples of the same opinion, gives discharge to a patient of a hospital, or which gives an order of hospitalization in a hospital, in addition to the list of civil servants and all their salaries, for example, seems to me that all this is a matter of great sensitivity which cannot be understood lightly, when it is asked to reduce the cristcation in this discussion. Mr. José Magalhães, when the warning is made that there is a risk of listings with sensitive personal information from citizens here, that is to take it seriously. And, in our understanding, enough lists. We're sick and tired of lists! The third question, and to conclude, is the following: you assign to CADA the monitoring, monitoring, evaluation of all this complexity that is set out here in the bill. I would like to ask by what means does CADA want to do all this? Under what conditions? But I also leave you with other doubts you well know. It is not a question of establishing a dichotomy here — you know that even we understand that each and the National Data Protection Commission should walk in the direction of a single committee — but I leave the question to you: 7 of the 11 elements of CADa have political extraction, two of them are, in fact, Members of this House. I believe that this matter, with all the demands it supports, would deserve a quite different entity from that of CADA, because of its own composition. That is why, Mr President, we will certainly do all the discussions without cliché. We cannot ignore in any way the risks of this initiative, either with regard to access to sensitive data from citizens or with regard to the strengthening of the competences of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, with the reservations we well know and which, at least on our part, we do not want to give up. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u55	I now give the floor to Mrs Teresa Anjinho for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, I believe that for the third time (the first in 2011 and the second in 2014 ), with more or less lines—and, fortunately, with fewer lines compared to the 2014 version— today, we are debating, in summary, by the hands of the Socialist Party the possibility of creating a transparency portal, as well as a first step, introducing a new model of public information management, according to themselves, more adapted to the new era. Today, as in previous debates, the CDS wants to make quite clear two notes which it considers most relevant to highlight in this headquarters, one more positive and one more negative, or critical. First of all, we have always been, we are and will be advocates of the value of transparency in the exercise of public functions and, of course, of all the initiatives that promote or strengthen it in a balanced way. We recognize that there is indeed a great concern — and this concern, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is not only national—with advertising and access to information, curiously in both directions, in the broad sense, and in the restrictive sense. And we also recognize being at stake an essential factor in defending the democratic state, its institutions and its regular functioning. More: we follow the proposer's views on the importance at this level of the use of information and communication technologies, essential pillars in the strategy of administrative modernization. However, and here is our second most critical note, in view of the fact that we are faced with new areas that pose new challenges, whether in matters of protection of rights or in terms of security of the State, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, with the scope of the diploma that touches the entire Public Administration and a very large set of documents, which lacks any reservations and any safeguards, while we do not want to completely depart from a more mature reflection that has already been announced here, we cannot fail to express our well-founded doubts about the need to guarantee parallel to the value of transparency, which can never be understood as an absolute value, the protection of other constitutionally guaranteed values, such as the protection of privacy of private life, associated with the protection of personal data. In this regard, I cannot fail to refer to the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, which is indeed critical of the fact that Mrs Cecília Honorio has already listed here, mainly due to this lack of weighting and balance of the different principles and values in question. In short, we note the effort here, Mr President, by the Socialist Party which, by examining past debates, sought to overcome the objections made, and I quote, « reducing the reform to be carried out to the essential, to transparency». It seems to us, however, that, in this effort, perhaps they have over-exaggerated essentially, simplifying something which is, by its very nature, complex, generalizing matters which undoubtedly require a more specialized look and a more rigorous realization, particularly on behalf of the State of democratic law itself. In other words, as the National Commission points out, the aim of promoting the right of all citizens to clear, transparent and up-to-date public information is to put the initiative at risk, not only the fundamental rights of citizens, but also the State's own information security. And I have not even touched on other matters related to regulatory rigour or even the means that are necessary and which call into question the effectiveness and objective of the diploma that is underlying here. Having said this, we certainly welcome the intention that, as a applicant, I confess, Mr Deputies, to wait a little longer for the Socialist Party, but we have serious reservations about its implementation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u57	Mr António Filipe now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr José Magalhães has already noticed that in this debate all speakers refer first of all to the good part of the legislative initiative and, secondly, to the bad part. I'll be no exception. I would therefore begin by saying that, in fact, the general principle underlying the initiative, the principle of transparency, is a stimulant principle and I believe that it is estimated by everyone and that it has indeed had a very interesting legislative development, as Mr rightly pointed out, since the 1989 constitutional revision and the law on access to administrative documents in 1993, which is indeed a very relevant legislative event in our country. The second aspect of agreement is that this discussion should not be clichéd. I must say that the honourable Member has not made a great contribution to saying that we have, on the one hand, transparency, CADA, and on the other hand, darkness, shadow, CNPD. In fact, it's not like that. What happens is that there are fundamental rights that need to be reconciled and, of course, the right of citizens to transparency and the duty of the Public Transparency Administration must be reconciled with the fundamental rights of citizens to privacy, in particular with regard to their respective nomination documents. This has to be reconciled and can't stop being. Well, what happens is that, in so far as the Socialist Party's bill conceives the provision of information by the Administration via the Internet, on a public portal, from our point of view, it is likely to invade the privacy of citizens who interact with the Administration. This is because we cannot conceive of the idea of public administration being on one side and the citizens on the other. What happens is not that! What happens is that there is a natural interaction between the Public Administration and citizens and therefore all the information available here will be likely to invade elements, nominal information that does not have to be publicly accessible and whose accessibility should be effectively mediated by the CADA. In fact, that is why it has been created to solve problems of compatibility between the duty of transparency and the right of privacy that some citizens will have in certain circumstances. In fact, this legislative initiative, in some way, would fail to balance, obviously, this conciliation in favour of replacing the principle of transparency, an exaggeration in the exercise of transparency which could be confused, as Mrs Cecília Honorio said very well, recently as some voyeurism in relation to documents in the possession of the Administration. Some examples of this excess have to do with, for example, the obligation to advertise preparatory work. You can imagine what this would represent in relation to the work of the parliamentary groups. The honourable Member had an idea, prepared a preparatory document for a possible bill of the Socialist Party, presented it to his peers and their peers said: « O José Magalhães, see there, this cannot be quite so... », but it was already on the Internet, because it was a preparatory work. You would probably have been the first to put him on the Internet, but that was your problem. Now, regardless of your will, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group should make available on the website of the Assembly of the Republic a draft from Mr José Magalhães only because it was made an exaggeration, in fact. It's an exaggeration!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u59	Even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u60	And, therefore, there is a need here to weigh the cast, essentially the cast. That's what's at stake. I would like to mention one last point, Madam President, and I am already far over time. This list would fundamentally alter the role of CADA, i.e. the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents would no longer have any problems with regard to the accessibility of documents, because they were all accessible, and would only become a kind of provider of the internet user. In other words, he simply checked whether the cast was complete or not, because the problem of citizens' access to administrative documents was solved, because it was all on the Internet. Mr, it is, in fact, excessive. This initiative needs to be calibrated and for this we welcome the drop of the bill to the Commission. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u61	The Bureau has the inscription of Mr José Magalhães, who still has time. He then has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thank you for your comments. I believe that a good debate has begun here, which can be a good outcome. Don't be afraid! Today we know more about the U.S. Administration than we know about the Portuguese Administration. Why? Because President Obama launched a movement, the movement of transparent administrations, to which 65 states joined. Portugal must do the same. We have all these horrible things Mr.António Filipe has mentioned, namely preparatory work on the Internet and the Assembly of the Republic demonstrates the application of good principles. In the past, citizens have come to ask us for bills. Today, at any time of day or night, we use our projects and also opinions given by the entities in full text, in format. Doc, in format. pdf. That is the future, absolutely none at all! An article that is now in the law already allows the Public Administration to publish everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u63	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u64	Of everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u65	It's classified!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u66	Everything, except, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, what the law itself... And we do not want to repeal this law in any way and, as we know, general law does not repeal special law and therefore does not go through the Chinese head that we want to repeal any law in this matter. But I said in Article 6. This law, we have occasion...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u67	But what Chinese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u68	Chinese history, of course! I am a bit like Mr Duarte Marques said a few days ago in the Committee of Inquiry into BES. Mr Duarte Marques spoke of Ali Baba as a thief, and I speak of Chinese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u69	Chinese is for António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u70	Article 6. that of the law, which is in force at this time, already says that documents whose information may call into question internal and external security are subject to the prohibition of access or access under authorization. And, further on, we see that documents in secret of justice are subject to their own legislation, in the same way that the commercial register has its own legislation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bans are already here, the search for balance is our goal and our polar star. And they believe that in 1976 and 1989 no one believed that it was possible for a CADA to function, effective, with citizens not having to say that they want the documents, asking only « I want access to document x, I want to know about how the parish board works such or such, the municipality, the central administration». This, which is now reality, was considered an extravagant and almost impossible thing in Portuguese Portugal. We have improved, we have improved collectively and we can still improve more, with balance, with weighting and with strict respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u71	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u72	So, Madam President, let's go to work. Thank you for your contributions. Perhaps we have taken a good step forward today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue our work with the third item on our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 795 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Integrates road fatality as a new objective of the municipal safety councils — makes the first amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July establishing the municipal safety councils ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 838 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July incorporating domestic violence within the objectives and competences of municipal safety councils ( BE ). To present the PSD and CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Carina Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS present this bill aware of the responsibility of this House, of the Assembly of the Republic, in matters relating to road safety. The path followed here by this House has been of great attention, of much follow-up, of dialogue and collaboration with all the partners who at the same table, with the same vision, with a lot of objectivity, intend to face these problems, because to defend life it is about. It is encouraging to note that issues such as criminology, marginality and social exclusion are already covered by the municipal safety councils established in 1998. We could not fail to consider these bodies to have a focus on these matters — it is the one that is closest to the citizens and to the problems. I remember that we are in the European decade for road safety. A concerted action between central and local administration is essential. in a brief view of the last decade in the country, since 2003, 10 years ago the number of deaths in road accidents was 1356 victims. In 2013 the number of fatalities was 518. These figures well illustrate the way our country has travelled to this level. The work should not, however, end in the analysis of the numbers. There are many subjects that deserve everyone's reflection and widespread combat, especially when we realize that a large part of the fatal victims come from accidents in urban areas today. The raids, according to the report of the National Road Safety Authority in 2013, closed numbers, are responsible for the death of 144 of 518 victims of mortality on these roads. The number of deaths at pedestrian level was 95, and within the localities there was the death of 70 peons. with regard to road sinequality, it is necessary, then, to trace local goals. It is essential to integrate road safety into municipal safety councils, which is also justified by the fact that a number of municipal road safety plans are being drawn up and — let us say it again without fear — what was optional must become mandatory. It was a commitment made as Coordinator of the Road Safety Working Group in this House and in this bench we will do everything, and I know that in the CDS too, so that this work will soon see the light of the day. It must be coordinated and homogenized at national level: the homogenization of traces, from vertical signaling to horizontal signaling. Today, each street has its mark, each passageway is marked on street A and on street B differently, in the various municipalities of this country nothing is harmonized — geometry and materials. It is necessary to make cities more intuitive, safer and truly serve the needs of citizens, finally, harmonious. I know that Members, local authorities, police, governments and citizens, we all share the same goal, which is to save lives on the road, and today is another step in that direction. Together with this initiative, a Left Block bill was drawn up on the integration of domestic violence as one of the subjects to be treated equally within these bodies. Personally, I believe that the battle is the same, by safeguarding human lives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u75	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Viegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Road safety has been a constant concern in our country. In fact, this is a cross-cutting concern for all governments, who have committed themselves effectively to respect for the reduction of fatal victims. Certainly, all who are on these benches remember the times when it was said that our country lived a climate of genuine civil war on the roads.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u78	Today, reality is another, developed investment has taken effect. Today we have more road management, more relief to victims, more and better human behaviour, more vehicle control and better infrastructure maintenance. It is thanks to all this change that we can say that during the decades when the number of vehicles rose by 200 % between 1989 and 2008, we were able to reduce the number of passengers on national roads beyond the commitment to the European Union. But the fight against difficulties continues. Not all problems have been overcome and therefore it is not yet time to cross their arms. We know that there are particular realities that still need to be addressed. If we want to make an in-depth assessment of the data of sinequality, we realize that. The CDS, in an equation designed to understand the data signals, does not forget two important indicators that can be withdrawn from the 2013 National Road Safety Authority's annual report. First, 144 of the 518 fatal victims were caused by crash accidents. This is, therefore, a fact that should deserve our weighting and analysis. Second, the number of fatal victims due to runoff was 95, and within the localities there were 70 of the pedestrian deaths. One of the biggest problems we still face is thus located in urban areas. More than ever, it becomes necessary to make municipal assessments that set goals. There is a need to act and uniformize rules on bearings. Only with a detailed analysis of local agents, and with the correction of problems at the level of urban circulation, can we reduce the weakness in this road environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u80	Also at the level of pedestrian crossings it is necessary to act. However, and once again, a realistic action must meet local specificities. Standardization of rules is thus desirable, especially when established standards are adaptable to local realities. This will be another contribution to reducing the number of victims on roads that are municipal guardianship. As regards particular realities at the level of the municipality, we recognize that some steps have already been taken, particularly with regard to municipal road safety plans, but we must take into account that the number of authorities implementing these plans is very low. With this return on road safety, we believe that we can improve what is done at the municipal level, since the scale of the current state of affairs that municipal road safety plans have for accident prevention is recovered. The amendments now proposed thus improve the dimensions to which the municipal plans are intended, because there will always be a need for a body to carry out a frequent evaluation of municipal realities, so that the actions provided for in those documents can be updated and improved. Considering that the municipal safety councils are the bodies that best assess the issues that can compromise the stability of the police, it makes every sense that an assessment of issues that can compromise road safety is made at that location. Many are the facts that prove the usefulness of this amendment, but there is one that clearly shows itself. I speak to you about the presence in the council of the police officers of the geographical areas to which the municipalities correspond. As we know, all of the agents of GNR and PSP highlighted for transit constitute an important knowledge of reality at the level of signaling deficiencies, marking deficiencies or maintenance deficiencies. It is here, therefore, a added value that cannot be lost,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u82	... until we all have heard, so many times, comments that within the Public Administration there are many elements capable of solving concrete problems. With this proposal, we give the municipalities the opportunity to benefit from the knowledge of the numerous human resources involved in the area of mobility. They can now make a very positive contribution to reducing victims in urban context. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We follow the relevance of the introduction of road fatality in the objectives of the municipal safety councils, in this amendment to Law No 33 / 98, with the recitals and with the reflection presented here by Mrs Carina Oliveira and Mr João Paulo Viegas, responsible for the initiative. in the same sense, what the Left Block believes is that within the framework of this Act we must introduce domestic violence within the framework of the competences and objectives of these same municipal safety councils. We do so in the recognition that the defence of public security, which is our responsibility, is based on the finding that it is a cross-sectional reality and with multiple aspects but that it also requires the analysis and evaluation of specificities and that, therefore, the municipality is the space of excellence to make this assessment and this search for answers. in this sense, we understand that the introduction of domestic violence into the competences of these councils will allow an assessment of proximity, will allow better articulate the responses of proximity and will allow to deepen some of the answers that already exist from the fight against domestic violence in the municipal context, recognizing also the evidence that security forces are present here and, in this sense, are a more-value indispensable to the knowledge of reality at the level of each council. We understand that we need to give ever more consistent answers to this heinous crime. In the light of the data in the annual internal security report, it must be acknowledged that almost all crime involved, including violent and serious crime, continues to increase as domestic violence rates and indicators continue to increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u86	Our proposal is aimed at strengthening all possibilities of finding close answers to try to save lives also within the home. And that is why we are presenting this bill, which we intend to have all the conditions to be welcomed by all parliamentary benches. [[Congratulations on BE and on the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u87	Mr Jorge Fão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The municipal safety councils, when constituted by Law No. 33 / 98, had in their genesis concerns essentially focused on the issues of crime, marginality and other phenomena of social exclusion which, of course, were considered important and priority in the area of security in the municipalities. The specific issues of domestic violence, which are now brought by the Left Block to this debate and which will be addressed here by my colleague, Elza Pais, were not at the time the focus of the attention of these advisory bodies, as well as the issue of road safety, and all that is connected with it, was not in fact in the priorities of the reflection that the speakers had made at the level of the municipal safety councils. It really seems to us that, whether it is a matter or a matter, it is of relevance and, in my view, they will be welcome to be included in discussions within the municipal councils. with regard to road safety, at this time, were held responsible for this problem, essentially, the behaviour of the conductors, the issues related to the Road Code, with the action of the police and, in general, no other kind of factors were seen, which are mainly of municipal management and responsibility, such as urban planning, the tracing of urban ruins and the quality of the floors and the way municipal positions are organized and approved. Therefore, these issues, which today form part of a different thought on the problem of road safety, must be addressed, we understand, within the framework of municipal councils. The statistics themselves of road fatality prove that it is in the urban environment that is currently one of the main concerns of increasing the harmful consequences of this problem and therefore this issue must be addressed there too. So both bills are welcome and I think they will deserve approval. Specifically the PSD bill will also be a contribution that the Assembly of the Republic will make to improve this matter and substantially reduce the harmful effects of road-trafficking in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed two bills that aim to change the objectives and competences of the municipal safety councils, one on issues of road safety and the other on issues of domestic violence. If we take into account the objectives and competences of the municipal safety councils, we can already have a broader perspective on the security issues of the general population, on the one hand, and on the issues associated with combating crime and social exclusion, on the other. That is to say, there is nothing that prevents the municipal safety councils today from speaking on these matters, from discussing and examining the specific issues of each of the councils on these issues which are proposed today. Therefore, from the point of view of the CFP, we will follow these proposals that are on the table and we see no drawback in which the municipal safety councils can also, more specifically, focus on these matters and on these concerns. We recall that its creation results from a proposal from the CFP and that the municipal safety councils are advisory bodies that promote the articulation, information and cooperation between various entities, which intervene and have responsibilities in matters associated with and related to the safety of populations and have, over these years, had the power to issue opinions on these matters. And we also consider, and this is the balance sheet we have made, which, in fact, have allowed for a more concrete, more specific assessment and analysis of these issues related to the safety of populations. Therefore, in a synthetic way, we understand that today nothing prevents the municipal safety councils from speaking on these matters, at the same time as we do not see any disadvantage that can be expressed in the law, with regard to their objectives and competences, a more specific reference to the two issues that are under discussion today, namely road safety and domestic violence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u91	Mrs Elza Pais has just signed up for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would rather that these two projects had been discussed separately, because it would give more time to deepen one subject and another. Therefore, I will refer only to the project of the Block on the Left, welcoming the Block on the presentation of the project, because strengthening human rights proximity interventions, and human rights especially women, because they are the main victims, is always a good initiative, which also joins the creation of municipal plans for equality, where the component of domestic violence has been integrated since 2007. Therefore, any strategy towards strengthening proximity interventions involving the authorities, involving the security forces, involving the living structures of the community, will always deserve our approval, especially in a picture, as Mrs Cecilia Honorio said, in which, although violent crime is not increasing, domestic violence persists at high levels. We have done much to combat it, throughout several governments, but it is, in fact, urgent to change and strengthen a strategy where, in my view, proximity translates, surely, effectiveness in this fight. And 40 women who died every year in domestic violence must demand that we all join in strengthening strategies that are effective at the level of this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u94	It seems to us a good strategy, yet insufficient, others may be associated with it, and of course they will count on our support in this which is a fight where the PS has always said 'present'! » and will continue to say, today and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u95	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in a brief speech, I would like to express our satisfaction at the quality of the debate around these initiatives, particularly regarding the recognition of the importance of the inclusion of domestic violence within the framework of the objectives and competences of the municipal safety councils, in this same understanding that, when all crime rates fall, domestic violence maintains or rises its participation rates. Therefore, it remains an absolutely priority fight against a crime that, as we well know, basically reaches women and the elderly and, in this sense, it was good to recognize the great understanding that we still have on fundamental matters. In this sense too, Mrs Elza Pais, I would like to safeguard that there is this demand for articulated responses; we have the municipal plans to combat these forms of violence, we have also the network of solidarity councils and it is clear that this response is another joint response of the various entities in the field, within the municipality, in the search for a knowledge of proximity, of responses of proximity. And with all that we need to do — they are right! — it is a step we take and it is good to see that they recognize it as an important step. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u97	With no further inscriptions, this third item on our agenda is concluded. We will continue with the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 834 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the supported income scheme, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December, establishing the new rental scheme supported for housing and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May, and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November, and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PCP ), 839 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change the income scheme supported for greater social justice ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ) ( BE) and 836 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater social justice in the new housing-supported lease regime and giving greater autonomy to autonomous regions and municipalities as part of their application ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014 establishing the new housing-supported lease regime and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PS ). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to send a strong greeting to the residents of the social neighbourhoods that are present today in the Assembly of the Republic, accompanying this debate. A strong greeting for its fight against these gross increases of income supported and for the right to housing, greeting that we extend to all residents of the social neighborhoods who have been penalized with the application of the supported income regime, which led to gross increases in the value of income, unhappily to these residents. It is precisely because of these injustices and because of these high income increases that were imposed by the supported income regime that the PCP brings to the discussion today a bill that aims to introduce fairer criteria in the calculation of income value, translated into affordable and sustainable amounts by residents, taking into account their incomes. Therefore, we propose that the net value of the revenues taken be accounted for rather than the net or gross value in the calculation of the income value and that the premiums and allowances of non-permanent character be excluded from the calculation of the income of the household aggregate. For the elderly, we propose accounting, for the purposes of calculating the income of the aggregate, of a partial value of the pensions they collect, where the value is less than three national minimum wages, and that the value of the maximum income is less than 15 % of the income of the aggregate. We also propose the elimination of all the clearance mechanisms provided for in the current supported income scheme, which all procedures are in accordance with the regulations of the owners and the Civil Code, and also the restoration of the autonomy of the democratic local power and autonomous regions with regard to this matter, allowing the creation of specific regulations by these entities, adapted to their concrete reality. We bring here today this bill because PSD, CDS and this government promised, in the Assembly of the Republic, that a new, fairer, supported income regime would be created with more affordable values for the residents and this proposal was not met. It is that the regime we have today is a regime that keeps the injustices and, above all, has introduced clearance mechanisms, jeopardizing the right to housing by these residents. We must also not ignore that over the years the Government has not made any substantial interventions in the dwellings, which, of course, require maintenance and conservation in order to ensure their living conditions. He did not make these interventions and brutally increased the value of income, penalizing even more the residents. The CFP today brings this project to discussion in the perspective of being able to solve the problem that affects thousands and thousands of residents of our country. It is our intention to bring down this bill to the Commission without a vote, so that all parliamentary groups can submit their proposals and that we can all, once and for all, solve the problems of these residents, placing income with fairer and more accessible criteria for the residents. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u99	To present the bill of the authorship of the Left Block, Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The system of supported income, which applies to the housing park of the state and the authorities, was enshrined, as we all know, in a 1993 decree law, a deeply unjust decree which, as we all know, has not been applied for several years. More than once, the Assembly of the Republic recommended the revision of the supported income regime. Even knowing that the law would be changed, the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana) decided to apply the formula for the calculation of incomes, which led to incomportable increases for the overwhelming majority of the residents, who have made their protest hear, and very well. I also welcome all the residents here today in this debate. The Government, however, submitted a bill which gave rise to Law No 81 / 2014, which entered into force on 1 March. This new Law does not solve previous problems and poses new problems whose motivation is only one: prejudice against the poor. The current Law corrects an injustice in the formula for calculating the value of income, in fact, suggested by the Ombudsman for years, considering per capita incomes, but they maintain the injustice of considering the net incomes and not the liquids. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes all the difference. This little thing makes all the difference for those who take low incomes. The current Law continues not to hold public authorities accountable as masters in relation to the preservation of neighborhoods. The neighborhoods we talked about—and they are a bit throughout the country, from Guimarães to the South Margin—were abandoned for years by the IHRU and the works, in many cases, were carried out by the efforts of its residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u101	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u102	It's true, yes sir! But there is a central issue in this new Law, the evictions. It's a new law, but full of the oldest social prejudices, this is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The clearance becomes an administrative act, without guaranteeing defence conditions. And worse, worse: all families who have reached the maximum income value for three years—and reach that maximum value because they have managed to increase their incomes— also receive clearance orders! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, where can they see common sense and some logic in this principle? This is the principle of mobility, invented by this government, which wants to make social housing a ghetto. It's not mobility, it's rotivity, it's a very different thing. Who ensures that these families later have the conditions to pay an income in such a normal lease market? And also, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why are people away from where they have always lived, where have their roots, where have they raised their children? It's a completely unfair law. The Left Block presents a draft amendment which seeks to introduce social justice measures. I am glad that this House of the Republic agrees to bring down the draft laws to the Commission without a vote, so that a profoundly unjust law can actually be changed there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Idália Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also greet all the citizens who are here today, who know very well the reality of what we are talking about here. I'd say until you know this reality that we're talking about. Well, they're welcome to come. In December 2014, the Government approved a new rental scheme supported by introducing significant changes in the management of the rental of the housing estate belonging to both the central government of the State, direct and indirect, both to autonomous regions and municipalities, as well as to private institutions of social solidarity, when they have benefited from deep-lost public financial support. It is true that an outdated regime has been changed in the light of the so-called socio-economic changes that have been verified, which was inadequate to the existing reality. The need for their review was also evident, in the sense of having the capacity to respond to the challenges that each day passes, they put themselves in the country and all Portuguese. I recall the number of parliamentary initiatives on this subject, more than a dozen in this Parliament, which demonstrates not only the sensitivity of this matter as the urgency of changes. Unfortunately, the Government has chosen to disregard the detail of all Parliament's recommendations. With the favourable votes of the parties of the majority, and the unanimous rejection of the entire opposition, the Government's proposal came to originate a law which, although containing valid aspects, scurried several aspects of enormous importance and social scope. From then on, in the new income value calculation system, it began to consider gross monthly income as determining in the application of social housing support, with all the implications that result for a large number of families. Then, while recognizing the absence of a legal regime capable of meeting and regulating the specificities of the lease, some public officials have forced them to find their own regulatory and procedural solutions. It also does not recognise merit in regional and local housing policies, disregarding, in these terms, the autonomy that the law and the Constitution recognize to the autonomous regions and municipalities in the management of the heritage that belongs to them, clearly violating the policy area and the exercise of regional and municipal public policies. And the reality of regional and municipal housing policies is quite different from that which you know or do not know or fear to continue to ignore, because, with your law, regional and municipal housing policies are all less municipal. The law that you have passed is national, the regime that you have passed is national and the formula that you have approved applies to the whole country. Therefore, because of these inconformities, the Socialist Party once again presents a legislative initiative to amend the supported income regime, proposing a new regime that considers net income, not gross income, for the calculation of family benefits and that allows, within the framework of regional and municipal autonomy, the formulas and correction factors to be adapted to the different social realities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Law of December 2014, which the PSD and the CDS approved, was voted on with the votes against the entire opposition. You have removed the great public officials from the entire legislative process, they have put us completely out of the way, when they are the municipalities which, since 25 April 1974, have complied with the constitutional design of the right to housing. Good or bad, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the municipalities that throughout all these years have shaped and solved the problems of housing. But the PSD and CDS government, which ignores and disregards the role of autonomous regions and municipalities, has imposed a regime that does not safeguard the ability to comply with the design of housing and does not allow them to enjoy the freedom that the Constitution gives them. It would make sense that the gentlemen. and the honourable Members allowed the discussion of this diploma in the specialty, to analyze the obstacles of this Law and so that this House could provide the income regime supported by a greater capacity to respond to the challenges that, every day that passes, they place themselves in the country and in the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u105	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 81 / 2014 of 19 December came to establish the new rental scheme supported, came to establish objective, transparent and social cohesion parameters for the allocation of social housing. Founded in the various resolutions of this House, accepting the recommendations of the Ombudsman and supported in the diagnosis made of the situation of renting social cariz in Portugal, in particular by the study of the IHRU of 2012, the Government and this majority have fulfilled what they promised before all Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u107	Thus it was done and fulfilled, placing a final point on social inertia and insensitivity, especially responding in a clear way to the constitutional requirement to ensure access to condigna housing, with accessible and adequate income, to the families that effectively need and discuss themselves with situations of economic deficiency, for the period of time in which such needs occur. This new scheme—as it is recognised in the initiatives of the three parties presented here—is consistent with the needs of families' residence, is not arbitrary in the verification of the criteria for the award of leased lease, enhances the promotion of the mobility of families, making it possible to make the social housing park available to those who effectively need it, responds to the shortage and degradation of the public housing park and creates an exceptional scheme for the allocation of uncompetitive housing for situations of urgent or temporary housing need, such as cases of victims of domestic violence and social emergencies resulting from natural disasters or disasters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u108	It is also fair in determining the factors that integrate the calculation of income to be borne by tenants and families, calculated mainly according to the income of families and the family aggregate. It also values the composition of the family and the specificity of each element, including children, the elderly and people with disabilities living in the home.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u110	It still reduces the rate of effort. Today, PS, PCP and BE bring to the discussion three bills that, in good truth and save small ideological nuances, can be summed up in one. They intend to amend a regime which came into force exactly one month ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u111	Exactly! It's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u112	... and intend to do so - by going back, they want local authorities to be able to pass their own regulations, in order to adapt the present Law to the physical and social reality of their neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u114	But if the autonomous regions and local authorities maintain complete freedom, because they maintain complete freedom, to define their strategies for housing in their territories, in particular at the level of planning and management of their housing park, what the opposition parties want to introduce with this amendment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u115	The problem is the value of income!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u116	... but a derogation from the parameters of this regime and a retrogression to the result of the previous regime, how was the coexistence of multiple and distinct regulatory solutions from municipality to municipality, neighborhood to district, landlord to landlord, return to disparity of solutions, inequality in access to housing, de-updating income and degradation of the public housing park? Oh, my God! They also aim at opposition parties, for the purposes of determining the value of income, which take into account the net income of families. And we ask ourselves: in what other legal scheme of social support allocations do net income apply? Oh, my God! Is it, in particular, in Decree-Law No 70/2010?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u117	But I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u118	How does this social support differ from that of all others? And what is the justification for becoming less transparent in this case, more subject to less objective and less syndicable weighting factors and considering the net incomes of family aggregates? That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree with these measures which, as a rule, translate less fair and less speedy tasks. It would be a mistake to go back to the past and go back. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u119	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u120	Madam President, first of all, I would like to greet all those who are accompanying us in the galleries here today. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three diplomas of the PS, the PCP and the BE, which we are debating today and which aim to change the new system of rental supported, say that this regime is new. Indeed, he is so, so young that he is in force in our legal order only a month ago. Therefore, we are certainly not talking here about any weaknesses or non-operations of Law No 81/2014 because they do not exist, they certainly do not result from their application because obviously not enough time has yet been spent to make such assessments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u121	You've noticed it's not worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u122	What about the news? There are no news either! There is only one summary, a note of the proposed amendments which were presented and which have been plunged, in the specialty. They therefore do not bring any news and they do not come to solve any problems, because whoever solved them was this government, with the Law that you today want to see changed here. In fact, a recommendation for 2008 already referred to by Mrs Helena, the Ombudsman, which at that time called for the maintenance of progressiveity based on the total income of families has already been complied with. Otherwise: it was necessary to establish criteria and adapt this scheme to the condition of resources — it is envisaged; legislative homogeneity was to be defined in determining the technical price of fires — it was also envisaged; it was necessary to adapt the formula for calculating income supported by cases of greater social fragility, such as single-parent families or which integrate minors, persons with disabilities or over 65 years of age and victims of domestic violence; it was necessary to include important criteria such as the limitation of the duration of contracts and the clarification of the competent forum — it is also planned; finally, the introduction of the new weighting factor in the calculation of income, capital, that is to say, the number of people who integrate the family aggregate, which clearly results in better social justice in the applied income. These diplomas present different conceptions on certain aspects, which we respect but of which we disagree. We have already stated this in the field of specialty, however, recognizing the consistency of the positions assumed by the Left Block and the PCP. But we too are coherent, we do not change our mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u123	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I said that I recognized the consistency of the positions of the Left Block and the PCP in the matter under consideration. The same, unfortunately, can no longer be said and no longer applies to the PS. And why? Let us look at two examples. First example : on 4 February 2011 with the PS in the Government, Mr Marcos Sá said very strongly that « the government is finalizing a new law capable of targeting the gross income of families ». Now, in this bill, in line with what the Left Block and the PCP say, they argue that this calculation should be done on the basis of net incomes — there was the conviction! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u125	Second example: on 22 September 2011, already in the opposition and by the voice of Mr Pedro Farmhouse, said the PS that this regime should be adapted to the regime of the conditions of appeal. Now, the PS abandons its reference to the law of the terms of appeal, which it approved in 2010, because it has always manifested itself against the calculation of income based on net income.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u126	It's just consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u127	I'd say, the conviction is dead!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u128	It's just consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this surprises us. In terms of renting, we have the certainty: the PS, to change position, does not need much, just change leader. And as much as I learn a new direction for the country, the PS doesn't know how to walk. You've got days! Open... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Angela Guerra said now, in her speech, that the bills presented here, which intend to change the law in force—and the laws are to change, have a week or a month in force, because if they are wrong they have to be changed! — they bring nothing again. with regard to the Left Block, it is true, Mrs Deputy, because this bench has been beaten for years by the amendment of that 1993 diploma which is deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u133	And you tell the honourable Member that everything is planned. It's not all planned! In fact, it is a pity that the honourable Member has not referred to the point on waste, because I want to know the PSD's position on the regime on facilitating the eviction of a group of citizens and citizens in this country who are apart. There is an administrative decision of IHRU, which can even be delegated, because it seems incredible, at the porter of IHRU, to say that that family can be dismissed and has no right to defend it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u134	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u135	Mrs. Ángela Guerra, I was hoping that the honourable Member would come here to strongly defend the regime of rotation in the social districts. But you didn't talk about it, Mrs. Deputy! ... I only hope and indeed appeal to one more opportunity, in the field of expertise, to amend this Law. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I just want to tell you that you make a basic confusion around this whole discussion: housing is not a support, it is a right enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And that makes all the difference. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: unfortunately, the positions of the PSD and the CDS regarding this Act have once again become clear in this debate. The PSD and CDS consider that everything is okay, that there is no need to move, that there is no injustice and that people are living much better. Well, here are the residents. And what the residents tell us—and certainly they also told you—is that the income values that have been applied to them, and that this new Law will also apply, do not solve the problems of injustice, quite the contrary. Madam Member, does anyone live with gross income or lives with net income? Let's see what income people live with. In fact, when it comes to social cohesion, we should be guaranteeing to the Portuguese the right to housing, the right to housing that the PSD and CDS do not want to ensure when they introduce in this law a set of mechanisms that allow these people to be discharged from their homes. So what social cohesion is this? Oh, my God! What sensitivity is this to the right of these people to their home, which PSD and CDS-PP, in this debate and with the law that they have approved and imposed on the country, are they putting into question? Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that it is urgent for the CFP to dignify and defend the rights of these peoples. For the CFP, it is urgent to defend the right to a decent life, to a decent housing, a problem that your government, the PSD and the CDS have not resolved either. The right to housing must be guaranteed. Today we have introduced a bill to introduce fairer criteria in order to solve the problems of these people. This is our commitment. We will see what the commitment of PSD and CDS-PP is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u138	It's with the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u139	... if it is with the populations, if it is effectively defending the right of residents and the right to housing. That's not what you defended here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u140	The discussion on this item on our agenda is concluded. We will continue with the fifth point, which consists of the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 827 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Guarantees for credit borrowers to benefit from negative interest rates ( BE ), 833 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ban banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions ( PCP ) and 837 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the interest rates applicable to credit borrowers in a context of a negative reference rate ( PS ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is an old phrase, which, being beaten, remains true, which says that « a banker is a man who lends you the rain hat when it makes sun and takes it away when it starts to rain». It's the purest of truths. in this debate, we pay the reference interest rates, their evolution and we remember all the narrative that banks use on the markets: markets are governed by contracts and we must respect contracts and their stability. Therefore, when interest rates in the past rose and the credit to housing and consumption tightened up families, the banks said that there was a contract that should be met and there are markets, and markets are deciding how the interest rate is formed and what its value is. Now, having contracts, there were markets, we had no way of escaping from these premises. Now, we see exactly the opposite. We see that the reference interest rates are falling and Euribor to one month already reaches negative values. It is curious that the decline in interest rates led to a change in bank narrative. The banks now say that if the interest rate is negative, we must review the contracts and have mechanisms that protect the banks. Now that there are no limits to the rise of interest rates, they wanted to create limits to the fall in interest rate, preventing families from having access to any relief in their credits, either housing or consumption, on the left side of the Block there is an essential first defense: that the contracts signed freely between the bank and the families be fulfilled and that the benefits of the negative rates are ensured to be reflected in the decrease in the cost of the credits with the families. This is the first premise. I am glad that the tow of this debate, whether the Government or the Banco de Portugal, has come to say that they accept this idea. Good! We now have the consequence and hope that the banks will listen to this position. Second premise: there is some type of credit that was indexed at a reference interest rate, so there can be no detail, no small letter, no contract that will say that if the reference rate is negative, then within the limit, it will count zero in that contract. It's not acceptable! Since there are no ceilings on interest rates, we cannot accept that contracts, although freely signed, do not have negative interest rates for families. We don't accept that. Therefore, we propose that it be borne by the law exactly the same as in the past that has already been done with the rounds of interest rates, that are satisfied with the essential and that, with a reference interest rate that makes an evolution to the negative, this is fully impacted both in the existing contracts and in the new contracts, which is not, once again, that card brawling of the contract game in which, in the end, the bank always goes out to win. That's what we don't accept. It is in defense of people and families that we present these proposals of the most basic justice. If the market works, since it is in favour of families, then they have to benefit and this benefit cannot be passed on to the bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u142	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today presents a bill prohibiting banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions. This is a legislative initiative aimed at protecting bank customers by defending them against the recurrent abuse of the bank. It is unquestionable evidence that, between banks and their customers, there is a strong asymmetry of negotiating power in favour of the first ones. This asymmetry has allowed banking institutions to change their interest rates, spreads, prices of certain services, bank commissions values, etc. for their sake. , translating this practice into a degradation of the rights of users of banking services. in a context where the Euribor indexer is historically very low, with Euribor at one month already on negative ground and Euribor at three months and six months can also achieve negative values in the coming months, banks were preparing to change the conditions of credit contracts, preventing customers from benefiting from this evolution of indexers. In particular, some banks had already expressed their intention, in the housing credits indexed to Euribor at three or six months, to consider these indexers equal to zero, charging the entire spread. thus, the banking institutions, which are financed at very low rates, which may even become negative, do not want to reflect this circumstance in their customers’ contracts, becoming the only ones, I repeat, the only ones! — beneficiaries of interest rate developments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u145	This possibility has been eliminated for days by the Banco de Portugal in determining that credit institutions must comply with the conditions of credit and financing contracts and cannot introduce restrictions on the variation of indexers. Despite this guidance from Banco de Portugal being positive, it is accompanied by a suggestion that we consider completely unacceptable: that of the banks may condition future credits to individuals or companies to hire interest rate swaps, financial instruments of high complexity, incomprehensible to the overwhelming majority of bank customers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP bill, solving the problem of negative interest rates is, however, much more comprehensive. With regard to new contracts, it prohibits banks from entering clauses that allow them to unilaterally change not only the interest rates but also the other contractual conditions which result, for example, in changing the price of services or the value of commissions. With regard to contracts already in force, the CFP bill determines that any changes to the conditions entered into may occur only with the agreement of both parties, thus preventing such changes from being imposed by the banks on their customers. But even with the agreement of the parties, these changes cannot result in a single loss to the customer. This legislative initiative of the CFP, in the current framework, defends the rights of bank customers, whether private or business. However, we must not fail to reaffirm that the interests of the people, businesses and the national economy can only be fully defended if the State takes control of the banking sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u146	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time the Socialist Party presented this bill to defend the unlimited application of negative interest rates in credit contracts to housing and consumption. It is that, in the face of a real problem that has affected families and businesses, it would be important for parliamentary sitting parties to assume their position on this problem. Therefore, PS does not understand the silence of CDS-PP and PSD in the face of this real problem that has affected families and businesses. It seems to us a complicity silence for banks and banks, leaving customers who have been affected or who may be affected in the future to a secondary level. We know that one-month Euribor is in a negative field. We know that in the near future Euribor will be in a negative field, so it would be important to present a proposal that would introduce some legal clarity in the law in order to defend customers, in order to reflect the negative interest rates in housing credit contracts and consumption. We know that about a month ago, some banks have unilaterally altered housing credit contracts. We also know that these same banks have unilaterally altered prices in the contractual relationship with customers. This means that the Banco de Portugal should have reacted longer, but it reacted this week and it is legitimate to deduce that this reaction of the Banco de Portugal arose only because it was scheduled for this debate today and after knowing the positions of the opposition parties, particularly that of the Socialist Party. He said recently that in good time the PS presented this bill, because the circuit letter of Banco de Portugal does not solve all the problems associated with the application of negative interest rates in credit contracts to housing and consumption. To approve the Socialist Party bill means to give legal clarity to the law, it means to reduce the possibility of litigation between the bank and the client, i.e. to approve the Socialist Party bill means to give more legal certainty to customers. Certainly, the CDS and PSD will agree with the PS. Adopting this Socialist Party bill means that banks, which have already unilaterally altered credit contracts for housing and consumption, are obliged to redeploy their customers, which is not guarded by the Banco de Portugal. It is another advantage of the Socialist Party bill and certainly CDS and PSD also agree. To approve this draft law of the Socialist Party also means defending future credit contracts for housing and consumption, because the Banco de Portugal suggests that these credit contracts become associated with contractswap, which means that when, in the future, a credit contract for housing and consumption is concluded, banks will impose a parallel contract on customers for the interest rate to be indexed to financial instruments derived from interest rate. Therefore, banks will resort to these suggestions from Banco de Portugal and, in parallel with the loans contracts for housing and consumption, will force customers to sign a swap contract. The PS is against this possibility and this is the third major advantage of the Socialist Party bill in relation to the Banco de Portugal circle letter, and here too we are sure that the CDS-PP and PSD agree with the Socialist Party. These three advantages of the PS bill are of great importance to ensure the legal and commercial security of customers of housing and consumer credit contracts. Therefore, we are curious about the position of the CDS and PSD, so that they come out of this compromising and complicity silence in relation to the banks and say what they think about this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u148	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a debate of this importance for the lives of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese families, there must be a logic of information and clarification that can bring to light the expectations and desires of these same families. in this sense, it should be pointed out clearly that the Banco de Portugal has recently transmitted its understanding to credit institutions on the application of Euribor interest rate credit contracts that assume negative values. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when so many speak in opacity and lack of transparency, this orientation of the regulatory entity is clear that it leaves no doubt. Mr João Paulo Correia, Member of the Socialist Party, I also point out that the position of the PSD bench — and on my side speaking — is exactly that which was assumed by the Minister of Finance, with all clarity, last Friday. And it was in a firm defense of the interests of all Portuguese with credit for housing, without tibias, without doubt. in this sense, I mean, with all the sadness, that I find that the opposition, instead of adopting a responsible, constructive stance, in such a critical matter, did nothing more than walk the tow of the foam of the days, empolating news, causing social alarm. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this attitude has a name: populism. It sometimes seems that we are facing a contest of ideas within the opposition without any contribution to solving the problems that truly affect the lives of the Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u150	It is important to mention this because we are before a legislative process in which the regulator acted and indicated the way to market agents; we are not before any additional interpretation or clarification of the law in force. This is in the law, resulting from the law. Mrs. Members, the Civil Code clearly tells us that it is not possible to amend any type of contract without mutual agreement between the parties. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the discussion of these bills I cannot but make a recommendation to Mr João Paulo Correia regarding the intervention you have made. Mr President, you are in tune in time, in the way and read again the bill that the Socialist Party has tabled. In addition to being completely emptied of content and practical effect, it does not solve the problems or limitations to which you referred. Do not mix garlic with bugs, trying to throw into public opinion an idea that is distorted and wrong. What you said is that the Socialist Party project is not true, it does not correspond to the text and makes no sense. With regard to this matter, in fact, the recommendation of the Banco de Portugal, through the circular letter issued, goes precisely in the sense of being clear, objective and evident the obligation to comply with the law at a time when a matter which is sensitive, unpublished and has to do with the fact that the indexer that is normally used in credit and financing contracts potentially reaches negative values in the case of Euribor at 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months, possibly in the short term. Mr President, I also recommend that you check the type of interest rates and the type of indexers that are used in most contracts, particularly at the level of housing credit and consumer credit in Portugal. If you check this, your intervention, once again, loses much of the meaning. What did Banco de Portugal say this week? He came to say that the banks in the face of a situation that is unprecedented must strictly comply with the law. In other words, they must comply with the conditions already legally established in the contracts, which must reflect the variation in the amounts charged to their customers. The Banco de Portugal also says that there are no minimum limits to these rates. That is, it says that the limit is not zero, that is what it is, that and this has to be reflected in the contracts that exist with families and businesses. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about contracts with individuals but also about contracts with companies. in the background, the Banco de Portugal has made clear and clear the obligation to comply with the law, which will benefit consumers and users of banking products. This means cheaper and more affordable contracts and financing for families and businesses. This is what we care about, and it's the juice that comes out of here. I also wanted to talk about a point that is relevant: the doubt that there is about how this reduction of rates can be reflected in future deposits. The Banco de Portugal itself has also spoken in the past. in these cases, capital is always guaranteed. What does that mean? It means that, within the limits, people do not receive interest but do not pay them either. Therefore, depositors can be absolutely sure about this. It is important to say that, contrary to what the radical left does, we do not abhor the bank, much less we do not abhor the private banks. We understand, yes, that a strong, solid and effective reporting framework is needed to ensure a relationship of trust and effective and real protection of the interests of Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u153	For a second speech, Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: to the extent that the parties that presented initiatives have to be the last ones, I speak already. This debate has had a great advantage: it has alerted us all to serious problems in the field of housing credit. These serious problems are not related to the present moment, nor to the contracts that have already been concluded with the taxpayers, nor to the issues raised by the honourable Members. Members of the opposition to unilateral amendments; they deal with what this same legislation can produce, which is an unsustainable increase in spread. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to do an exercise of memory, so I would ask you to accompany me, to understand the seriousness of this situation of the increase in spreads. In 2008, at the highest peak of the housing credit crisis, the Euribor rate reached 5 %. The Portuguese families were helped to overcome this crisis because they followed these very low Euriborspreads rates, as you know, and which today prevail: 0, 2, 0, 3, 0, 25. We saw that in the advertising of the banks. At present, we are faced with a new fact that will substantially alter the lives of the Portuguese: the Euribors are very low but the spreads are very high. in a very short past, it was not in an ancestral past, in another century, it was exactly in 2008, Euribor was 5 %. If five, six years from now, Euribor is back to 5 %, 5 % and if spreads are 3 % — and I leave you a small example — a housing loan of €150,000, with a 3 % spread and a 5, 5 % Euribor, a benefit that today costs 600 € to a family is going to cost €800. It was therefore for this reason that this debate should alert us. This is what we have to do with future housing credit contracts, and for the mechanisms and tools we have to arrange to alert Portuguese families who may face serious problems with the rise in the interest rates of Euribor. As far as this is concerned, I have already left here an alert and a tool: we must create stress processes in simulations that warn families that increases in Euribor of 4 %, 5 % and 6 % can create unsustainable situations for these same families. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u155	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP bill affects the problem of negative interest rates, but it is not limited to that, it is much more comprehensive. It is a bill that prohibits banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions. On this matter neither the PSD nor the CDS said a word. [[PSD protests.]] Question: do the PSD and the CDS agree that banks can, at their great pleasure and benefit, change the contractual conditions of contracts that are in force or insert clauses that will allow them to change in the future? That is the practice of the banks, and on that, the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen didn't say anything. In front of our bill, there is a clear, clear option: to defend the rights of bank customers or to defend the interests of the bank. The PCP is unequivocally on the side of the defense of bank clients' rights and, therefore, we have presented today this bill, as we have in the past presented a wide range of bills aimed at defending bank clients. Most parties, PSD and CDS, today have another opportunity to show which side they are on. At the time of the vote on the PCP bill, we will see how the opposition is positioned on this issue. We will see who your commitments are, whether it is with the interests of the bank or whether it is with the rights of bank customers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u157	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the argument of the majority is interesting. The right was telling us, in the past, when interest rates went up, that nothing could be done because the market was working. Now, that interest rates come down and that the bank wants to prevent families from having access to that benefit, they say that we should leave nothing as it is and that the bank should be able to prevent interest rates from assuming negative values, in the sense that the new contracts should have a contractual change and therefore the power bank, as they say freely — as if there were freedom from those who have all the power to have money for those who need money to make a credit — say that there can be in the new minimum limit contracts. No, this is changing the rules. It's literally changing the rules. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If there is an interest rate indexed to a reference index, for the old contracts it must be taken forward what is contracted and for the new contracts what must be said in the law is that, if there is a reference index, it must be respected, there should be no minimum limits. It seems to me that this is what most people don't want to be placed in the law. by saying that it is the will of the contracts between the banks and the families, it gives all the strength to the banks in the new contracts to put one of those clauses with small latrines that says that, if the reference index is negative, then it is worth zero. Now, they're going to borrow from each other at negative interest rates. In other words, they will finance negative interest rates and will even have an increase in their benefit, from their profit margin at the cost of negative interest rates, at the cost of families. That's not acceptable. They have already taken a step, which was to respect the existing contracts, now it is necessary to take the whole step: to say that the bank cannot change the rules of the new contracts vis-à-vis those which were the rules in force and that the bank cannot, where things are less effective, even when dictated by the markets, have the support of the majority and the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u159	Like the ladies. Members know, there are still a number of motions for resolutions on which time is not allocated, which I am going to say: motions for resolutions 89 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique in the Field of Defence signed in Maputo on 4 July 2012, 90 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique in the Domain of the Authority and Water Safety, signed in the city of Maputo, on 6 July 2012, 92 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the 2005 Protocol on the Convention for the Suppression of Illicit Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation adopted in London on 14 October 2005, 102 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the International Convention on Civil Liability for Pollution Caused by Bank Fuel adopted in London on 23 March 2001 and 108 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic frame. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 203 meetings, to which 2 are added, by 205 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting vote No 264 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of Armando José Cordeiro Sevinate Pinto ( PSD and CDS ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u160	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote is as follows: « Armando Sevinate Pinto was born in 1946, in Ferreira do Alentejo, having died on 29 March 2015 at the age of 69. He's devoted his whole life to agriculture. He graduated from Agronomic Engineering at the Higher Institute of Agronomy of the Technical University of Lisbon, worked as an agronomist in various public and private institutions, national and European. He was Minister of Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries between 2002 and 2004, but he was as a technician who would like to be remembered the most. He said with humor, that he so characterized it, that the work of an agronomist for more than 40 years, could not be minimized against two years as a minister. His work at the service of agriculture has experienced numerous projects in different areas of rural and agricultural development and in several stages, revealing in them a high patriotic sense and a deep dedication to Portugal. Part of the current agricultural success in Portugal results from its work, from the transmission of its deep knowledge and from the fight against false fatalism that the sectors of land and agri-food had no future in Portugal. And he was right. It has always opposed the most pessimistic theses for agriculture and its repercussions on urban society, elevating the positive aspects of the national agricultural sector. He used to deny rural prejudices and constantly defend the profession of farmers. In June 2014, one of his stories in the Public Journal wrote: « To be a farmer is to choose a profession that gives meaning to life, which gives pleasure, freedom and independence. Not always financial independence, but almost always independence of character. A character shaped with the help of nature, with the fresh breeze of the morning with the smell of the earth, with the sunset that softens the hard life of the fields and gives free encouragement enough to face the difficult day-to-day farmers. Do not keep on seeking. ” in his day-to-day, he reminded us of his thoughts about farmers, stating that they have one of the « noblest, free, useful, gratifying and independent human activities inserted in the production process and that he has the merit of being one of the few that depends entirely on the survival of our species. Do not keep on seeking. ” His human qualities, such as disarming sincerity, total authenticity, or warm affection, associated with his discretion, made Armando Sevinate Pinto an illustrious Portuguese and an exceptional human being who from the family to the profession extended his knowledge with gratitude and friendship. It gave the best of itself and left a huge legacy of knowledge, of knowing, of thinking and of being able to do agriculture in Portugal, which is truly unique and which must be continued. It also leaves a witness of commitment and lucidity when it performed functions in Portugal, or at European level, in the defense of the modern and prosperous Portuguese rural world and in an agricultural and competitive country. The members of the Assembly of the Republic lend their most expressed regret and honour to Eng. Armando Sevinate Pinto for his work and dedication to the service of Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members will then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of national agricultural products in advertising campaigns and in proximity markets ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens and votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1374/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an integrated and effective strategy to enhance local actors and products with a special focus on proximity markets ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens and votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1389 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Estimulation to proximity markets, short-marketing circuits and profitability of production activity ( PCP ). Mrs. Members, the PS requested that we vote separately on point 6. We shall then vote on points 1 to 5 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 6. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u162	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u163	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u164	Madam President, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on the three draft resolutions we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u165	Mrs. President. — Be registered, Member of the Commission. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1390 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to dynamize small-scale products and proximity markets ( PS ). The CFP asked that we vote separately on points 2 and 5 and then together on the other points. We shall therefore vote on points 2 and 5 of the draft resolution. [[Voting was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE and the Greens, and with a abstention from the CFP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1391 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected by votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on an application by the PS for a discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 30 days from Bill No. 809 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of active transparency throughout the Public Administration ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, the bill will not be voted on, downloading to 1. the Commission as required. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 795 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Integrates road fatality as a new objective of the municipal safety councils — is the first amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July establishing the municipal safety councils ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we just voted down to 6. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 838 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July incorporating domestic violence within the objectives and competences of municipal safety councils ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Bill No. 838 / XII ( 4. ( a ) down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will now vote on a request by the PCP for discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 834 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the supported income scheme, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014, establishing the new rental scheme supported for housing and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May, and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November, and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[At the moment, demonstrations of public protest were recorded in a gallery.]] They cannot manifest themselves in the galleries and must therefore withdraw. [[Pause.]] We will stop voting for one minute until you retire. [[Continuation of demonstrations of public protest present in a gallery.]] I ask the authorities to get the protesters out as soon as possible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u166	Madam President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u167	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u168	Madam President, you will be speaking here eight days tomorrow about the dignity of the Assembly of the Republic, which has led you to the President to make an intervention which has merited the applause of the opposition. Madam President, the gallery where protests have been recorded is intended for the guests of the parliamentary groups, so I would like to know, precisely on behalf of the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic, who invited, when invited and how the protesters were invited. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Madam President, if the President cannot make this announcement today, please state publicly at the next plenary session that will take place on Wednesday, who was the Member of Parliament or group invited these people. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] If that is not the case, Madam President, I would like to request an extraordinary Leaders Conference. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u169	Mr Nuno Magalhães, the Bureau will know who invited the protesters in the gallery. Mr João Oliveira also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u170	Madam President, we save this work because we give the information: people were in that gallery at the invitation of the CFP. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u171	Take it easy, listen to the end! Members of the CFP gave an indication to those people that they could not manifest themselves in the galleries. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u172	They gave that indication personally to those people. That happened... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u173	The gentlemen. Members want to impose the law of vocabulary and, if that is your intention, I will conclude these conditions. Members of the CFP personally indicated to those people that they could not manifest themselves in the galleries. Despite this indication, this has happened and, of course, the CFP Parliamentary Group must regret that this has happened. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u174	Mr President, I am going to give the floor to the honourable Members. Members who have signed up, but I would like to say that vocabulary is a right of Members, but it is forbidden to the people present in the galleries. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mr Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u175	Mr President, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to record this attitude of Mr. João Oliveira, clarifying the House and all who was the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal that invited those gentlemen who had just expressed themselves, but to insult the Members present in this House, because that was the case. Therefore, sign this position of the Portuguese Communist Party. But, Madam President, what I would like to highlight, and by supporting the speech of Mr Nuno Magalhães, is that what happened here must be considered by all parliamentary groups. We have come to record — and the President knows that this has also been discussed in the Conference of Leaders — an attempt by some parliamentary groups, in particular the opposition, to instrumentalise both committee meetings and plenary meetings with these kinds of invitations to people to attend the discussion of matters they know, in the past, that are controversial and may motivate not only demonstrations, but above all attitudes like those we have attended here, which have been insulting to elected Members democratically. I would like to make a call, Madam President, to ensure that the opposition parliamentary groups are consistent with the reflection they have made here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u176	Mrs. Members, I do not fail to note that throughout all these years of Parliament, I have never felt, as President of Parliament, that demonstrations in the galleries could do well for democracy, the country and Parliament. They don't! It is always with great regret that I, who love freedom, record these demonstrations. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. In view of the rejection of the PCP requirement, we will generally vote for Bill No. 834 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the supported income scheme, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014, establishing the new rental scheme supported for housing and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May, and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November, and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We will now vote, also in general, Bill No. 839 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the income scheme supported for greater social justice ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 836 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater social justice in the new housing-supported lease regime and giving greater autonomy to autonomous regions and municipalities as part of their application ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014 establishing the new housing-supported lease regime and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and the abstention from BE.]] The general vote of Bill No 827 / XII ( 4 ) is followed. ( a ) — Guarantees for credit borrowers to benefit from negative interest rates ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 833 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Bans banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 837 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the interest rates applicable to credit borrowers in a context of a negative reference rate ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 89 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique in the Field of Defence signed in Maputo on 4 July 2012. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 90 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique in the Domain of the Authority and Water Safety signed in Maputo on 6 July 2012. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 92 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the 2005 Protocol on the Convention for the Suppression of Illicit Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation adopted in London on 14 October 2005. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The overall vote on motion for a resolution No 102 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the International Convention on Civil Liability for Pollution Caused by Bank Fuel, adopted in London on 23 March 2001. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall also proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 108 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Members, we shall also proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by supporting the International Film Festival of Troy ( PCP ). The PS requested a separate vote on the two points of the draft resolution. Let us therefore vote first of all on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u177	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u178	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u179	Madam President, I would like to inform you that the Members of the Socialist Party elected by Setúbal will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-02.u180	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we must also vote on paragraphs 1 to 33 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 17, 18, 19, 24, 25 and 26 September, 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 30 and 31 October, 20, 21, 24, 25 and 26 November, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 17, 18 and 19 December 2014. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary session will be held next Wednesday, 8 April, for 15 hours and will have the general debate on the proposals for lein. 291/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Officials and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 173 / 98 of 26 June 2013 in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 292 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Official Auditors, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and 293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Order of Official Accounting Technicians into the Order of Certified Accountants, and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 452 / 99 of 5 November, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. Law No 303 / XII ( 4 ) will also be generally appreciated. ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. Assessment of the Annual Report of the Supervisory Board of the DNA Profile Database and the Regulation and Accounts Report of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication for 2012. Before the session is closed, I want to leave all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen and all the Portuguese wishes of Easter happy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 1 minute.]]
