ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 1444 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the public invitation to tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Collective Transport Society of the Port, SA ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u3	Mrs. Members, we turn to agenda item 1 with a joint assessment of the projects of lein. 829 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September, which establishes the exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and defines the terms applicable to the regularization of urban areas of illegal genesis during the period established therein ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) and 783 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September — Process for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis CFP ), in general, and draft resolutions No 1379 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and compliance with the legislation applicable to them ( PS ), 1434 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of incentives for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, including the admissibility of application of the planned tax regime for urban rehabilitation with the necessary adaptations ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1438 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a fund for the financing of the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( AUGI ) ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u4	Mrs. Members, as you know, the parties responsible for the initiatives have another 1 minute. To present the PSD initiatives, Mr António Prôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of initiatives relating to the process of reconversion of urban areas of illegal genesis. This reality of occupation of the territory without proper urban licensing still originates during the New State and has remained a little reality throughout the country, in dozens of municipalities. In 1995 ( 20 years ago), verified the legal inadequacy and with a view to regularizing these situations, the law establishing the exceptional regime for the conversion of the Urban Areas of Illegal Genesis is developed and approved. Among other aspects, a deadline was set until 1999, I repeat until 1999 for the AUGI to have a conversion title. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members who have spent 20 years on the entry into force of the law, what happens is that we are discussing today the fifth amendment to the Law, in the context of a history of previous amendments in which the rule has always been, above all, delaying deadlines. in this legislature, the Assembly of the Republic, faced with the exhaustion of another deadline without the problems of conversion of the AUGI were solved, understood by setting up a working group to carry out a detailed analysis of the constraints that they have encountered for the persistence of these problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to highlight the work done by that working group, either by the commitment of the Members of all parliamentary groups, or by the quantity and quality of the information collected and the hearings held. in this context, allow me also a word of recognition for the quality of the coordination attributed to Mrs Eurídice Pereira. The PSD, within this framework, has always been committed to seeking consensus solutions and that they were beyond simply adjusting the deadlines or the temptation to point a single path to the solution of a problem we know to be complex and with several actors. This is why, with satisfaction, we present, together with the CDS-PP and the Socialist Party, a bill that seeks to respond to the various problems found, of which I stress: the forecasting of mechanisms aimed at simplifying and streamlining procedures; the establishment of measures to overcome some difficulties in the functioning of joint administration bodies; the implementation of a training plan involving several entities with a view to ensuring uniform application of legal provisions; greater accountability and involvement of all parties; the adoption of mechanisms that encourage the completion of processes, or municipal initiative, or particular initiative, through cost-sharing; the forecasting of better monitoring of conversion processes and the adjustment of strict deadlines necessary for the implementation and development of these measures. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are a number of other initiatives that the PSD cannot follow. Regretting that consensus was no longer extended, we refused, however, the way to compromise the allocation of financial resources without predicting its sustainability or defending generic solutions that can be popular but that, in practice, do not point out clear paths. For this reason, we prefer responsibility and effectiveness. Aware that, in the context of the complexity of these processes, the financial component is relevant, we intend to present with the CDS-PP a draft resolution recommending to the Government the weighting of incentives to urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, including the application of the planned tax regime for urban rehabilitation, with the necessary adaptations. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that, in the context of the speciality discussion, we will present a proposal to extend the use of the municipal fund for environmental and urban sustainability for works in urban areas of illegal genesis. This proposal reflects, more than mere vague statements, an effective compromise to facilitate the resolution of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, urban areas of illegal genesis are also an urban problem but they are, firstly, a problem of people. Focusing on people, it is essential to make a commitment to solving their problems. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the consensus reached, because it is this consensus that conveys confidence and stability to people, particularly when it comes to their housing, from the roof that houses their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u6	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u7	An important consensus also because it is about planning and valuing the territory, a consensus that must mean a commitment and commitment of the parties involved...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u8	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u9	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, a consensus which must mean a commitment and commitment of the parties involved, among which the authorities play a decisive role. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u10	I'm asking the ladies. Members preparing the interventions in accordance with the time available to them. I'm sorry, but it'll have to be like that. To present the PS initiative, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of proliferation of so-called urban areas of illegal genesis is controlled but seems to be far from solved. After two decades of the entry into force of a law designed as exceptional, and despite the successes achieved, we wanted to know what prevents conversion from being fully realized. The working group set up within the framework of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, which was pleased to coordinate, he heard, almost unanimously, that Law No 91 / 95 is a good law, and therefore is not the reason for the withdrawal. It is true that, being good to the Law, he has already obtained several extensions of time and is in the process of getting a new one, for another 6 years, which is justified to be the last. This working group consensualized in nine points what it believed should be legislative intervention at this stage. They are: simplification of procedures; smoothing of conversion processes; articulation of legal regimes; predicting mechanisms to encourage conversion; greater accountability of those involved and monitoring of existing reality; creating better conditions for the functioning of joint administration bodies and training and information of those concerned. In addition to these aspects, another constraint not directly related to the legislation itself was identified. I am talking about financial difficulties that make it impossible to participate in the infrastructures necessary for the regularization of urbanization works. All these findings were validated by the parliamentary groups and what we sought to do was to express in the bill that we signed the response to the identified requirements, the result of a consensus work. But the PS Parliamentary Group also wanted to express its understanding of what the State should be responsible for the fragile financial conditions of many of the families with their first and only homes in the AUGI. As a result, we present a set of recommendations to the government that we believe is difficult not to accept, considering the reasonableness of the testimony of the municipalities and the need of the state to commit to greater involvement and repair situations that were not able to resolve in the past, recommendations that, in essence, constitute incentives to urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis. That is why we recommend that the implementation of fiscal and emolumentary incentives be evaluated; that the extension of the tax regime applicable to urban rehabilitation should be considered; and — fundamental! — to consider the creation of a support fund and encourage urban conversion. Furthermore, the latter recommendation is intentionally made in an open manner so that it can be possible to accept scenarios that identify themselves as viable, either with support from Community funds or with other financing options, and the fund itself may have more than one source of funding, which complements them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we appreciate the result of a structured work, which can be more enriched in the field of specialty, especially since the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has already spoken and the recommendations that leave us generally seem to have, and at first reading, space of reception. Exactly because we welcome a second round of appreciation, we will not make the proposals under discussion impossible by refraining from those which seem to us to be reducing or doubtful but which we are available to deepen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u12	To present the initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mr José Lino Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of the AUGIS, as it is called, is a matter of greatest importance because it affects the private property of people but above all because we are talking about the right to housing of thousands of families. It is known that Portugal, over the last decades, has suffered tremendous real estate pressure, creating areas of expansion throughout the country, particularly in the neighbouring municipalities of the major cities centers, but has done so in an unhealthy way. In fact, some of these expansion areas have been promoted by real estate speculation, largely at the expense of the shortage and need for housing but often also with the satisfaction of the lack of supervision and municipal initiative. Portugal has come to have the largest illegal neighbourhood of Europe, which today is one of Sintra's largest urban parishes. in the 1980s, it sought to stop the phenomenon of clandestine neighborhoods and batches, notably through the end of the possibility of the writings by « individual avos » and, in the 1990s, it was created, and from our point of view, Law No 91 / 95, with an exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( AUGI ). It is worth recalling that the objective of this Law, which was, on the one hand, to discourage and block the emergence of new AUGI and, on the other hand, to encourage, through an exceptional and temporary regime, the integration and conversion of existing areas into legal areas and with quality of life, has been achieved to some extent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u14	Law No 91 / 95, as some studies of the specialty claim, was in fact capable of returning to local policies, municipalities and owners the responsibility for their conversion, in a logic of proximity to the phenomenon of the AUGI ; it accelerated the resolution of the ongoing processes, which benefited from measures and rules introduced by an exceptional legal regime; and reiterated the duty of urban conversion, which, in the first place, corresponds to their owners and actors in a process whose origin is illegal. But, despite this incentive, this process still presents a morbidity in its development and deficiencies that need to be overcome. And the example of this is that we are talking here about the fifth amendment of the deadlines. The two most relevant aspects for the reason of the maturity of this process, which was dragged by four extensions of deadlines, as I said, and which were reflected by the majority of the experts and entities heard by the working group that made the identification of legal conditionalisms, are the need to concentrate solutions of greater agility and simplification of procedures and the distribution of works and costs of infrastructure and urbanization. As regards the agileisation and simplification of proceedings, it is clear that the Law of the AUGI is already out of date in the light of the amendments to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime ( RJEU ), in particular the version updated by this Government, which already provides solutions for greater agileization and simplification, which are perfectly adaptable to the AUGI. For this reason, the draft law now being introduced is revised by Law No 91/95 with regard to the modification of procedures and deadlines, especially for the conversion of individuals on their own initiative, in order to simplify their processing and make it faster. As regards the distribution of works and the costs of the implementation of infrastructure, it is a matter which must be worked within the framework of the municipal strategy. in this field, let us not forget that there is already the legal possibility that municipalities can approve the reduction of urban rates corresponding to conversion operations, as well as the reduction of compensation payments, thus reducing the costs with conversion. Chambers may also, through urbanization contracts resulting from the conversion of the AUGI, share the costs of urbanization works, which have been saved, of course, certain assumptions. But we want more. And because most of them want to contribute to the resolution of this real problem, we are presenting a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the weighting of solutions and incentives for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, in particular, as mentioned, the admissibility of the implementation of the planned urban rehabilitation regime. This majority is, in fact, involved in the commitment that the planning of the territory is indeed a short-term reality. And because land and soil management and planning is a sovereign exercise, it must be a priority and must go through the bet on urban rehabilitation and regeneration. This bill aims to establish solutions of greater agility, simplification and certainty, making the conversion procedure faster, and, responsibly, recommends to the Government the necessary weighting and analysis of measures that can allow tax benefits that already exist for urban rehabilitation. It is, in fact, a responsible way to solve a problem that affects thousands of families, to which we cannot and do not want to turn our backs. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u15	To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis has been shown to be morbid and complex. The approval of the Law of the AUGI, as it was known, brought an impetus in the process of conversion and legalization of them, and since then there has been a commitment of the directors and administrative commissions in this process. But the truth is, the process is far from over. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know the origin of the AUGI, which dates back to the period of fascist dictatorship and is related to the need of thousands and thousands of families in our country to seek the resolution for their housing problem, a reality which is felt, above all, in the metropolitan areas, but, about 20 years after the approval of this Law—and we also consider that it was very positive and had quite good results—the problem persists and requires an answer. If it is true that this Law was indeed very positive, it is also true that we understand that the main problem does not arise from the Law but from a set of constraints that exist and that effectively prevent these families and residents in urban areas of illegal genesis from moving forward and completing the process of conversion and legalization of the AUGI. For the CFP, the process of reconversion and legalization of the AUGI should not be eternal, on the ground that the expectations of its residents wishing for the final resolution of this issue and for having their housing fully legalized. The completion of the AUGI conversion process also contributes, in our perspective, to the avoidance of new soils. Therefore, the CFP today brings to discussion, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill with concrete solutions to improve the Law. For the CFP, it is necessary to eliminate some constraints, expedite procedures and extend the application of the AUGI Law, allowing the ongoing conversion processes to process until their completion under this diploma, enabling the owners of the property right, who have the duty to recover, and the public entities, who have the necessary powers and competences for intervention and support, to continue to make every effort to finalize the process of conversion of this significant area of urban space and soil property. In order to speed up and speed up the process of conversion of the AUGI, we propose that municipal chambers be given the possibility of dividing the buildings in proximity that integrate the AUGI, when the joint administration has not been constituted. in the set of hearings that were held by the working group that was created in the framework of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, one of the main obstacles identified for the development of the conversion of the AUGI, by numerous entities, was that of the economic difficulties experienced by many owners. With a view to eliminating this constraint, we propose a reduction in VAT to the reduced rate, in particular for studies, works of infrastructure, green spaces and construction of equipment, in the context of the process of reconversion of the AUGI of the responsibility of their administrative committees. This proposal thus allows for a significant reduction in the charges to be borne by the owners. We accept the possibility of changes to the delimitation of the AUGI, taking into account the greater knowledge of the local reality that exists today, provided no new matrix articles are included. We also propose that the deadline be extended both for the establishment of the Administrative Committee and for the acquisition of a conversion certificate. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the contribution of the CFP so that it is finally possible to complete the process of conversion and legalization of the AUGI. from our perspective, they are not closed proposals. We accept the possibility of other valid proposals — and there is, of course — and therefore, for our part, there is full availability to deepen the debate on the proposals under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u17	Also to present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The urban areas of illegal genesis (AUGI) were the form found by the populations, especially in large urban areas, to solve the serious problem of access to housing during the Fascist regime. Let's celebrate 41. the anniversary of April 25 in two days. On 25 April, he granted rights and guarantees, in particular the right to housing. Unfortunately, legalization and the provision of conditions in these areas is not yet completed, it is a social need that needs to be resolved. The Assembly of the Republic has been quite active on this subject. The working group set up to study conditionalisms to the conversion of these areas found several legal issues, but also a very concrete conditionalism: the lack of economic capacity of the owners to share in the payment of the infrastructure necessary for the regularization of urbanization works in the AUGI. In fact, in this regard, I take advantage of welcoming the working group and all its activity and I want to say that it seems to me that this is a conclusion that all banks have withdrawn from this process. Thus, the Left Block presents a proposal for the establishment of a fund for financing the conversion process of the AUGI, a proposal which is also common to other banks. This fund must be linked with the authorities involved, because the authorities cannot be alone in this process, as has been proved over the past few years. In our view, it will be the solution to the granting of deep-disbursed support to the board of directors of the AUGI, duly framed. That is the only way we can finally conclude the conversion of these areas. In fact, we can impose several rules and deadlines, but without public investment, without effective capacity for action, it will not be possible to complete this process. This is the great lesson of the last 20 years. This is what the working group allowed us to conclude, and this is also what reality has shown us. Since the publication of the AUGI legislation in 1995 it has been possible to take significant steps in the conversion of some of these areas. however, many problems have been solved. We are talking about citizens and citizens who, during all these decades, with various difficulties, have also contributed to the recovery of these neighborhoods in these areas where they live. It is a desire of these populations to legalize and rehabilitate the place where they live. Democracy has therefore also a debt to these people, which is already time to settle. That is why we have also previously put forward proposals here for the extension of the deadline for implementing this law, which have been approved together with others. The time has come, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, to resolve the situation in the real life of these people, who, like all of you, have been able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to be at the heart of our decision. It is time to ensure that constitutional obligations, in particular the right to housing, are fulfilled. We do not reject any of the other proposals, and we would like to mention them. However, we do not subscribe to the bill submitted by PSD, CDS and PS, because, as you know, there are two questions we do not agree with and therefore do not follow them. The first relates to the transformation of tacit deviations into tacit deviations and the second concerns the withdrawal of individuals from the possibility of requiring the camera to fix the AUGI, in particular its perimeter and its conversion mode, now that individuals have only the power to request changes. That is why we do not subscribe to this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u19	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u20	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we do not reject any of the other proposals that are brought here. The deburocratization and active intervention of the authorities are decisive for the completion of the process. We hope that this House will also vote in favour of the proposal to set up a specific fund for the conversion of the AUGI. Only public intervention makes it possible to overcome the constraints that this matter has faced. We now hope to take this step towards the final resolution of the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u21	Mrs. Members, we conclude the debate on the first item on the agenda on urban areas of illegal genesis, and now we move on to the second point, which consists of the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 812 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums due by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants by the second amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), 463 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Financing of Public Higher Education ( PCP ) and 885 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of university tips for proven economic deficiency and introduce the exemption of propines in the academic year 2015 / 2016 ( BE), in general, and of draft resolutions 1297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of standardized regulatory standards of the criteria for fixing fees and emoluments charged by higher education institutions ( PS ) and 1437 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enlargement of the universe of higher education scholarships through the revision of the « study grant regulation to higher education students » ( BE). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings to this plenary two initiatives that seek to respond to problems felt by higher education students. In fact, these are not revolutionary measures, we recognize them, they are not rebalancing, they are not a reconfiguration of the system, they are, through surgically oriented initiatives aimed at the particular problems of family members, that we can actually help to make the difference. The first measure we are presenting concerns the form of payment of propines. For many family aggregates, the requirement for full payment of the tip at the beginning of the school year is excessively costly for its budgets. For this reason, many higher education institutions already agree and accept the phased payment. Looking back, for university higher education, we see that four institutions accept the payment in 10 benefits, one resort to nine benefits, four other institutions process the payment in six benefits, four accept the payment in four benefits and only a few faculties maintain the three benefits scheme. What we believe is that there must be at least a guarantee of a minimum number of phased payment benefits which, in fact, creates a value that is appropriate for each family aggregate. from there we propose the establishment of this value in the seven benefits, which is an average of this reality in university education but which, unfortunately, in some institutions of the polytechnic is not consecrated. I must also say that, obviously, we do not think that this is an incontrovertible number and can therefore be worked in the specialty. The philosophy is: in all institutions, a reasonable minimum of benefits must be guaranteed for students and their family members to be able to ensure the payment of their tips. It seems to us that a surgical amendment can, in fact, make a difference in the quality of the form of payment by students, helping family budgets. On the other hand, on the subject of fees and emoluments due to academic acts, we believe that there is a great disparity in the application of these taxes in the framework of public higher education. It does not mean that, with this, we want to restrict university autonomy, far from that, it only means that one should work towards creating relatively uniform criteria that can do two things: on the one hand, defining what should be considered as being included in the value of the tip. By definition, academic certificates should be considered at the beginning of the student's payment. Secondly, it is also necessary to have the ability to standardise criteria in a relatively stable way, and in all higher education, if someone who attends the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança does not have a different treatment from those who are at the University of Évora or the Azores. We really want uniform criteria for the setting of rates and emoluments due to academic acts. Other initiatives by the Communist Party and the Left Block are also under discussion today, for which we cannot follow all the solutions, in particular some which seem to us to debalance the financial situation of higher education. But in relation to one of them, in particular, I would like to say that, even if we are not able to follow the text completely, in fact, it is an important debate, that of the review of the social stock exchange scheme, for which we are available to work and to think of it in order to suit the incomes accounted for and the values to be paid to students to the needs that, at present, the family aggregates already face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u23	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor to present the CFP initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public higher education has been targeted, for decades, by chronic underfunding, by the hand of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP, who look at education as a expense, reject it as constitutional law and guide it as a business area. The financing of public higher education institutions based on general criteria ( such as the number of students ) does not take into account the specific needs of each institution in a deliberate deresponsibility of the State, which aims to reduce public funding. Between 2010 and 2015, PS, PSD and CDS-PP cut more than 300 million euros only in higher education. in the same period, families began to pay more propens, more fees and more emoluments. The State's deresponsibility in financing corresponded to the direct responsibility of families whose education costs have increased 75% over the last 10 years. Portugal is from countries in the world where families most pay for their children to study in higher education—on average, EUR 6600 per year, including tips and frequency costs. Portugal is in the second place of the ranking of the propinas, which was passed only by the United Kingdom — although in this country the scholarship students do not pay the propinas and in Portugal our students are obliged to do so. These costs are a barrier to access to education. Thousands of young people are denied the realization of the dream of studying in higher education. for the fifth consecutive year, the number of candidates for higher education decreased and only 44% of students enrolled for national examinations applied to this level of education, which is a very serious backwardness! Subfinance, propines and other frequency costs, the deep limitation of school social action and the small number of students with scholarships distance the young people from higher education and trace a path to their elitistization. Today, public higher education lacks students and lacks funding and both are responsible for the political options of PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the debt interest is paid seven times more than it is transferred to public higher education in one year. The solutions that the PCP has defended over these four years, which have always been rejected by PS, PSD and CDS-PP, would have been a fundamental contribution to ensuring young people's right to study in higher education. It is urgent to respond to the financial asphyxiation imposed on public higher education institutions and the solution is to strengthen public funding in the short term. The CFP proposes a new financing policy ensuring adequate funding for the specifics and requirements of the different public higher education institutions, not devalued the policy. It is urgent to significantly increase the number of scholarship students and the value of scholarships as a guarantee of access to higher education, on equal opportunities. We propose the strengthening of the public network and the response of public higher education to the country's economic, social and cultural needs and propose the end of the tips. We reject the ideological project of successive governments, and of the current PSD Government / CDS-PP in particular, of disfigurement of the role of teaching, of its elitistization and of the mercantilization of knowledge, because higher education is one of the fundamental levers for the progress and development of the country, because it is a factor of individual and collective emancipation, because it is the responsibility of the State to guarantee, on equal terms, the possibility of frequency in higher education, because it is constitutional right, pillar of democracy and pillar of economic and social development of the country, it is not business, it is not privilege of some! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u25	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss essential topics for higher education students and the Left Block presents two concrete proposals on scholarships and tips. This year fewer than 3330 social action grants were awarded, compared to last year, although there were more than 1,000 candidates for these scholarships. With more people in need of support and social action, there are fewer than three thousand students who were entitled to the scholarship. The process had already begun badly with the computer blackout that occurred in January, which delayed the analysis process and embarrassed the country. In Portugal, thousands of students are waiting for months to know whether or not they are going to have a scholarship, but having to pay accounts in the meantime. The problem is not new, it has been discussed many times, and it cannot even be imputed to social action technicians, who are few and have many processes to analyze. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to give concrete answers to these problems. We present here some answers, we propose some changes, which, although small, would be a big step to respond to students in difficulty. Today, social action does not reach everyone you need. We propose a small change to the formula for calculating the income of the family aggregate that would allow opening social action to a few thousand more students, bringing them to the teaching system. We also propose that the net incomes of the family be taken into account rather than gross income be taken into account. This is a more real analysis of the real situation of families and allows them to adjust, above and from a fairer criterion, the value of the bags that today only serve, most of them, to pay the tips. The scholarship passes through the student, but it is soon handed over to the university or to the polytechnic to pay the tips. A small increase would already make a substantial difference. We also propose that a public and binding timetable be defined to transfer scholarships to students, thus avoiding waiting months. If it takes time to analyze the processes, then what we propose is that, after 30 days of the application, the student begins to receive a conditional scholarship, which will then be correct according to the analysis of the process, but which ensures that, in this period of time, the student does not go without having to deal with his expenses. In addition, and in conclusion, we propose that the policy of propines be changed. The arguments in favour of the introduction of propinas in Portugal, whose start-up shots, in fact, belongs to Cavaco Silva and its government, were an absolute achievement. Today, the tips are a concrete and objective obstacle to democracy in access to higher education. Whoever has a purse should be free of propines, and next year we should begin to set the example of a policy capable of removing this obstacle to democracy which is the propines. With these measures, we are fighting abandonment, in a context where about 8,000 students have left higher education. They are concrete measures that respond to the difficulty of families, that benefit from knowledge and that democratize education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u27	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition parties today present politically friendly proposals on higher education. I say "sympathetic" because it leaves the best of the worlds. On the one hand, some leave from the unrealism of the abundance of resources that does not exist; on the other hand, others from a certain electoral centre that in fact predicts elections on the horizon. If the Left Block and the CFP reject the autonomy of the institutions, they reject commitments made, deny the progress achieved and even want to award grants to those who do not have use, comparing April of this year's data with July of last year's data erroneously; the Socialist Party presents a bill in which it proposes to pay the tips in instalments of seven benefits and a special system of payment of propines after the payment of the respective grants has begun. After reading this project, I wondered whether this was a current proposal or whether it might just appear to fulfill the electoral timetable. It is that making a set of payment proposals in instalments, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, when he already exists... Mr President, first of all, these rules relating to the payment of tips are approved by the higher education institutions themselves and, therefore, it is therefore up to what is the question of their own autonomy, with good examples of phased payments — there are already payments of tips up to 10 benefits and, in the event of economic shortage, it is also known that there are possibilities for special payment plans. Of course, no one doubts that there are already specific measures concerning the payment of pocket tips and that they only pay those tips after they have access to the stock exchange. None of this is new, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are very diverse examples. For example, at the University of Porto, we go up to four benefits; at the Polytechnic of Setúbal, we go up to 10 benefits. I know that the Socialist Party points out that there should be a harmonic number for all, but that is not the responsibility of the government, but the freedom of the institutions. Therefore, it is only pure electoralism. In fact, although there are many complaints from students, this issue is not even one of them, so I would like to draw attention to the sense of opportunity, which is none of these measures. It is also recommended that the Government also approve a regulation of fees and emoluments to be charged. This also contradicts the RJIES (Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions). It makes no sense for the government to get involved in this matter. The opposition parties, and in particular the Socialist Party, with the proposals that show, in fact, a lack of ideas and thinking on these matters that indicate to me precisely that the government is on the right track.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u29	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u30	When you propose what already exists, it is because what exists is good. So we are very happy with that note. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u31	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some of the proposals we are discussing today are quite well known to this House since we have discussed them several times in this Parliament and even in the previous one, and I can refer to the tops of these sessions, either in opposition or as part of the majority, maintaining a great consistency in their appreciation. For example, with regard to the CFP project on funding, which we have repeatedly rejected, it does not seem to us a proper way of looking at higher education and is, above all, a highly unsustainable way of financing, because it is not clear where the budget would come from for such financing. [[Protests from PCP MP David Costa.]] With regard to the Socialist Party's proposal for the phased regime, I must say that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has made a good explanation of the system's functioning in several universities and political institutes in the country, which within its autonomy, but also, of course, within the need for treasury, already allow phased forms of payment of propinas, without having to be the centralizing State to say 'no, the minimum is seven, it must be so and you will be able to arrange'. I believe that it is a way of being here, too, in some way, to bring these institutions' own governing bodies to their autonomy in these decisions. With regard to the project of the Left Block, particularly with regard to higher education scholarships, I must say that it is worth looking at the data, until today they appear in real time. on the Directorate-General page it is possible to consult data from higher education scholarships on 20 April, where we clearly realize that there are already a greater number of scholarships awarded, particularly in public education, compared to the total school year last year. Mr José Soeiro, it is true that there are fewer scholarships awarded in private higher education, but if it is seen, this happens because the institutions have not processed 1800 of the 9000 requests in private higher education, and that it is more than 1 / 5 that is still awaiting processing of the institutions, which, as it will calculate, makes it difficult to establish the paradigm of fewer scholarships. however, it would be very strange that there was or, on the other hand, Mr, it would be symptomatic that, since there were no changes in the stock exchanges regime, the only one that had been to extend because, as you know well in your draft resolution, it removed the question of tax debts and social security, and it was therefore an amendment that was made in the scheme to extend the number of beneficiaries. If there had been a reduction in scholarships allocated, it would mean that this would happen by improving the economic situation of the people, because if it had not moved into the regulation or, before, the application base has been extended, the number of candidates with the grant would necessarily have to come from improving the situation of families. That's not what happens. There was indeed a slight increase for now, but the final data will only be known at the end. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said that it would be a good time to have a debate on the stock exchange regulation. Who made this debate against the Socialist Party in the previous legislature were exactly the parties of the current majority and the parties that are in opposition to the left of the Socialist Party. It was necessary here to bring together a majority against the relative majority of the Socialist Party in the previous Parliament to force the stock exchange regulation to be changed, which this government has not taken over, to which it has failed to comply. And every year increases, on the one hand, the number of beneficiaries and on the other, also increases the speed with which scholarships are awarded,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u33	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u34	I'm done now, Mr. President. Today it is not factual to say that it is expected months and months by the award of scholarships. This process has been highly accelerated by the current government — I think it is worth having a word of recognition in this regard; not being a perfect system, it will always have defects, which, with the help of this majority, has drawn up a regulation of scholarships which lasted a legislature and which may even last longer. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u35	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As regards the interventions which have been made, particularly those made by Mrs Nilza de Sena, the PSD, and Mr Michael Seufert of the CDS, we would like only to point out two questions. The tax forgiveness given to Madeira offshore would pay four times the tips of higher education students.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u37	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u38	We recall again that Portugal pays, in interest of debt, seven times more than it transfers per year to higher education. We're talking about political options. These are political options and commitments that are made, and the majority's commitment is, of course, to the economic interests, to the bank and to the big capital. The CFP's commitment is to students, is to the Constitution of the Republic and is to defend public higher education. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u39	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address Mr Seufert first of all to Mr Seufert. in the last three years, we have less than 34,000 students in higher education, there are fewer students enrolled in 1. the year, there are still scholarships to be processed, as you know, and the Directorate-General for Higher Education talks about the abandonment of 8,000 students — these are the latest data, but they are not yet related to this year. Sir, are you happy? Do you make a positive diagnosis? Do you think this has nothing to do with the country's economic and social situation, for which you have contributed? [[Protests from CDS-PP MP Michael Seufert.]] And the PSD too, of course. Mrs Nilza de Sena spoke of voidness, but she won the vacuum prize in this debate with her intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u42	We're talking about concrete things. Are you in favour of a conditioned scholarship?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u43	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u44	Are they in favour of accounting for net income rather than gross income? Are they in favour of strengthening social action for students who are unable to meet the costs of higher education frequency? They're either in favor of it or not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you responding to the difficulty of the students? I wanted to say one last word: we, BE, think that the projects of the Socialist Party allow some progress in regulating the emoluments and payment of the tips, but the problem is to turn this discussion into a discussion about how the tips are paid and not on the basis of the propines themselves. That is, are the tips the fair way to fund higher education?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u46	There are a dozen countries in Europe that have no tips. in Germany there are no propines. And, in fact, it is part of the tradition of those who defend the social state to defend universal public services, which are paid by progressive taxes and do not defend user-paying principles, which is, in essence, the basis of the logic of the tips. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u47	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by expressing some shock at Mrs Nilza de Sena's deeply regrettable intervention. We are seriously trying to discuss in this House one or more political proposals, agree or disagree with them, but they have a value that is trying to improve the situation in which families today are. And you can say — it is true, it is perfectly recognised by all — that there are many institutions that already proceed to the phased payment, that many institutions already allow the stockholders to start paying the bill only after they receive the first scholarship, but what is fundamental and what we have to discuss today, before a concrete proposal, is how does this Parliament respond to students who are in a higher education institution who do not allow them to wait for the scholarship to be received.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u50	What do we respond to higher education students who are in an institution that does not allow phased payment of the tip? Because these situations exist and recognize that there are and say "good, it does not hurt, because there are many others"... And people who are in institutions where this is not a reality and in which, in fact, they do not have the possibility to lighten and benefit from this advantage in their family budgets? The honourable Member, also contradictoryly, says "Ah, what is good is there thanks to the government", but at the same time she does not fail to recognize that it was the autonomy of the higher education institutions that created these phased payment schemes. It was neither the Government nor the majority who expressed it at any time, nor at this time, when only the extension of a minimum protection service is required for people who do not benefit from the phased regime. They do not even pay attention to a small surgical change that would effectively benefit some families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u51	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not about electoralism, but about diagnosing a problem and giving it a concrete answer. I therefore call on the majority not to close the doors to a possibility of improving the quality of payment of propines in institutions by a mere whim, because it is making beer, because it does not like the fact that the opposition has put forward a proposal that does not increase expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u53	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u54	Mr Duarte Marques, if it existed, we would not be having this debate. And if there are institutions in which it is not consecrated, as Mrs Nilza de Sena acknowledged that there are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u55	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u56	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, by recognizing that the problem exists and by choosing not to solve it, it is painfully telling these students who do not benefit from the regime, who are in the ink for their problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude this debate on these legislative initiatives, which will be voted on tomorrow, as you know. We will move on to the third point of the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 882 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) — First amendment to Act No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act. To present Bill No. 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ), by the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u58	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mr. Members, other public here present, social communication: Over 12 months on the publication of the Clinical Research Act, because participants hope to see the results of the studies and trials completed, because the audit, inspections and monitoring are determining variables of this process, because the research has costs that cannot be ignored, it is therefore necessary to achieve the objectives proposed in terms of the universe of participants, conditions of realization, so that they are achieved, as well as compliance with the protocol presented. on this basis, the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups present a bill that aims to ensure greater compliance with good practices in conducting clinical trials and studies and access to their processes. Therefore, in addition to access to the monitor, it is also possible to access auditors, Infarmed inspectors, regulatory oversight services, so that the progress of the tests concerned and their compliance with them is ensured. It is an unquestionable concern of the proposers the strict observance of the ethical principles of protection of participants and the integrity of the results, and it cannot fail to be lost and given that, in terms of public health, the information contained in the participants' records constitutes the source of the results and are the basis of the scientific demonstration produced by them. in this measure, when it became necessary to conduct audits, there was care to safeguard the informed consent of the participants, the requirement for access to the process through the investigator, to the extent strictly necessary for the fulfilment of the responsibilities of the prosecutor's representatives, as well as the competent regulatory entities, by the means that less risks matter to the personal data. Professionals accessing the proceedings shall ensure the confidentiality of the participants' personal information. This initiative objectively defines the concept of auditor, from audit to clinical trial, the concept of monitoring and the activities that should be audited and their assessment. It also provides that auditors are subject to registration in the National Clinical Studies Registry. Thus, this bill aims to make the clinical trials effective, achieve the goals and results proposed by researchers and promoters and the provision of data only to the extent that they allow to assess the responsibilities of the proponent's representatives, but always with the mandatory secrecy of all those who have access to them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u59	Also to present the PSD and CDS bill, now by CDS, has the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I would like to say that humanity has a huge debt to clinical research. It is thanks to her that the extraordinary advances of science and medicine are achieved. It is thanks to scientific and clinical research that allows you to find vaccines that prevent real scourges, find therapies that save lives and develop technologies that improve the quality of life of all populations. And when I say « all», I mean that, first of all, it is the most efficient societies that can provide, through their health services, the most innovative therapies. But ultimately, over time, it ends up being all humanity benefiting from these extraordinary advances, as a result of clinical investigation. Secondly, I would say that clinical trials are an undeniable link to the study process that leads daily to civilizational conquests. Furthermore, hosting clinical trials is an extremely important factor in promoting research, both university and hospital funding and the competitiveness of a country. Another important issue is the access by participants to truly innovative therapies with controlled risk, which can make the participants of this research the first to benefit from diseases that were often considered incurable. in recent years, it is good to say - it is the result of absolutely outdated and inadequate legislation and practices, together with a large bureaucratic weight, Portugal has lost its relevance and demand in this area. A decrease in demand that has been feared to become irreversible, with a loss of demand for other European countries, in particular the Eastern European countries. Until about a year ago, as you will recall, the Government submitted to this Parliament an updated and appropriate bill to the current reality, resulting in Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April. In addition to this Law, it is good to say that, the Integrated Program of Promotion of Excellence in Medical Research has been created. However, when it comes to such a relevant area, increased responsibility and attention is required in respect of good practice. In short, the great challenge of societies is to maintain the right balance, often difficult to achieve, between the almost endless horizons of scientific research and medical progress and the fulfilment of the fundamental rights of citizens. This is what we want to do, through this joint legislative initiative, in order to improve, adapt and introduce amendments that are relevant to a Law which, of course, has one year, but which lacks permanent monitoring by the legislator, by society and by the scientific community. I would like to say that the amendments which are introduced through this bill and which have already been referred to by Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão are going to meet international protocols and, once again, I say, are essential guarantees for the fulfilment of fundamental rights of participants, such as security, dignity and confidentiality. Thus, I would reiterate the four main aspects of this bill, especially with regard to the standard of guidance on good clinical practice. We are talking here about predicting the right of monitors, auditors and inspectors to the clinical records of participants in clinical trials in order to ensure the supervision of progress in these trials and the conformity of their performance with the protocol and with the legislation. It is very important, once again, to ensure this balance, that there is constant monitoring and monitoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u61	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, it is important to underline the importance of the information contained in the records. Thirdly, I would say that it is the most relevant aspect of this PSD and CDS-PP bill —, clarifying the rules for access to the registration of participants in clinical studies, especially in clinical trials, by these monitors, auditors and inspectors. This is for the purpose of adequate monitoring and inspection of this whole procedure and also in order to clarify some aspects related to the final report of the same clinical study. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u63	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PCP, clinical investigation is not limited to the study of new medicines and clinical trials. It also includes observational studies, developed by higher education institutions, by the institutions of the National Health Service and by the state laboratories. The PCP presents this legislative initiative, the first amendment to Law No. 21 / 2014, in order to introduce into the Law dimensions that we consider essential and that were completely rejected during the discussion of the current Law by the parties of the majority, PSD and CDS-PP, but also largely rejected by the Socialist Party. Our proposals aim to increase the protection of people who participate in clinical trials; to value and create the conditions that allow the development of clinical trials initiated by the researcher or promoted by the institutions of the National Health Service; to establish the regulation for the financing of research developed by the institutions of the National Health Service; to allocate the human and technical resources for the development of the research carried out by the institutions of the National Health Service; to promote pharmacovigilance; and to create the mechanisms that value and recognize clinical research, and can and should be used to advance in the career. Our proposals also aim at strengthening the competences of the clinical study centre, in particular to approve the conduct of the clinical study and to allocate the means necessary for its development, as well as to value and recognize the role of ethics committees for health and, finally, the degovernmentalization and democratization of the functioning of the National Health Ethics Network and the extension of the framework of its competences. We believe that our proposals improve the law in force and, at the same time, defend the interests and rights of participants in clinical trials and in the investigation, by the end of the exceptionality which is currently in force, of certain requirements, in particular by making them compulsory, such as the existence of insurance. Today it is also under discussion, as we have heard here, a bill presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP. The project presented by the majority maintains all the assumptions of the current law and does not resolve its shortcomings. The majority initiative only introduces amendments aimed at « clarifying the standards of access to the registration of participants in clinical studies, especially clinical trials by monitors, auditors and inspectors ». We believe that it is insufficient and that they should go further. Clinical research must be oriented towards the search for solutions to problems, to improve the means of diagnosis and treatment. It also has to be designed and carried out in order to primarily defend the interests of the National Health Service and not solely oriented to satisfy the interests of the industry. It is therefore in these assumptions that the draft law is formulated here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal decrees we have before us today deal with a matter undoubtedly important and current, since clinical research, being a branch of medical science that determines the safety and effectiveness of medicines, medical devices, diagnostic products and treatment plans developed for human use, is undoubtedly one of the areas that has merited our particular attention, since it is due to the work carried out in clinical research that have achieved advances that result in gains to the population, in gains to health. It is therefore justified that we should once again stop on this subject. What we have in mind is, on the one hand, a draft law which once again aims to reconcile aspects that need to be present and which, when drafting the Law, have divided the benches: on the one hand, the need to make Portugal a competitive country and in which the rules allow the creation of groups and the carrying out of the tests, so that Portugal can be on the front line in European and international terms in this regard and, on the other hand, the protection of the beneficiaries of this type of test. Of course there were differences at the time of the approval of the Law, as there is still, but we cannot accept the Portuguese Communist Party here saying that our interests are only for the defence of the pharmaceutical industry. It's not the case, as we've already shown. What is at stake is the defence of users and the defence of citizens in general. That is why we had a lot of caution when it came to the drafting of the Law, as Mrs Paula Santos well knows, that she has, at the moment, accompanied the many reflections that all of us, in the same way, have done together in the working group that was set up for this purpose. at this time, what is at stake is the bill that most of us present, which aims to « clarify the standards of access to the registration of participants in clinical trials, for the purposes of monitoring their results and in accordance with good clinical practices applicable to human research ». That is, so far, according to the Law which we have approved here, it is not possible for the auditors, people who participate in these trials to have access to data that are considered sensitive, because they are health data. And what is present here today is the possibility of changing these standards. The National Data Protection Commission was given an opportunity to take action because the Government once again, having difficulties in dealing with the Constitution, tried to pass these rules through a decree of law. The National Data Protection Commission, and well, has warned that this is not the case and therefore we have here in the Assembly of the Republic the possibility to amend the Law and return to the competent body the possibility to do so. And we basically agree. We understand that the necessary precautions are guaranteed for the test participants to see their rights guarded — pass the pleonasm — and we will therefore approve the legislative initiative which the two sides of the majority here present to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u68	We regret, however, that, having been aware of the difficulties faced by the auditors in clinical research, most of them do not accompany us in other concerns, such as those which the Portuguese people were able to know — who did not know, who did not follow the health situation as much — such as those of the emergencies, in which the Portuguese could verify how professionals work, the situation of exhaustion in which the professionals are, the situation of abandonment in which the patients are in hospital corridors. Probably, Mr. Secretary of State of the Costa loyal will not think of the participants in clinical trials what they think of the patients who are in the beds of the emergency corridors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u70	Mr. Secretary of State thinks that the patients are well-installed, that the beds are articulated and comfortable, and what we regret is that the majority can only bring to this Chamber punctual situations and that in what is truly structural and is hurting the Portuguese does not have the ability to do so. We're sorry. As you see, when it is possible to improve people's lives, the Socialist Party's bench here is to safeguard Portuguese health rights and interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS are presenting today a bill that aims to amend the Clinical Research Act, recently approved by this Assembly of the Republic and widely debated in the specialty, as I think we are all reminded. The draft law concerned above all aims to « set the conditions under which monitors, auditors and inspectors may access the registration of participants in clinical studies ». It can be said that it is only an improvement of the Law, taking into account the Standard on Good Clinical Practice adopted by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency in 1996. This rule was already known when the Law was debated and approved — this is the first point. It also occurs that there is an opinion of the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) during the discussion of the Act that « highlights the circumstances of the data processing concerned, whether related to clinical trials or studies, because they have an impact on sensitive personal data - in the case, health data and, where appropriate, other data relating to private life - require the competent authorization of the CNPD, which will have to be prior to the initiation of data processing ». It is now introduced by means of a draft law, a few months after the adoption of the Law, the "auditing of audits, where necessary, in accordance with the standards of good clinical practice" and, for its implementation, "the investigator and the institution where the clinical study is conducted authorises the direct access of the representatives of the promoter, in particular the monitor and the auditor, as well as the supervision or inspection services of the competent regulatory authorities, to the data and documents of the clinical study when obtained informed consent from the participant or its legal representative", not referring to the prior authorization of the CNPD. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we here trying to change? Who are we responding to? In fact, the informed consent, as we are well remembered, and from our point of view (and the Left Block defended this point of view), was not sufficiently densified in the law, allowing even situations in which it does not have to be provided in writing. The PSD and CDS bill now seeks to introduce an amendment against which is the National Data Protection Commission and which was not introduced months ago when the law was discussed. In fact, there can be no discussion in the specialty of this bill without the opinion of CNPD. And what's the hurry? What's the hurry, ladies and gentlemen? Members of the PSD and the CDS, when do we all know that a Community directive is being prepared exactly on the ultra-sensitive issue of audits in clinical studies and trials? You're being studied...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u73	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is being studied, I said, because this is an extremely sensitive subject. And we have an obligation to find ways to follow clinical trials—yes, it is true that they must be accompanied—but without violating the rights of citizens and citizens. Mr President, if I may, I shall quickly conclude by saying the following: the Left Block is directly against and will vote against this bill. And we will demand the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u75	For a second speech, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard here the Socialist Party say that it cares about people, users and the National Health Service. So, Mrs. Member, if the PS cares so much about people and the National Health Service, let's see if this is true and the proposals and the bill that the PCP brings here are approved. Of course, PS says it cares about people, but essentially PS policy is to continue the guidance given to clinical research over time. What we are also looking at today is that PSD and CDS-PP refer very much to the importance of clinical research for the evolution of treatments, knowledge and health. It is only that, essentially, the bill here presents the clinical investigation to clinical trials. Now, clinical investigation is not limited to clinical trials, intervention and knowledge of medication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u77	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u78	I conclude, Mr. President. Clinical research is much more comprehensive. Moreover, the rights of participants must be safeguarded in clinical research. And the right to the protection of your data is a fundamental aspect, an aspect that the PCP values and defends and in which direction the proposal presented here goes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u79	For a second intervention, Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Like all of us, we value the clinical investigation and the protection of participants. So, what is at stake here — and it is worth it. Investigators pay attention—it is the proposal to cancel clinical trials by the Portuguese Communist Party, when futility is present. Well, this is an insult to the ladies. Researchers from this country. There are no investigators who admit futility in clinical trials! [[PSD applause.]] The second question has to do with the following: indeed, urgent situations have had their time, had their consequences, but this is not the PS that will solve the problems of patients and SNS users,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u81	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u82	... nor the Portuguese in general, for, of all the proposals that he is presenting, never one of them is the last. We've had the Agenda for the Decade, we've got a new proposal now, and none of these are the last. It is indeed the money they have to keep these opinions and are making contributions to distracting Portuguese. [[Protests by PS MP Jorge Fão.]] As regards the investigation and protection in clinical trials under Decree-Law No 102 / 2007 of 2 April, there is a set of data known as the "permanent trial process" and which « consists of essential documents which allow the conduct of a clinical trial and the assessment of the quality of the data produced ». Moreover, the National Data Protection Commission, in addition to INFARMED, has an intervention in this assessment regarding the conservation, access and transmission of the ownership of data and documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u83	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u84	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that what it has to be is safeguarded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u85	So much so that you don't want to put it now through the « horse door»!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u86	Mrs. Members, the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 882 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), which will be voted on tomorrow during the voting period, we shall proceed to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1367 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ), 1393 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ), 1412 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government extraordinary measures to support producers of milk for the Azores ( BE ) and 1433 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the dairy sector ( PS ). To present draft resolution No 1367 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr João Ramos has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing the dairy sector on the initiative of the CFP. The milk sector in Portugal is one of the most affected by the country's entry into the European Union. in the last 20 years, dairy farms have increased from 70 000 to less than 7000, a reduction of 90 %. Since April 2010 the price of milk paid to the producer in Portugal remains below the European average. The minimum viability price for a holding is 40 cents / kg, but the milk has been paid to the producer at 34 cents and 30 cents. in Latvia and Lithuania, milk is sold at 20 cents. The end of the quotas will have serious repercussions in the region between Douro and Minho, in the Coastal Beira and in the Azores, where the representatives of the producers have already stated that it can have « an even more dramatic negative impact than the decrease in the American presence at the Lajes Base ». The European Commission does not hide the implications of the end of quotas, particularly in the report on the « milk package », where it assumes the possibility of « episodes of extreme market volatility or (... ) crisis situations after the abolition of the quota regime ». The European Union does not hide the consequences, but nothing does to prevent them. This position will only alienate those who see the European Union as a group of countries with charitable intentions towards the smaller and poorest countries. Once again, the European Union demonstrates that its policies will not defend the interests of Portugal or our productive sectors. Today, it seems to be consensual in Portugal, the importance of milk quotas. Who, then, has responsibility for its extinction? under the so-called Agenda 2000, the governments of the European Union, including the Portuguese Government of the PS, being Minister of Agriculture Capoulas Santos, decided in 1999 the end of the milk quotas for 2008. Subsequently, in 2003 the European Union, being Government, in Portugal, PSD and CDS and Minister of Agriculture Sevinate Pinto, confirmed the decision, but postponed its implementation by 2015. in the Council of Agriculture Ministers of November 2008, in a PS government, being Minister of Agriculture Jaime Silva, the end of the dairy quota regime was consolidated on 31 March 2015. Neither the positions of PS governments opposed PSD and CDS, nor those of PSD/CDS governments had PS disagreement. Even recently, in December 2013, while in Portugal, the Government claimed to want to defend milk quotas, PS, PSD and CDS voted in the European Parliament against a proposal for a resolution of the CFP, an alternative to the original report, which advocated the need to maintain the milk production quota regime beyond 2015. The end of milk quotas will transform a country self-sufficient in milk production into a strong importer from product. Allowing this is reducing production and employment and promoting imports. And PSD, CDS and PS will be associated with the destruction of this important productive sector. That is why it is necessary to save national production, which the CFP proposes: the maintenance of a market regulatory framework at European level, accompanied by measures guaranteeing a fair price for the production and protection of the national market from the entry of foreign milk; effective regulation and monitoring of the speculative activity of food distribution chains, imposing limits on the use of white marks and establishing 'quota' of domestic production; and the intervention of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that the prices to be established in the 'contracts' take into account the values of the production factors. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u88	To present draft resolution Nos 1393 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 1412 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the importance of the dairy sector in the context of the national economy is recognized by all. We are talking about 7000 farms, 100 000 jobs, more than EUR 2000 million in this sector. If there are no concrete measures, taking into account the liberalisation of the market and the end of quotas, the milk production sector may end in our country. The quota scheme in the European Union has so far enabled the milk production balance between the Member States. With total liberalisation, countries that, among other reasons, have specific climate conditions, become more productive and competitive, crushing the milk production sector in countries such as ours. in the case of the Azores, the situation becomes even more serious, because it is a region where production is made on a small scale, because the economy of the communities is based on incomes from this sector and because the Azores are an ultraperipheral region. For this reason, the Left Block presents a specific draft resolution for the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Having arrived here and failed that were the promises of the majority PSD / CDS — failed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we recall that the CDS and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we would be returning the quotas and that the PSD said that there would be compensation for the end of the quotas — which came here, where neither has happened, are in fact necessary measures, and very concrete, to save the milk production sector. The Left Block presents these measures, of which I highlight the following: firstly, price regulation, to prevent prices below the cost of production and prices which guarantee producer yield margins; secondly, incentives for restructuring farms, which is essential; thirdly, and not least importantly, the amendment of the rules for the recognition of producer organisations so that small producers can be organised—we are all in favour of associationism, right? — even because, as we know, it is necessary to have access to support. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly of the Republic is now called upon to take a position and to recommend to the Government concrete measures if we want to save the milk production sector in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u90	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The milk sector in Portugal is very important from the point of view of the territorial economy, particularly for the northern and coastal regions of the country, but also for the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is a sector that contributes to the national economy, but also as a supermania, to territorial cohesion at national level. The truth is that we are facing a sector that has been able to modernize, innovate, organize and prepare itself for this moment. But it is also true that we are facing a sector which has very narrow margins, a sector where the relations between production, industry and distribution are very tense and which is very sensitive to any increase in production at regional level, since 96 % of this production is sold in the Community area. We are therefore facing a sector which is ready, but which is also threatened. In view of this scenario, what we have seen is that the European Commission shows a great misunderstanding about national reality, because it has not created a support fund for the dairy sector to mitigate the end of milk quotas. The Commission cannot ask each Member State to draw some farmers to give to others, it must create its own fund to solve these problems, as was done during the Health Check in which a fund of EUR 300 million was created. The PS proposes that the value of the fines of those surplus countries in milk production may be redistributed by the producing countries, as is the case with Portugal. On the other hand, the Commission also shows a huge misunderstanding with national agrarian systems by not simplifying the rules of greening and thus penalising Portuguese farmers who are currently at risk of losing EUR 14 million. Thus, if these rules are not amended, farmers who had aid linked to the amount of EUR 12, EUR 5 million will lose these aid, i.e. they will lose a value equivalent to the ligation of the aid. If there is a misunderstanding on the part of the European Union, what can be said is that the Portuguese Government did not use all the manoeuvring margin it had for the milk sector. The Portuguese Government could have created at the level of the Rural Development 2020 programme a specific programme for milk but not created. The Government could have set up an agri-environmental measure to deal with the loss of income of the northern and coastal agricultural systems, but there is no agri-environmental measure. from our point of view, it could have created an instrument of national self-regulation that would allow there to be no sudden income losses on the part of Portuguese farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u92	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet the parliamentary groups for presenting draft resolutions on the issue of milk quotas, particularly the Socialist Party, which is in national terms solely responsible for the end of milk quotas on 1 April 2015. Mr. Miguel Freitas, let me remind you of some dates. In 1999, with a socialist government led by António Guterres and having as Minister of Agriculture Capoulas dos Santos, in the preparation of Agenda 2000, the end of the quotas for 2008 was decided. In 2003, with a PSD and CDS government, not the end of quotas was achieved, but until 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u94	But he kept the end of the quotas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u95	In March 2008, with a socialist majority government, the Minister of Agriculture, responsible for the complete destruction of the agricultural sector, Jaime Silva, gave rise to the end of the quotas for 2015, without having at that time been the concern, which there was in relation to matters, to place the milk sector in the strategic sectors of the PRODER, and Mr. Miguel Freitas will certainly remember-CL.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u97	It is therefore strange that Mr President today is calling for specific measures to be taken for the milk sector and has not done so when the Socialist Party was in government and was responsible for drawing up a national programme for the implementation of Community funds. It's funny that you didn't do it when preparing the PRODER!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u99	Well, that doesn't stop being strategic for the Socialist Party. Mr. Miguel Freitas, let me tell you the following: remembering-CL will be that 2008/2009 was the worst time for milk producers, who lost 14% of their income. What did the Socialist Party do at that time by the sector? Zero! Let's forget what's behind, until, normally, the Socialist Party has no memory and makes the same mistakes a short time ago—you're seeing what's going on...! - and let's see what's going on. currently, with the negotiations of the current government, a financial envelope of about EUR 400 million was achieved to support the sector, one of the measures which Mr Freitas, in his draft resolution, presented. Now, if it is being done, it doesn't make much sense to come forward. Mr Freitas has asked for specific measures to be taken. There are already specific measures, not for milk, but for the whole agricultural organisation, where there may be specific support for the sector, provided they are integrated into producer organisations, as is the case with milk. Mr President, on this subject, let me tell you that the Socialist Party is late and, with this draft resolution, perhaps it is my fault, perhaps it is now time to do what we have not done. But, Mr President, there are some contradictions that cannot but be evidenced here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u100	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u101	with regard to greening, he knows that the Portuguese Government, with the European Union, is re-enacting the regulation which has been made late by the European Union so that it is possible to apply the greening measures, in the case of milk, still this year. In fact, the European Commissioner has said for days that this would be possible. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u102	Mr Pedro Lynce has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Traditionally, we must congratulate the proponents on the proposals put forward, which, I confess, always have a great advantage, which is to show the difference between our parties, which is always useful. This is therefore an attitude that we will not fail to support. I do not say the same about the merit of these proposals and our approval. I will not dismantle all your recommendations, especially since my colleague Abel Baptista has already done so, and when she was present with the Commission, she took her steps. What is important is to emphasize that most of them have already been implemented by the government itself, with deeper reasons that condition our vote, which I would like to mention. First, all initiatives prefer to dramatize the situation, to the detriment of portraying the exceptional work done in the last 20 years, although it is far from being finished, without a doubt, and believing in the ability to adapt our producers. I do not see this aspect, which to us is very important, duly highlighted in any of the projects. Secondly, the majority of the recommendations proposed by the Socialist Party and the Left Bloc fall short of being late, since the Government has already taken these measures in an appropriate and timely manner. If, perhaps, these measures were adopted today, what would we gain when more than two months have passed? It was at the beginning of the CAP that the Government began discussing this issue and proposed that this decision be repealed in a timely manner. It is also good to realize that this attitude of the Government is in line with the strategy that the Government itself has determined in relation to this activity. I remind you that this was the first government to consider agriculture as a strategic activity for the development of the country. Mr Freitas, I am sorry to say that with all my frankness, all the more so that I have great admiration for you, for your competence and for your political position, but I confess, by reading the diploma that the Socialist Party has presented, I am more sorry that there is a problem of awareness about the approval that the Socialist Party Government has made in Europe, when it has helped to decide the end of milk quotas, than, possibly, the reason for its recommendations, given what the Government has already done. Finally, with regard to the recommendations of the Communist Party, Mr John Ramos, one of the great admiration I have for the Communist Party is its consistency and you are consistent with all your ideas. But — it is good to be clear — if all of your recommendations were to be advanced it would be a 20-year delay, Mr President. As such, I clearly believe that you are a man connected to the earth, who is possibly with a great dilemma: that of Portugal to leave the European Union or not. I think this is a very complicated dilemma that the party is now demanding it. Finally, for the reasons put forward, I cannot but say that we are going to vote against it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u104	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor, which has only two seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u105	Mr President, it is to tell Mr. Abel Baptista that you are wrong. In 2008 there was a programme of EUR 100 million, a specific milk package for the national sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u107	What we realize is that the lack of understanding about the milk sector is not just about the Commission, it is also about the majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u108	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u109	Most people have come to say today that they do not want more than EUR 400 million of fresh money to support the national dairy sector. What the majority came here today is that they do not want a new agri-environmental measure for agricultural systems in the dairy sector. What most people have come here today is that they don't want to solve the problem of greening. What most of us have come here today is that, with most of us, there will not be a specific programme for the milk sector. I mean to tell the gentlemen. Members who also need an alternative in Portugal and this alternative, because the PS commits itself to what it writes, are the policies that the PS has proposed today for the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u110	For an intervention, you have the floor to Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Pedro Lynce and Mr. Abel Baptista, with due respect, I must say that Mr. Pedro Lynce announced that he would not dismantle the recommendations presented here by the opposition parties. I would have liked more if you had spoken about the way the milk sector is being dismantled and the fact that it could be further dismantled. This is the key question. Mr President, it is not so much about the recommendations of the opposition parties that, in the light of the facts, what they deserve from the majority is a vote against, but more concerned about solutions for a sector that is at serious risk of total dismantling.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u113	By the way, the ladies. Members have invoked the past, made the balance sheet for the last 20 years and are sure that they may even be right. I do not withdraw the responsibilities of the Socialist Party in the years in which it was in government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a very concrete situation and you are in government. What are you gonna do? It does not help to say that dramatising the situation does not solve and that the adaptability of our producers is not invoked here. Yes, sir, and that is why we are asking for concrete measures for the restructuring of farms. If we didn't trust our producers, we wouldn't propose it. But you did not propose anything concrete! Nothing! Zero! Minister Assumption Cristos has failed in turn because he said he was going to put the quotas back — it is necessary to tell the truth! — I therefore ask: what has you already done in terms of price regulation? Where is he? You know the tools, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Where are they? And as for incentives to restructure farms, do you know anything? Nothing! What about the recognition of producer organisations? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the trial has been closed since November last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u114	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u115	I conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, since November last year, the Ministry of Agriculture has not recognised producer organisations and then the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen come to talk about intentions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too serious! It is a key sector for the Portuguese economy, for agriculture. It would therefore be much better for the Assembly of the Republic to be able to transmit a firm and concrete position to the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u116	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake is the right of the country to produce, but the European Union and the policies of this government want to deny this possibility, particularly in relation to a sector that is self-sufficient. Mr. Abel Baptista here made some criticisms and recalled the responsibilities of the PS in this matter, with which we agree. however, referring to the PSD and the CDS, he said that Minister Sevinate Pinto managed to postpone the quotas, but stating that they were against them. Interestingly, in 2013, when the CFP presented to the European Parliament an alternative proposal to the report under discussion, proposing to extend the quotas beyond 2015, you and the Members who were in the European Parliament voted against. That is why it is not true what you said here. Mr. Pedro Lynce has already spoken back, but that is what you should do. The country and the sector may be on the brink of the abyss, but you always keep moving forward. The solutions that the Government has presented us with more organisation, more concentration and more work on processing and export have not solved the problems. This is the most organized sector in the country, one of the most organized in Europe and it has been modernised most. However, it is going through this problem. In fact, the concentration in transformation and distribution was precisely what led to this problem, thus suffocating the productive sector. You speak in transformation, but they do nothing so that a company like Renoldy, located in Alpiarça, which we have heard in committee, is not closed. Renoldy is a transformation company and Jerome Martins, being a distribution company, wants to enter into the transformation, wanting to control it again. How can they speak in export if the sector cannot compete in its own territory in your country? With the milk coming in from outside, how can you compete with other countries? Therefore, what they point to as a solution is not effectively the solution. The gentlemen. Members may say, now that the effects of the end of the quotas are evident, that they did not even agree with them, but when they had government responsibilities, they did not work hard to ensure that there was effective regulation of the milk quotas and that the country was entitled to produce. Therefore, both PS and PSD and CDS will be associated with the end of this important sector of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u118	Mrs. Members, these diplomas that have just been discussed will be voted on tomorrow. Let us therefore enter the fifth item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft law No 880 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legalizes the cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption and creates the legal framework for the canabis social clubs ( BE), in general, and of the draft resolutions 1435 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse developments in the health impacts of cannabis use, adopt measures to prevent its consumption and study the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes ( PCP ) and 1436 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an active policy in the area of drug addiction prevention and risk reduction ( PS ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Drug policy is changing, and it is changing around the world. There are 23 states in the United States that have legalized the acquisition and possession of cannabis, and it was in Washington this year. Also in January, the Spanish State recognized about 400 cannabis social clubs, Uruguay legalized the cannabis autoculture for its own consumption and passed a law that framed the cannabis social clubs. This change has objective reasons: more and more people acknowledge that prohibitionism has failed. In Portugal, the Minister of Justice himself, when he visited a prison, said, and I quote: "Repression and prohibition lead to the practice of those crimes. It is the prohibition that makes trafficking a deeply profitable business. The legal framework for consumption and acquisition is an instrument for combating trafficking. Do not keep on seeking. ” They are increasingly sound voices against prohibitionism and come from all quarters. For example, Jorge Sampaio and Kofi Annan appealed to governments to move forward with models of legal drug regulation to weaken crime and defend public health. And it is the UN that says in its 2014 report that the war on drugs was a gigantic failure. The drug business has never been so lucrative. We understand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that prohibitionism is the policy of traffickers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u121	Against the policy of the traffickers, the Left Block brings a proposal to legalize the cannabis autoculture and to frame the cannabis social clubs. The autoculture does not harm anyone, does not harm others and is an instrument to combat trafficking. Social clubs exist in other countries and are even internationally recognized as an exemplary experience—see the position of the World Health Organization. Portugal set an example in the early 2000s by decriminalizing consumption. There has not been a week when the Portuguese example does not appear in the international press and scientific journals as a positive example. however, this advance left a paradox in the law: it is not a crime to consume, but it is a crime to have a plant at home for own consumption and it is a crime to acquire. The autoculture and social clubs respond to this paradox. First of all, they remove consumers from clandestine circuits; secondly, they withdraw markets for traffickers; thirdly, they control quality and therefore promote public health; fourthly, they allow therapeutic use, which is being recognised in more and more countries; lastly, they promote information and create demanding rules where they do not exist today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we want rules, if we want to promote health, if we want responsibility, let us leave hypocrisy aside, learn from the world and have the courage to approve this Left Block initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u122	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cannabis consumption has evolved in a worrying way in our country. After the widespread reduction of consumption in 2007, an investment was observed in 2012, increasing the prevalence of consumption in the general population and with particular incidence in the school population. In fact, the prevalence of cannabis use among younger people has a growth trend. This is coupled with the increase in the abuse of cannabis and the increase in the population, which also presents symptoms of dependence on cannabis consumption. in another plan, there is a greater demand for treatment by cannabis users: 49% of new outpatients are cannabis users and in therapeutic communities there are already 24% users. Our concerns are raised when we look at this reality, at the same time that the capacity to respond to public services in the area of drug addiction is compromised, as a result of the government's policy options of destructuring, the disintegration of the strategy of combating drug addiction and public investment, which has led to the closure, concentration of valences and huge lack of health professionals, and today the multidisciplinary teams are completely out of date. What is urgent and necessary is to strengthen public investment in prevention, risk reduction and harm minimization, treatment and reintegration, ensuring adequate public response capacity to the requirements. For the CFP, the priority of intervention is to strengthen the prevention of cannabis use, the adoption of concrete measures specifically aimed at each population group and the strengthening of the response capacity of public services in the area of addiction, with the maintenance of the autonomy of integrated response centres, units of unrest and alcohol units, providing them with the necessary financial, technical and human resources and extending the street teams. We also propose to update and deepen the scientific study on the effect of cannabis use on health, because, on the one hand, cannabis production has been increasing THC levels, the psychoactive substance responsible for adverse health effects, and on the other hand, existing studies show that cannabis use leads to a greater risk of psychotic symptoms and mental disorders. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, we want to say that, in view of the reality of our country and the priorities listed here, we cannot follow the proposal put forward by the Left Block. It is also important to clarify the following: we have nothing to prevent, when there are scientifically proven clinical advantages in the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. We also propose that the Government deepen this issue and, having this proven clinical advantage, it should be included in the National Health Service ( SNS ) treatments. however, we cannot accept that the assessment of the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes is mixed with the legalization of cannabis use. These issues have nothing in common, because one thing is the approach of cannabis use as a therapy—in fact, other drugs are used for this purpose—and another is the legalization of cannabis for recreational and health-related purposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u124	To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the PS recommends to the Government an active policy in the area of drug addiction prevention and risk reduction. Prevention is a central issue, as the United Nations has appealed. In addition, they have also called for this prevention to be done through an active approach to integrated and cooperative prevention. However, the component of prevention and reduction of demand is essential to combat one of the most lucrative businesses in the world that is done at the expense of human suffering: illicit trafficking. There may even be many drugs, since the world has failed — it is also recognised by the United Nations — in the fight against trafficking, but if no one wants to consume them, I ask: What are they for? Not at all! This is where prevention comes in, a strategy that may even surprise traffickers. thus that the priority that governments should give to prevention should be maximum. They are costs that will turn into medium-term gains. In Portugal, we had an integrated strategy of prevention, risk reduction, treatment, reintegration and deterrence, but with the extinction of the RTD ( Institute for Drugs and Drug Addiction ), this strategy has been compromised, as soon as they have separated who guides the SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies) from who runs. In addition, the central components of the prevention and risk reduction, which are diluted and devalued, of course, in the context of the parafernalia of treatment and the SNS, were referred to the ARS (regional health administrations ). The model was only no longer damaged because there are very good, highly qualified and committed professionals who, against many winds and tides, even stagnating this dismantling of a service that worked very well at the level of integrated prevention. Therefore, we have been losing an integrated strategy and in this sense the effectiveness that could have a prevention strategy. The PS proposal calls for the maintenance and strengthening of an operational plan of integrated responses that articulates early prevention and proximity, so that messages reach young people in a timely and correct manner to increase their perception of risk. A prevention that will also reduce the stock exchanges of problematic users, which, despite all the fight at this level, continue to persist, reactivate reintegration programmes and which develop and monitor new psychoactive substances. Prevention is indeed the only strategy that will lead young people not to want to consume, increasing the perception of risk when they have information about it, even if they can do so and develop healthy lifestyles. Regarding the left block bill, we know not only that cannabis is the most consumed drug, but also that it is harmful to health, when it is adultery, and hence the project has the merit of quality control. As far as social clubs are concerned, we have some reservations. As for the PCP bill, we have nothing against prevention, all in favor, about cannabis for therapeutic purposes. We follow the global proposals in this regard and therefore also follow the PCP bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u126	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today, here, another bill of the Left Block. In our view, this is an initiative that is being re-initiated from the past, it is an old initiative, it is indeed a very popular initiative. It is an initiative to which I remind the House, Parliament has already said in a completely expressive way that it is not and is a diploma that aims to liberalize the cultivation of cannabis and the creation of social clubs for its consumption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an attempt to moralize the socialization of their consumption; it is a very particular and peculiar new form, I would say, a new kind of associationism in Portuguese youth; it is, in my view, a clear stimulus to consumption by young adults of this substance in Portugal; it is, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an incorrect sign for Portuguese society, arising, in fact, in contradiction with all the strategy that has been followed by the Portuguese Government and carried out on the basis of the prevention and fight against this scourge by the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, I find it extraordinary that, at a time when action is taken in a way that is concerned about what should be the alarming increase in public health offenses, the Left Block comes, on the contrary, to give a signal to the society that cannabis does not harm health and that it does not contain in its misuse.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u128	Who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u129	So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to warn you that cannabis has a negative effect on the health of young Portuguese people and on the general population. [[BE's protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be calm and hear, that I have heard you too. Cannabis causes in young symptoms such as psychopathy, anxiety, certain psychosis, among many other serious public health problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u130	And unemployment too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u131	Worse: this left-challenge diploma does not refer to anything and it does not contain anything, in particular, as regards medical and psychological monitoring which must be due to the consumer of these substances and does not provide for the possibility of this becoming a worrying social fashion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u132	Where did I hear that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u133	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the facts and to a very thorough analysis. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very concerned to mention the Minister of Justice, and I am glad that you have heard it, even if you would like to hear it in other matters, but in that case you are no longer interested in it. — but I would like to remind the honourable Members. Members of the Commission, in particular in the SICAD report presented last January, which says that drugs, as has already been mentioned by other political parties, more consumed in school is cannabis and that about 30 % of Portuguese young people up to the age of 18 have already used cannabis in secondary school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u134	And all this being illegal, have you seen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here in front of a pre-election scenario, an electoral pre-exclusion scenario of the Left Block and which again rides its clear agenda of irresponsibility. But, finally, let me say the following: don't count on PSD to create drug clubs in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u136	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u137	...in an attempt to refocus the younger ones less attentive to the reality and to the problems that affect them, in a frustrated attempt to look cool or cool and there they rode more « votives». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u138	Mr President, I conclude by welcoming the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party on the concern about the fight that must be due to this problem, although disagreeing with you on some points and others until the government itself has already carried out. I therefore welcome your vision of alertness and concern with this scourge, based on a commitment to prevention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the CDS we recognize that there are no easy solutions to such a complex and complex problem as drug use and drug addiction. This problem must deserve our continued, committed and unprejudiced attention. Therefore, we would like to begin by welcoming the PS and the CFP for the responsible initiatives they presented in this debate. However, unlike these initiatives, which we will not be able to follow because, as has already been said, to a large extent are being implemented by the Government, the bill of the Sick Left Block for the CDS of various insanable vices, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. That is: where weighting is required, the Left Block rushes; where transparency is required, the Left Block distorts; where caution is required, the Left Block risks; where responsibility is required, the Left Block is irresponsible; and where concern is required for the excessive use of drugs, the Left Block is irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, would begin with the question of de-responsibility and de-valorisation. The draft law of the Left Block absolutely devalues what is considered in international terms a real social and public health scourge: drug use and drug addiction—in fact, a term that is only used once in the explanatory statement, Mrs. [[BE's protests.]] At no time does the Left Block feel the slightest concern about slowing down drug use. The gentlemen. Members devalue the incidence of the problem. And it is not the CDS that says so, it is the report of SICAD in 2013, which I quote : « Between 2007 and 2012 there were increases among cannabis consumers in proportion to those who were dependent on this consumption, highlighting the increase in the younger group ( 15 - 24 years ) of consumers ( 9, 8 % in 2007 and 22 % in 2012 ). This points to the need to strengthen preventive measures at early age, taking into account that 15-24 years is the age group where consumption(...) is mostly started and, as can be seen...» — attention, ladies and gentlemen. Members — «... appear harmful and abusive patterns of consumption, which sometimes evolve into situations of dependence ». It's not us, on the CDS, that we say it, it's the SICAD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u142	It is sufficient to add that it is the second most mentioned substance by users who initiate specialized drug addiction treatments as a cause for this dependence. Secondly, the Members of the Left Block devalue the effects. You say that not being absolutely harmless, it is not very harmful either. That's not true! And it's not the CDS that says it, they're international and national experts who say it. I'm so happy to reroute to the Left Block these studies. It causes chronic respiratory problems, decreases in intellectual capacities, serious mental health problems, such as triggering schizophrenia. Therefore, contrary to what the Left Block says cannabis use can have effects, as you say, depersonalized. Thirdly, and as a great unsanitary vice to the CDS, you do a dangerous exercise of confusion. I recall, for example, about the smartshops, which were recently closed by the government, that it is very little careful to say that the fact that there is information in the substances will ensure — and I am quoting the Left Block — « an informed responsibility of the consumer».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u143	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that consumers are going to look at a bull and say, "All thought, I'm not going to consume this substance"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u146	You know that smartshops were open day and night, they sold plenty of chemicals, many of them fertilizers, where they warned that it was not for human consumption. This has once prevented young people from going abundant and cheerfully buying these substances, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u148	Much more would be said, but it is good not to miss the truth: you cannot invoke anachronistic persecution for cannabis users.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u149	Anachronistic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u150	Do you even think that there is an effective persecution of cannabis users in Portugal? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want it to be that way. She agreed that there would be more weighting on the approach of such complicated problems. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I would like to say that the proposals that the CFP here brought about prevention, intervention, strengthening the capacity of public services responses in the area of drug addiction are not being implemented by the government, as the PSD and CDS said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u153	I was doing so well. You've ruined everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u154	On the contrary, this Government was responsible for the destructuring and dismantling of the public response to this issue. [[PSD protests.]] He was responsible for the reduction of teams in the area of treatment, was responsible for the reduction of street teams and today we have fewer professionals in this area. That is why the proposals we are bringing here today are, in fact, necessary and, far more than this, priority to combat and prevent cannabis consumption, which you have also put here as worrying, which needs immediate measures, but which, indeed, this Government has done everything to destroy them, but not to prevent cannabis consumption. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u155	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to tell the majority that, in fact, at prevention level, the strategy is not being developed either. Even last year, this Parliament, the topic in Parliament Youth was about drugs and we realized that young people had no messages on the negative factors associated with drugs in order to be able to refute any kind of consumption. Therefore, we appeal to the majority to effectively support the projects, but above all to create conditions for them to be implemented within an integrated strategy, which is how they have to be developed so that they can be effective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u157	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not imagine that we would again hear arguments as archaic as those used when we discussed this subject in 2000. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u159	The banks on the right said that decriminalization of drugs would turn Portugal into a drug paradise, tourists would come to buy drugs. We know that decriminalization has decreased the infections, which have dropped the peak, has decreased crime and consumption has stabilized. Mrs. Members, know what the UN, the World Health Organization, the Minister of Justice — Steps Coelho, when it was JSD, was also in favour of decriminalization of drugs, what happens in Uruguay, the United States, Spain... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Look what's happening in the world. The legal framework for consumption is a policy to combat trafficking and is a public health policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u160	Mr. PSD said that Parliament has already said no. It is true, Mr, but I believe that one day this Parliament will say yes. I'm an optimist, you know why? Because I think that one day, even on your bench, public health will be worth more than hypocrisy! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Members, what we are discussing here today is whether the social clubs, which are the proposal of the Left Block, and whether or not the autoculture is a good mechanism for promoting public health, setting up consumption, promoting information and combating trafficking and what international experience tells us—are examples that already exist and which we should learn from—is that they are a good mechanism. What is at stake here, yes, sir, is the maintenance of prohibitionism, is whether we should maintain the criminalization of autoculture and the acquisition of cannabis that remains in the law, which clandestine traffic, which does not allow quality assurance and therefore does not allow public health assurance or stimulate informed consumption. I would like to say that this debate was necessary to hear a Member of the CDS commend the position of the CFP in this regard. Mrs. Members of all banks, the traffickers appreciate the maintenance of prohibitionism, because it is the maintenance of prohibitionism that guarantees their business, the maintenance of prohibitionism is certainly a favor that they do to the traffickers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-23.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives we have just discussed will be voted on tomorrow in the legislative period. We have come to the end of our work, so I should like to inform you that tomorrow's next plenary session will take place at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: general consideration of Bill No 314 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the issue and transmission between Portugal and the other Member States of the European Union of decisions implementing protective measures by transposing Directive 2011 / 99 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European protection decision; joint assessment of the proposals of lein. 299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suitable for the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists under Act No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and 300 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; joint assessment, in general, of the proposals of lein. 297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Dentists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Pharmaceuticals, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 311 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Medical Order, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and 312 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Nurses, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and the opinion of the Order of Nurses; joint assessment, in general, of the bill No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public vocational schools, within the framework of non-superior education, introducing clarifications into their respective schemes, and projects for lein. 881 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations ( PCP ), 883/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens democratic control by the deliberative bodies of the participating entities on the entities of the local business sector and other entities within the perimeter of the local administration by amending Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013 and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August ( BE) and 884 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures employment stability for workers in the local business sector by making the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August, adapting it to Council Directive 2001 / 23 / EC of 12 March ( BE ) ; and generally takes into account the proposal for law No 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production plants from renewable energy sources. The next item is the agenda, without time for discussion, 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2015, motion for a resolution No 111 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Maritime Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Ankara on 23 October 2014 and draft resolution No 1432/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the Office for External Budgetary Control ( fourth amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February 2004 approving the Structure and Competence of the Services of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). We shall proceed at 12 noon to vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
