ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u1	Mrs. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein. 314 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the issue and transmission between Portugal and the other Member States of the European Union of decisions applying protective measures, transposing Directive 2011 / 99 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Decision, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production facilities from renewable energy sources, which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 6. the Commission ; motion for a resolution No 112 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005 which falls to 2. the Commission, with connection to 1. the Commission. The projects of lein.os 833 / XII were also presented ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions ( PCP ) ; 834 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the supported income scheme, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December, establishing the new rental scheme supported for housing and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May, and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November, and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PCP ) ; 835 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 5 / 98 of 31 January, determining a new model for the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors ( PS ) ; 836 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater social justice in the new housing-supported lease regime and giving greater autonomy to autonomous regions and municipalities as part of their application ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014 establishing the new housing-supported lease regime and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PS ) ; 837 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines interest rates for credit borrowers in a context of negative reference rate ( PS ) ; 838 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July incorporating domestic violence within the objectives and competences of municipal safety councils ( BE ) ; 839 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the income scheme supported for greater social justice ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ) ( BE ) ; 841 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens Banco de Portugal's jurisdiction over external audit entities ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission ; 842 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards the internal audit and control of credit institutions ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; 843 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Bans payments to non-cooperating offshore entities ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission ; 844 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the powers of the Banco de Portugal in weighing the suitability for the performance of functions in credit institutions ( BE ), which is lower than 5. the Commission ; 845 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ban banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission ; 846 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the last beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; and 847 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits the holding of qualifying holdings by non-financial charities or non-financial conglomerates ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission. The following legislative initiatives were also presented: interpellation No 21 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Centered in the continuation of the policy of the troika by the government and in the affirmation of alternative policy and solutions for the country ( PCP ) ; and draft resolutions 1387 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of the São João da Madeira District Hospital within the SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1388 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by maintaining the Hospital de Santo Tirso under public management ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1389 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Estimulation to proximity markets, short-marketing circuits and profitability of production activity ( PCP ), 1390 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to dynamize small-scale products and proximity markets ( PS ) and 1391 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there is still a message from the President of the Republic that it is important to read, because it is read in the first plenary which follows at the time it is received, so I ask Mr Prime Minister and the other members of the Government only a few more minutes. Thus, the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 320 / XII, concerning the second amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September, which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation for private copy, is as follows: « Mr the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Your Excellency: Having received Decree No 320 / XII of the Assembly of the Republic which amends the second Act No 62 / 98 of 1 September, which regulates the provisions of Article 82, on 11 March 2015. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights on equitable compensation relating to private copying, decided in accordance with Article 136. that of the Constitution, do not promulgate that diploma, with the following grounds: 1 — the regulation of the subject matter relating to the so-called ‘private copy’ seems essential to achieve an adequate balance between all the interests concerned, namely the right of authors to be duly paid and compensated for their works and, on the other hand, the right of consumers to access, under fair market conditions, the goods and services of the digital economy. 2 — Not by chance, the debate on the ‘private copy’ has crossed the European Union, and it is advisable that there should be a common regulation on this subject with a view to avoiding asymmetries and disparities in market conditions, which, in a globalised economy, may result in the acquisition by citizens of digital goods and services abroad, with prejudice to all parties involved, i.e. without any benefit to national authors. 3 — It is also significant that this debate has covered the very application of the European legislative instruments and even the recent case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 4 — It is also to consider the position taken by various consumer rights associations, especially for the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association — DECO, which, in its opinion on the diploma under consideration, considered to be the same, and cited as ‘ obsolete, ineffective and disproportionate. ’ It further states that the same diploma does not make a clear distinction between legitimate reproduction and illegal reproduction, since the latter, by virtue of technological developments, has not been carried out, predominantly through the devices covered by the measure. On the other hand, it considers that there is a inadequacy of the mechanisms envisaged for the proper composition of the interests concerned and, finally, refers to the need for a broad and consistent debate on this subject, which covers all existing points of view. 5 — It is also important to take due account of the doubts about fairness and efficiency, raised by the fact that they are provided with equipment regardless of the destination given to them by consumers, as well as the effects that may result from the development of the digital economy, where the country has some delay in relation to several of its European partners. in this sense, considering the need for a reponderation of the various interests in the presence, with a view to adopting legislation which, in this matter, is more tuned with the already verified technological evolution and more in accordance with adequate protection of the rights of authors and consumers, decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, Decree No 320 / XII. With high regard, Belem Palace, March 31, 2015 The President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva ». Mrs. Members, this is the message of the President of the Republic and, having no time for debate on it, we will initiate the agenda, which we all know includes the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister in accordance with Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The frame of this debate is that of asking questions by the various parties, with the reply of the Prime Minister, without an initial intervention. The order in which the questions will be put by the various boards is as follows: PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Les Verdes. The first intervention is therefore Mr Ferro Rodrigues, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, today exactly four years ago the then President of the PSD, Pedro Passos Coelho, in response to a young woman who said « The PSD wants to end many things and even the 13th. the month," he said « we never discussed this, that is nonsense! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, it just didn't happen and much more, because the Constitutional Court didn't. Today, we are again on April 1st, and we hope that this debate will take place in another logic, not four years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Prime Minister, given the word « recovery », which is the key word in the petitions that the PSD and the CDS have resolved to move forward for this debate, it seems to me that we will not be far from that 1. o April 2011. Mr Prime Minister has very much used the theme of employment and unemployment as if they were very favourable themes for his political propaganda and, therefore, was somewhat perplexed by the results that INE presented a few days ago. It happens that for the PS, the issues of unemployment and employment have always been raised in the same tone, i.e. serious issues resulting from the economic crisis and the way this government has dealt with the recession in Portugal, because in addition to official unemployment, which has always been over 700 000 people, we still have in discouraged people who are no longer looking for jobs, more 250 000 people and, in unemployed people employed in training programmes, it is sometimes known in what conditions — we have had horrible descriptions of the pressures these people are subject to — more than 150 000 people, which means that there are about 1 1 million people. And the numbers aren't this last month, they've been like this over the last year. Therefore, what happened, the great surprise for the government was that official unemployment was higher than the expected one, exceeded the 14% barrier for the third consecutive month. And, more serious than that, six months ago, in official unemployment there is a drop in employment, so real unemployment is a terrible reality that affects Portuguese, which affects Portugal. The INE data also show that young unemployment is currently 35 %, even considering the stages that you are trying to create, among other things, to reduce the unemployment rate and therefore we are in a situation where employment took 20 years. however, the emigration of persons of active age during the period of their government exceeded 315 000, meaning 4, 6 % of the active population. in employment, we took 20 years; in emigration, we took 50 years. I ask you, then, Mr Prime Minister : from now on to six months, when you leave the government, do you not worry about the structural unemployment that is there and is denounced by all international institutions, as being a great danger to Portugal in the coming years? How does it explain that, even today in the European Parliament, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the PSD member here has almost succeeded in preventing the Juncker plan from targeting regions with more unemployment as a priority? He just didn't make it because that proposal won by one vote. How do you explain this, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u6	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I will not comment on the insinuations that you have made about the intentions that the majority banks have for this debate or not. But I had an expectation for this debate—don't go wrong! Although it is April 1, the day when, as much as I know, the leader of your party ceases to be President of the Chamber of Lisbon, to devote himself entirely to the tasks of the opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u7	Well needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u8	Let us hope that this will, of course, contribute to a better opposition. But my expectation for this debate, Mr President, was that, at the end of all this time, the Socialist Party could at least admit that the country's economy is growing — it has grown 0, 9 % in 2014 and practically all the institutions are reviewing the growth prospects for the current year, with 1, 5 % the minimum forecast for our economy's growth — and that, despite the difficulties we have experienced for several years of deep economic adjustment, we have actually achieved today, despite the latest data revealed by the INE, to achieve favourable performance in terms of both unemployment and employment, when we compare the results at the peak of the crisis two years ago. I thought that this should motivate some satisfaction on the part of the Socialist Party, because, in fact, these results have been achieved not by miracle, but as a result of much effort that has been developed, either under strong determination of public policies, or because the Portuguese truly believe that their future depends on this recovery. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] But Mr. Ferro Rodrigues did the opposite. And what did the honourable Member do? It hoped, of course, that the result of the National Institute of Statistics, which was released here a few days ago, would be a kind of great embarrassment to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u9	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u10	But it's not Mr. Deputies! Let me tell you it's not! The government treats these data with the same seriousness as it has dealt with all others so far. Moreover, I must tell you that the comments we have made on the evolution of unemployment from 2013 to today are not based on some kind of government guessing. All the observations we made were supported in the data that were disclosed by the National Institute of Statistics. It happens that the National Institute of Statistics has made sensitive reviews of its own data in recent months. Do it last year and you did it again now this year. The honourable Member must remember, of course, that, once again, last year, when the National Institute of Statistics released more negative data on the evolution of unemployment, I said: "I don't know if this is a trend reversal, it was a sign that appeared. We're gonna wait to see what's going on, but we don't even realize it! If unemployment gets worse, it will obviously deserve some reaction on our part. Do not keep on seeking. ” It happens that, recently, the National Institute of Statistics came to review these data, and came to review them up. So what seemed to be a trend towards unemployment was not. this time, the opposite happened: the National Institute of Statistics made a review to January, which was sensitive: it was from, practically, 0, 5 percentage points. It's a very sensitive review. Let me say, Mr President, that I do not yet know the basis for this review, because I did not hear from the National Institute of Statistics the appropriate grounds for a review of this amplitude, but there must certainly be because the National Institute of Statistics deserves to be trusted. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I don't know who's the excited deputy who's always...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u11	I asked Mr. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u12	Ah, it's Mr. Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u13	I asked Mr. João Galamba...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u14	One more surprise in this debate, Mr President! Another surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u15	Mr. João Galamba, the systematic parts boycott the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u16	in this case, Madam President, I even think it is a good animation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But I wanted to say to Mr Ferro Rodrigues that the government is still not in a position to make an explanation about what happened, because the review, as you have noticed, was sensitive. A statistical institute cannot review a statistic of these in half a percentage point without presenting a serious basis for this review. We are waiting for these foundations, because, as you know, statistics inform public decisions. Public policies, particularly in the area of employment and the economy, cannot fail to be based on statistical information. And in order to adjust public policies, we will have to see what is the basis for this situation. But there is one thing I know, Mr. Member, and that is important: even with this review, when we compare in homologous terms, unemployment is lower either in January or in February 2015 than it was in January or February 2014. Secondly, there is still too high, unsustainablely high level of unemployment that still deserves the attack on public policies. But I also know that the conditions ahead of us, both in terms of economic recovery and in terms of financial resources available for implementation, including programmes associated with European funds, to no longer speak under the general conditions of financing of the economy itself, are good advanced indicators that what we have before us is not, as you have already pointed out, the principle of the end of a misdirected strategy; it is, on the contrary, the principle of a successful recovery strategy in which the Government believes, and it is not for marketing reasons. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u17	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u18	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the first thing I wanted to say to you is that we were not waiting for an opportunity, since this is the third consecutive month in which official unemployment, according to INE, increases, and employment creation decreases. So we're not waiting for opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, be aware also of two things: for us, this day of April is not the day of lies, it is the day of truth. And it is with great pleasure and great honor that we see the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party dedicate himself in full time to the political struggle to go to that place! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also want to tell you something else: your political and personal disengagement with Mr Galamba... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...there's no kind of alliance here on this bench. You must respect all Members, one by one! And Mr Galamba is a great Member of this Parliament! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] Now, let's talk about economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let Mr Ferro Rodrigues continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u20	You spoke of economics and said, a few days ago, that Portugal would, I presume, continue to manage the destinations of the country, one of the most competitive countries in the world. Don't do it at all! Open... What happens is that also the damned statistical reviews that you so much complained about in employment recently also revised the recession for 2012 and 2013 — the INE, the INE! For 2012, the recession was reviewed from 3, 4 % to 4 % and from 1, 4 % to 1, 6. Which means that the GDP for 2014, that you here so much suffocated in the last debate, has less EUR 1, EUR 9 billion than what you presented here. This means that the investment for 2014 is EUR 505 million below what you presented, it is a higher downturn than the growth that had been presented here, related to 0, 9. Mr Prime Minister, the Banco de Portugal also showed us that 2014 was a record year, not only in exports, but also in public debt and tax burden of more than 37% of GDP, which had never been in Portugal! Therefore, Prime Minister, the recovery that you are talking about is a recovery that is an authentic mirage! Portugal, unfortunately, is not the oasis that others have already wanted to see for 20 or 25 years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to investment, the prolonged crisis of private investment and public investment is a very serious one, today highlighted by everyone at international level in the year in which, in order to achieve such a deficit of 3, 5 % or 4, 5 %, with extraordinary measures, you have cut into public investment in the last quarter in an absolutely inconceivable way, calling into question the situation of the country and the Portuguese economy! Don't you worry about the structural crisis of investment in Portugal? Don't you worry about how you're going to leave the country, with no growth prospects for the future? That's what I'm asking you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u21	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that I did not complain about any statistics. The honourable Member must not have listened to me well, or then I have not expressed myself correctly. I don't remember complaining about any statistics. I have observed the behavior they have, and this has to be done, we cannot account. He said « three consecutive months ago that unemployment has increased ». Now, sir, it is only now that the INE has come to say this! Just now, sir! The last fact that the National Institute of Statistics had was not that. So, honourable Member, what has happened was something that everyone has already understood: the National Institute of Statistics has made a correction — it is normal, in statistics, to make corrections. The corrections of this magnitude must have an explanation, and this explanation must be important in assessing the political decisions that we will make. That's all I said! I hope that the honourable Member is not against this remark I have made, because it seems to me to be a common sense. But the honourable Member said: 'Well, the results that Mr. Prime Minister here presents represent a mirage of recovery! » Again, he talks about unemployment and now he talks about what GDP has fallen in 2012. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, what GDP fell in 2012 does not invalidate anything, strictly nothing of what was the recovery in 2014 and what will be the recovery in 2015. Don't invalidate anything! I mean, while Mr.Deputy finds it interesting to go look for the 2012 numbers to say that the situation is bad, I'm going to look for the numbers not of 2012, but of 2014 and 2015, which show that the recovery is moving forward in Portugal. And this will be of much more interest to the Portuguese than to know what the 2012 statistical correction was. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u23	Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u24	Madam President, Prime Minister, you only like percentages, you don't like absolute values. What is important, what people eat are absolute values, they are not percentages! No one has lunch, no percentage dinner, Mr. Prime Minister! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I cannot fail to ask you the following question: in the last debate we had here, it ensured that there was no VIP list in the Tax Authority. Yesterday, the National Data Protection Commission revealed not only that there was a VIP list, as it was very restricted, had Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister Paulo Portas and Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio — curiously, he did not have the Minister of Finance, you know why! — and that, in addition, there was a total laxism in access to all taxpayers' data, by means of information technology and, since the last few months, I have known how many departments of computer, audit, security, a set of e-mails and exchanges of information on this issue, that everyone knew, except the government. This is something of absolutely extraordinary. We have never seen so much deresponsibility, so much a policy of « pass blame» as on this subject, although we have been used to what happened with the chaotic opening of the school year, with the blockade of justice and with the tragedy that occurred in the emergencies recently, in Portugal. But what happened to the Minister for Finance and to the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is indeed exceeding all limits. Do you speak in the autonomy of the Public Administration and in the autonomy of the tax administration? What they were supposed to talk about was accountability! Obviously, we would agree with a breakdown of the Public Administration, but what happened with the contests is that there has never been a partisanization of the Public Administration like now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's always chosen who's interim.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u25	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u26	unlike Mr. Prime Minister, who personally attacks Members, I would like to pay tribute to a PSD Member, Mr. Miguel Macedo, who knew in time and time what he had to do politically when he took on his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u27	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u28	His example and the example of the Deputy Prime Minister are not really the most inspiring examples for the rest of the government. I just want to ask you one question: how far is this kind of political dream? Repeat, sound politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u29	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u30	Madam President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I know that as the date of the elections approaches, the tone of grispation, let me tell you, artificially it will tend to grow in Parliament, but I will give you the shortest possible time for this crispation to which I will not correspond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u32	Mr President, let me answer your questions. One of them is on the VIP list. The honourable Member must remember what happened in this fortnightly debate in that he answered a question of his own. I do not know if you remember that you were — it seemed to me — a little upset that I used in the justification that I presented the data that had been communicated by the Tax Authority. Do you remember that? Remember that, of course. You remember that, of course, because this is important. He wanted me to say that a certain procedure did not even exist in the Administration. And I said, "Look, I don't know if there is or not, but what I can tell you is that the Tax Administration has denied this news." And you said to me at the time, and I am not transcribing words to you, because this is in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic and you can go check this out, but you have invested me by saying, 'No, it is not the Tax Authority, it is you! What do you have to say? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u33	He's responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u34	What you have to say is that the Tributary Authority has failed. And you know, Mr. Deputies, you didn't deny it anyway. Do so, at the time, in written information you sent to the government. For this reason, the Director-General, who gave the Government incorrect information on this matter, considered that he should resign. And I thought that Mr. Director-General did very well, because he cannot misinformed the government of the procedures that the Administration takes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u35	And it's all settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u36	But, Mr President, I can say, as I told you then, that there was no instruction from the Government so that anything similar to the procedure which has been referred to has been carried out. Secondly, the Government cannot therefore assume a political responsibility for something that did not depend on its political instruction. Thirdly, the Government will not fail to look at the results which have been disclosed by the National Data Protection Commission in such a way as to seek to remove the illusions that are necessary to safeguard the duty of reservation, confidentiality and tax secrecy that is due to any citizen. Of course, the content of the report that has been presented concerns us, but we are concerned about any citizen. Finally, Mr President, I would like to reaffirm that, because I was unable to do so at the time, that we will not, following the report itself, allow the General Finance Inspection to come forward to draw all the conclusions on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u37	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister. You've already exceeded enough time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u38	In conclusion, Madam President, and I thank you for your understanding, Madam President, and that of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to conclude by saying to the honourable Member that there is not only any partisanization of the Public Administration,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u39	... as there are many, not one, are numerous, examples that testify to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u40	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u41	But the honourable Member knows that there is at least one person on his own bench who is a Member and who, while he is a Member, will not take over the location for which he has been selected and chosen. But it is not, Mr President, that may be true, unusual.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u42	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u43	But one extraordinary thing that surprises me is that you have repeatedly stated your opposition to a system that does not allow the leaders to be selected on the basis of party colour, but rather in favour of their competence and alternatively defends a system, which was what existed before, of pure political-party choice in the appointment of places. And that's what I don't understand, sir. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u44	To put questions, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u45	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is a debate on political current too, there is a fact that you should not be absent. There were elections last Sunday for the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira and this is therefore an occasion for us to be able to greet the Madeiran people who expressed their political will freely, democraticly and categorically. I also take advantage of welcoming all the candidates and, in particular, the winning candidate, Dr. Miguel Albuquerque, and also those who will cease to serve, in particular the current President of the Regional Government of Madeira, Dr. Alberto João Jardim, and Mr. Prime Minister, who is also the President of the PSD, for the expressive victory that the PSD has obtained in these elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We know that they were regional elections, but there are some signs that are unequivocal. There are at least two. The first is that in Madeira, as in the country, the engine of change, transformation, progress and, above all, hope is the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u47	Come in the trumpets!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u48	On the other hand, there is another political sign that is relevant: the Socialist Party, its political and programmatic strategy, which, moreover, had the blessing of the current Secretary-General, Dr. António Costa, transmitted hopelessness, tactics and irresponsibility to the electorate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] These signs are political, but have not been decreed by the parties, were decreed by the people who, as I said recently, expressed their will in a free and democratic manner and said on which side is hope, and on which side is hopelessness. Speaking in hope, Prime Minister, we have already discussed on many occasions the realism of some and the pretense unrealisticism of others, the optimism of some and the pessimism of others, the correctness of some and the failure of others with regard to macroeconomic forecasts and projections. Now, Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned, and I would like to return to this subject, which in recent weeks, Banco de Portugal, Fundo Internacional, Commission, European Central Bank, today even the OECD, rating agencies and even the Council of Public Finance, have all converged in a sense: they approached, and many even surpassed, those which were the projections of this majority and the Government. This has brought together historical levels of confidence, both for consumers and for entrepreneurs. This is therefore a debate to ask ourselves : and the opposition? Has the opposition reviewed your projections? The opposition that, in the debate of the State Budget for 2015, said that he was unrealistic, unrealistic! Since today is the first day of the rest of Dr. António Costa's life as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and I would also like to say to you, the first day of many years of opposition, is therefore the day to ask you: what is Dr. António Costa's projection of the performance of our economy? He will continue to say, as Mr Ferro Rodrigues said in previous debates: « Listen to the troika, hear the International Monetary Fund! Even they are suspicious of what the government's objectives are! "?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u49	It's true! It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u50	Are you going to keep saying this, sir? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] No, they are now based on unemployment data. We have always said, Prime Minister, that unemployment is our main problem and that it is also our main objective. We have always said, and it is true, that unemployment is at a high level, but we have also said that it comes in a declining line. It is true that we need to deepen the latest data revealed by the National Institute of Statistics, but it is also true that unemployment continues to decline, especially when compared with the same periods of previous years. That's all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u51	Unemployment is rising, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u52	So, Prime Minister, I would say to you that the best way to look at employment and unemployment figures is to realize that we will only continue to lower the unemployment rate if the economy continues to grow and if it grows as much as what all these entities have for these days said in a very unequivocal way. We know, Prime Minister, that it is not easy to ask for realism to oppose and it is not easy today to ask for realism from the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party has, in fact, revealed very disorientation. One day, the President of the Socialist Party ensures that, with the Socialist Party in the Government, taxpayers will pay the losses of the injured by the Banco Espírito Santo. on the other day, he has already said that it was not quite what he meant about the commercial role of the Holy Spirit Group! That wasn't good! on January 25, Dr. António Costa said, and I quote, « The victory of Syriza is a sign of change that gives strength to follow that same line ». I read Dr. António Costa on January 25. Now, on 11 March, he came to say: « The more clumsy the Greek Government is, the more constructive we have to be». [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, it is not easy to be realistic in the Socialist Party when there is this disorientation, when there is this confusion, to stop talking about those speeches on the map when we have a certain audience in front of us. So the question that arises, Prime Minister, is simple and this is: can the Portuguese feel safe in this party, the Socialist Party, and in this disorientation? Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u53	Wait six months!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u54	Let's see, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is appropriate to say that the Maderians had reason last Sunday and they will have reason to have the Portuguese there for September/October, when they also have to make that judgment! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you a question which we consider to be very important at this bench. Angola has had a very significant weight in our economy, either by the Angolan direct investment that is made in Portugal, either because it is an important destination of our exports, or because there are companies with activity and investments in Angola — about 9000, according to the most recent data –, or because of the circumstance of about 200 000 Portuguese being working in that territory today. Now, we know that at present there are increased difficulties affecting the Angolan economy, mainly motivated by the fall in the price of oil, which are also having some impact on this economic dynamics between the two countries. And we report that there are several difficulties at the level of financing, at the level of the treasury of Portuguese companies, so that they can continue their investments. I believe it is important to be able to ask the Government what follow-up has been done on this situation and whether there is any measure that can be presented and can reduce this negative effect among companies. I believe that it is a matter of relevance to the Portuguese, to this whole dynamic of business and economic relations and to which the government should not be outside. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, returning to an issue which has been raised here. Shortly ago, Mr Rodrigues asked whether we were not concerned, if this majority did not care about the legacy that would leave at the end of this term. I would like to say on behalf of the PSD bench that we are very concerned about the situation of Portuguese families and Portuguese companies. We're very worried. But more than we are concerned, it motivates us to work that we are still going to do in the last six months and to work that we will continue to do, with a majority in Parliament, in the next four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u55	however, I cannot fail to signal, Mr. Prime Minister, that coming from whoever comes, from a bench so filled with distinguished militants and leaders of the Socialist Party, many of whom sat, between 2005 and 2011, there, at the government bench, and so many who sat on the PS bench, all of them never cared about the situation that led the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u56	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u57	... they have never cared, to the point that in the last four years, they have been with the Portuguese when it took sacrifices, effort, to deal with the crisis in which they left us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u58	Frankly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u59	Mr. Prime Minister, it is for these and others that the Madeirans have already responded and that all Portuguese will probably also answer from here in half a year. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u60	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u61	Madam President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I also thank you for your congratulations to the President of the PSD, but you know that it is not that quality I am here and therefore it is not a topic that I am going to address. In any case, I would like to respond to your comments on employment and unemployment issues. They have already been raised by Mr Ferro Rodrigues and I believe that this is a good opportunity to deepen this answer. We know that in Portugal we have a structural problem of unemployment that was not born with the economic and financial crisis of 2011. This is the first time we have to keep in mind. We know that many of the restrictive policies have been adopted because of the need to balance the public deficit and therefore to contain public expenditure have had an effect on the economy and, as we know, even with the revisions of the National Institute of Statistics, we had a contraction of our gross domestic product (GDP) which was sensitive. However, I would like to point out that after the significant review that the National Institute of Statistics, two years later, made about the 2012 GDP, 0, 7 percentage points is very much. It would also be desirable to understand exactly what the composition of this review is, because it is not yet clear what it has sat down and is significant. Still, we compare very well with other countries that have gone through processes such as ours. It is the case in particular of Ireland and Greece that had much higher contractions of their Product. Greece has contracted at least one fifth of its Product and, in the case of Ireland, over 8 %. Still, we'll have contracted less. I am not referring, of course, to the amounts that can be made every year of the percentages recorded, but between the difference between the base year and the year that is being observed, because that is how the account is made. There is no need to make the gross mistake of adding percentages every year. However, even with this revision of the INE, we can conclude — which is not negative but positive — that countries which have undergone very similar processes to ours have contracted their gross domestic product in a much more significant way than Portugal. However, I cannot forget that we had a working population which in 2010 was at the same level as 1998 before the crisis and the measures that are included in the adjustment process. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues is aware of this, of course. In 2010, almost a year before this government took possession, employment in Portugal was at the level of 1998, which is something that for regressive purposes says something about the structural problem that was inherited in 2011. In other words, over the years Portugal has been losing employment and has increased its unemployment, regardless of the economic cycle. Even when the economy grew, unemployment was there. This means that the problem we have to solve with regard to unemployment is beyond the problem of adjustment and is related to the fundamentals of what has led over the years to the loss of competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and, therefore, to the structural profile of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u62	This is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u63	What does the OECD tell us, for example, that we have collaborated with—is it not this government in particular, but several Portuguese governments have been working together over the years with the OECD on this subject? One thing very similar to what other institutions tell us: that if we fail to structurally change the profile of the Portuguese economy, if we do not pursue the meaning of reforms, if we do not stop the process of public debt, reducing the public deficit, creating all surplus years that allow us to decline the public debt rate in the country, if we fail to achieve this, then the risk profile of Portuguese public debt will be greater,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u64	By the way, no investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u65	... structural unemployment will tend to consolidate, so unemployment will not be due because active employment policies do not have the capacity to solve these problems at structural level. We therefore do what we need in terms of short- and medium-term policies. Like any competent government, we seek to take stock of all the policies that improve the position of workers in relation to the labour market, but we know that structurally we only change the profile of our economy if we change the profile of qualifications, competences, if we lead the financing for the sectors that are reproductive, i.e. that create wealth and create permanent jobs and not for those who generate unemployment, which generate incomes that are not justified, many of which we have come to dismantle since we are in government. It is this process that has to continue so that the happy end, which Mr Luís Montenegro has in a way formulated as he wishes, can happen. Any political regression towards the structural reforms undertaken, the fiscal consolidation efforts that have been made to offset the deficit and the outstanding debts will be too expensive for Portuguese and Portugal. And, Mr President, whatever the outcome of the elections—and I do not have a crystal ball and therefore it is of little interest to the desire I make here—or we pursue this path on which we believe and will not return to the levels of regression that we could observe until the government that preceded us at the level of investment, at the level of employment and at the level of the creation of wealth in the country, or then the Portuguese will have the chance to know a much worse result than the one that has already had. But I have a very constructive view and I seriously believe that we will pursue this path in which we believe, because it does not result in an obstinacy either of the Prime Minister or of the Ministers, or of the majority who support them, it is a very great resilience and determination of the Portuguese, who are not willing to risk their own fate in political crises and future uncertainties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u66	This makes me believe that this is a way to continue after the elections. Mr Luís Montenegro also asked me a question about Angola. Obviously we do not ignore what is happening in Angola and the Government has sought, at the most various levels, to understand the constraints that have resulted for economic relations between the two countries and also for Portuguese companies, both for those exporting to Angola and for those in the Angolan economy producing for Angola. We know, after our meetings, of the evaluation that was made between the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance, essentially between these two entities, but also with the cooperation of the Banco de Portugal, that there are solutions that can reduce some of the uncertainty that makes, at this time, Portuguese companies have difficulties or maintain the level of export to Angola that they had before - and we know how exports fell to Angola only in January - or, then, in repatriating, let us say so, capitals of Angola. We are studying some solutions, not one, but several. Some demand the cooperation of the Government of Angola and Angolan companies and, therefore, not unilaterally dependent on the Portuguese Government or the Portuguese Parliament, it is not up to me here to comment on them, just to tell the honourable Member that we are working with, in particular, the Angolan Government to see if we have found some solutions which, in the past, have already proved, in similar circumstances, that can support certain guarantees for Portuguese companies. But there are other solutions that can only depend on us if they do not have a very large budgetary weight.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u67	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u68	And I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we are examining precisely the possibility of extending certain guarantees, through the Mutual Guarantee Societies, in order to be able, in terms of treasury, to bear part of the exchange risk which is inherent in ways to solve treasury responsibilities, therefore, in the short and medium term, for many of these Portuguese companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, Madam President, I am convinced that the Government will be in a very near position to announce concrete measures that can reduce these effects. No, of course, contrary to what is the restriction that the price of oil has brought to the Angolan economy, because that we cannot replace, but reduce the difficulties of some companies and give them, above all, some ability to find better solutions for short-term financing with their own banks, especially those which in their treasury can be fundamental to retain employment and maintain their level of activity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u69	The next intervention is the CDS-PP. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, I just wanted to make a previous note. On Monday, Dr. António Costa, Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, spoke against this model of 15-year debates. Dr. António Costa said that they bring an excessive cliché to the debate, which gives, in essence, an idea of artificial confrontation which is detrimental to the necessary debate of ideas and that all this was bad for democracy. After this intervention by the Socialist Party, Prime Minister, it is appropriate to say that, taking into account the statements by Antonio Costa and today the intervention by the Socialist Party, on political sonsicity we are actually talking about. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u71	But, Prime Minister, I would like to say to you, and also to Mr Ferro Rodrigues, why do we choose'recovery' for our subject of debate—yes, recovery, Mr Rodrigues! One year ago, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, Portugal was trying to finalise a programme of socialist economic and financial assistance, negotiated and signed by the former Government of Eng.o Socrates ; it was still in what we designated by government or co-government of creditors and the major issues — Mr. Prime Minister will remember — it will certainly be — that here they were discussing whether Portugal would or would not leave the programme, whether or not it would have a second rescue, whether or not it would be clean or with a cautious programme, whether or not we were in recession, whether or not unemployment would exceed 17 %, as it did at the time. The truth is, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, and that is why we are talking about recovery, is that one year later Portugal has gone out, and has left the aid programme of the Troika of the Socialist Party cleanly, unemployment — and we are going there — despite the latest data, it has a global downward trend and the discussion is no longer whether we are in recession but are going to grow 1, 6 %, 1, 7 % or 2 %. Yes, sir, it's quite different. As someone said and rightly so, the country is different. And it is different not only in relation to four years, in which the discussion was whether from there to 15 days we would have money to pay essential functions of the State, such as pensions and reforms, the country is different in relation to one year ago, when you spoke in a recessive spiral, they said that the country would not be able, and it was, in a clean way, to leave in a manner worthy of a difficult program to which you led us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is true, Mr. Prime Minister, that in this bench we do not like to do as a certain opposition, which only talks about and only what interests you. When unemployment rises, it rises; when it goes down, it goes down. When unemployment rises, it's bad; when unemployment goes down, it's good. It has come up, it is true, Mr. Prime Minister, and we have no problems of any kind nor will we find excuses or external facts to justify this news. But you have to say everything. It must be said that in the last 23 months, unemployment has fallen in 19 months. It must be said that we were close to 18% and that today we are 14%, that we are improving, that we are even converging with socialist unemployment, of the time of fat cows in 2010 and 2011 that they left us. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u72	But isn't that a heavy inheritance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u73	You mean it's okay? He's not! As we have always said, and Mr Prime Minister said here, and very well, in the last fortnight's debate, the biggest social fracture in the country is unemployment, which must be the first, second and third priorities of this government or any other responsible government. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that we do not hide facts that are bad for the country, because we do not have that view that the opposition has to «what is good for the government is bad for us, opposition», or that what may be less good for the opposition is good for us, if it is bad for the country. We like to look at all the facts. And from then on, since the last half-year debate, unemployment is true, it has not come down as we would like. But it is true or not — and I have not yet heard it here today — that the Banco de Portugal has reviewed its forecasts of growth, improving the forecasts it had before? Is it not true that the Council of Public Finance accepts a growth of more than 2 % from 2016, without further action? I repeat, no more measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u74	What a beautiful spring!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u75	And recently, even the OECD, so often quoted when the opposition was critical of this government and today no one is talking about the OECD. As far as the deficit is concerned, we have met. We have had a deficit that has become a real deficit of 11, 2 %, inherited from the socialist government, today we meet and of course we will meet the goal. This, Prime Minister, also has to do with the international credibility we enjoy. Have you noticed that no one talks about Mr. Mario Draghi today? It is that Mr. Mario Draghi, a week ago, came to refute a whole narrative of a certain opposition, even with some injustice, with some ingratitude for the Portuguese opposition, which made Mr. Mario Draghi a kind of Super-Draghi, of Super-Mario, because everything that happened good in Portugal and in Europe was because of Mr. Mario Draghi. Now, let's see an authentic interpretation and we see Mr. Mario Draghi denying, disallowing, saying that Portugal is taking full advantage of the benefits of the policies of recent years. Mr Prime Minister, perhaps this justifies, as mentioned here, that the trust of families today is at the level of 2002 13 years ago and that the trust of entrepreneurs, especially in industry and trade, has risen, because the country has recovered international credibility and, with this, international trust, and with it, more and more investment and, with this, obviously, confidence from the perspective of entrepreneurs as well as of their own families. I would therefore like to say to you, Prime Minister, that if the country withdrew 15 years ago it was when, four years ago, more, less, the then Minister Teixeira dos Santos was to renegotiate the Memorandum, which was indeed, in many cases, a humiliation to one of the oldest nations in Europe. And in those 15 years that Dr. António Costa speaks, and it's good to remember, who was the government, Prime Minister? of these 15, in 13 years the government was the Socialist Party. Perhaps, it is a self-criticism on the part of Dr. António Costa, but I don't think it has been perceived by the Socialist Party's bench. Of course, we are aware of the challenges, we realize that even more needs to be recovered, we need to combat even more this social scourge, which is unemployment, especially young unemployment, and for this we need to make good use of not only the funds but the obligations that Portugal has, at European level. Mr Prime Minister will certainly know that Portugal must soon present a national reform plan in the European Union, which is a complex plan, with tight rules and which, above all, to sustain and be solid, requires political stability in our view, and therefore it is important that there be a commitment between the various partisan forces to make it lasting and stable. It is public that Mr. Prime Minister, and well, asked for contributions to civil society and the party forces represented in the Assembly of the Republic for this plan. My question is precisely this, Mr Prime Minister: what is the point of the situation you can make with regard to this plan, with regard to what the Government thinks but, above all, with regard to the contributions it has received from the opposition? It is that these contributions are a good measure of the sense of state, of the sense of responsibility and national interest of the opposition and this will also be important for the Portuguese to judge. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u76	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u77	Madam President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I must say that I also found the evocation that made the criticisms directed by the leader of the Socialist Party at least to the model of debate for the fortnight, which, moreover, is due to innovations that were defended by the Socialist Party itself. I tend to waste little time on these matters, however, I mean that I accompany and bear witness to the need to go and deconstruct this artificialism which, often, our debates trigger outwards. That does not mean that there is no confrontation of positions and ideas and that, when we are convinced of what we stand for, any of this conviction cannot seem to be a parliamentary aggression. But we all have to make a contribution, I think, to distinguish the two things and the best contribution we can make to this is to focus more, hopefully, on the analysis of the facts and on what we defend and less on the personal attack. from this point of view, Mr, I believe that I have sought, as far as I am concerned, to make the best contribution I can to these debates and will not fail to do so in the electoral timetable before us. In any case, he referred to the so-called political regression which has been heated up in the political discourse of the leader of the major opposition party. And that reminds me again, as I have already mentioned, that there are several important elements in our economy that have been in regression for several years, very negative regression, as I said here: unemployment, public or private investment — one depends on the state and, therefore, the State must respond more politically to it, the other obviously not only depends on the state, but depends much on public policies, and the same is true of the performance of our economy. In per capita terms, the performance of our economy until the 2011 crisis was mediocre enough to match the one registered by Japan in full deflation, in what became known as the « lost decade », and by the United States of America in the so-called Great Depression. In per capita terms, Portugal's performance was this before the crisis. Something was wrong, of course. As far as unemployment is concerned, we are still concerned. I have said it here in previous debates, but I will insist on this point. There is a level of unemployment that affects certain Portuguese classes, long-term unemployment, which is usually associated with very protected sectors of the economy that have disappeared and that will not return, which is associated with very low qualifications that are not easy to overcome. They are not diplomas of the New Opportunities that solve this problem, the problem is not statistical, the problem is effective, it is how to give these people effective competences to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u78	They're done with the programs! They're done with the New Opportunities!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u79	It's not easy, it's not easy, sir. If it were, structural unemployment, when we started this adjustment process, was not at the level at which it was too high now more than twice as much as the country average 10 years ago. Therefore, long-term unemployment and young unemployment, which reaches almost 35 % or 36 %, is unsustainable and must demand very determined policies. My conviction, Mr, is that in the reforms we have come to align and in the investment conditions ahead of us it will be easier to successfully tackle these structural problems. For example, even today, we announced the diagnosis that was sponsored by the OECD for more than a year on the competences of Portuguese workers. It is a work that we will continue with the OECD because it can give us very relevant clues to public policies that can be developed, some including measures designed to measure these problems, so that they can succeed. So we won't give up doing it. But we will have, in competitions that have already been opened at the level of Portugal 2020, important means to re-qualify human potential and it is the first time that in terms of social capital we have the possibility of having an autonomous programme to run some of the initiatives. This means, therefore, that in the means we will have at our disposal—and I want to take advantage of it to say that 2015 will be the year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u80	Year of elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u81	... from many years ago to this part, where probably more financial resources are being implemented simultaneously, either because we are closing the previous framework, the QREN, or because we are launching nearly EUR 2000 million of new measures that are already being introduced in Portugal 2020 — we will have conditions throughout 2015 to be able to respond to some of these problems and recover investment levels that are important. I conclude by answering your question on the National Reform Programme. In fact, we asked both the parties with parliamentary seats and the social partners to a very broad range of institutions and entities to send us contributions to the National Reform Programme. Since we have been in adjustment for three years with the PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ), we have not updated the National Reform Programme. And for the first time, we will present a stability programme and also a National Reform Programme, which will, however, have to reflect both the specific recommendations for Portugal produced by the European Commission and endorsed by the European Council and, at the same time, we will have to design the medium- and long-term reforms for the Portuguese economy and for public policies. I must say that, according to the information of the Minister for Finance, contributions generally did not take this perspective into account. So yesterday I think it has followed a new communication for all of these entities, inviting them to re-submit their contributions, having now as a background the stability programme to be presented, which is the other side of the national reform programme currency, but above all the specific recommendations that have been endorsed by the European Council and issued by the European Commission. In any case, we will not fail to make this process as transparent as possible and therefore all the contributions we receive will be accessible to all and any citizen, we will not let them advertise. however, Mr President, I would like to say that the Government will, prior to the sending to Brussels of this National Reform Programme and its Stability Programme, give rise to the discussion of the two documents in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. We shall request, through the Conference of Leaders, the scheduling of a debate on this matter to make it clear what the options each of us wants to pursue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u82	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u83	... on medium-term reforms of the Stability Programme, which is as you say, to marry responsibility with medium- and long-term ambition. And there, Mr President, I believe that the Government is very comfortable in the proposals it will bring to this Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u84	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u85	Mr President, Prime Minister, the information that has come to the public and in particular the information that results from the deliberations of the National Data Protection Commission, gives an issue whose gravity goes far beyond the problem of the existence of the VIP list or even its own understanding. What is now confirmed is that a tax data system is created that does not comply with the rules for the protection of personal data, which allows private companies to have access to taxpayer tax data and, above all, it is confirmed that an exception regime has been created with a VIP list, which has given a group of citizens the data protection that is denied to all other Portuguese and which includes, under very doubtful circumstances, the State Secretary for Tax Affairs himself. Since the beginning of the PCP was very clear in what he said: the protection of tax data is a right of all citizens and not a prerogative of a VIP set, and it is not acceptable to create privileges regimes. The problem now is one: but what will be the consequences? The Portuguese tax data are at the mercy of private companies; the legal data privacy rules are not respected; an exception regime has been created and hidden since October last year with a VIP list. The two officials of the Tax Authority say that they did everything without the knowledge of the Secretary of State, the three have deceived the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister himself publicly repeated information that was wrong. The National Data Protection Commission says there is evidence of crime. And is everything resolved with the resignation of technical officers? Is there no political responsibility for who is responsible for the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Authority? Mr Prime Minister may consider that this question I am asking is not valid, but it is already the question of the credibility of the government itself. Do you not even worry about the credibility of your government, Prime Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u87	Madam President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I have little to add to what you have said and I will answer your final question. We have taken note of the report by the National Data Protection Commission and, as you say, and very well, the report points to a general problem, which means, therefore, that it is not just a few personalities, starting with the Prime Minister, who are at risk of seeing their tax information devastated, because this problem, being potentially within the reach of private companies, affects any citizen. Well, that's serious, sir. It's serious, of course! How serious it is that it may have existed, if there exists, or indeed existed, a filter or a list with the characteristics that have been described.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u88	It really did exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u89	The Government — and I insist again, Mr President, because I think this is important — has given no instruction, guidance or comfort whatsoever to this type of procedure. There had been even comfort to this type of procedure and I assure you that this political responsibility would be shaken. Now, I don't have as a politician, I never thought it was very interesting — Mr. Members know this and I know that they prefer to praise the members of the government who ask for resignation — that people "wash their hands" of their responsibilities. [[PCP protests.]] I always liked people taking on their responsibilities. So I find these situations very exceptional. And, fortunately, until today, they have always had an exceptional character, not to say very exceptional and justified. Therefore, honourable Member, the standard is not: "there is a problem, dismissing someone". That is not my way of doing it, Mr President. If we have problems, they have to settle. And this problem, which has been detected by the National Data Protection Commission, will no longer be the subject of recommendations and policy guidelines in this area, because we have a duty to safeguard the reservation, the confidentiality of tax data, whoever it is. I assure you, Mr President, that, at the end of the presentation of the report that the General Financial Inspection will conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u90	For the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u91	... that has a more comprehensive look than this, because we want to know that other procedures could be running towards protecting this data, who suggested, who has executed any filter experience that might have this configuration, when we have this information all, we will not fail to act. But in view of what the National Data Protection Commission has found, we will not fail to respond to this. In any case, I mean two things, sir. The first is this: any evidence of crime that may exist here is about not the procedure itself but the fact that confidentiality has been violated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u93	Therefore, I must say that I am not embarrassed that the Attorney-General of the Republic investigates and accuses whoever has to accuse, who has committed any crime in this field, and the Government will not fail to refer all the elements to the Attorney-General of the Republic in this regard. As simple as this! The second concerns the following: we must preserve the credibility of the Tax Authority. I believe that the progress we have made over the years in this area of the Tax and Customs Authority is very important and essential to a country that is said to be modern, developed and wants to support an advanced social state. Without an advanced tax administration, we do not have an advanced social state. Countries that have a great deal of difficulty in taxing and having a minimally fair tax system cannot support their social policies. Therefore, it is very important for us to maintain the credibility of the Tax and Customs Authority, it is very important « to separate the wheat from the juicy» and to say that, if there were signs of crime, if there were disciplinary processes that were depoled to find out the responsibility, even simply discipline, that may exist in violations of the tax secret that may have occurred, this should not be confused with the Tax and Customs Authority as a whole, with the generality of the officials of the Tax and Customs Authority and, therefore, with what is the prestige of that institution and its employees. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u94	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem is not in the prestige of the Tax and Customs Authority, the problem is in the prestige of this government, particularly the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State. Therefore, this lack of credibility constitutes the greatest threat to the prestige of this sector. But I would like to ask you another question, which is also of great importance today. Today, it is the first day of the end of milk quotas, the consequences of which can be dramatic for producers and for a sector where we are self-sufficient. Now, I would like to hear what you have to say to the milk producers. At a time when we need to increase production, our productive apparatus, create jobs, your government does exactly the opposite. Shall we, Prime Minister, be a mere deposit of the surpluses of the Nordic countries? Does it accept the destruction of dairy farms and consequently jobs, both in production and in processing? We're talking about work. We're talking about national production, Prime Minister. And what is the answer? I would like to endorse the proposal of this kind, which will, in the future, prove that it will have dramatic and tragic effects on our economy, particularly on this sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u96	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u97	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we do not have to tell producers anything different from what we have said over these years, since we knew that the end of this protection was scheduled for these quotas. We are fighting, in terms of European union, to enable them to endure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u98	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u99	... this is that they could for longer favour other investment and competitiveness opportunities for Portuguese producers, but we know, several years ago, that this day would have to come and we cannot be in the European Union with two sides, i.e. accepting everything that it has good for us, but rejecting anything that might not favour this or other sector. Therefore, Mr President, it is very simple: we have come to prepare ourselves, and also the Portuguese producers for this day. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u100	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u101	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I think it was a startling expression, after all, of your concern about employment and Portugal, in relation to our deficits, particularly the food deficit, the acrylic way in which a European Union decided to threaten a sector of death, considering that we have to graze because the European Union has decided. That is the problem: it is often lacking patriotic brio to defend our national interests, particularly in the European Union. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I raise one last question. Mr. Prime Minister, last week in Japan, and yesterday here, announced that Portugal will be one of the most competitive nations in the world, a statement that some may understand as a kind of « presumption and water sale... », as if we did not know what it meant and what it has behind it. But what is the government planning to do to ensure this statement? It's just that the statement applies to you, but it doesn't justify anything. Is it developing our scientific capacity when we see this government pushing thousands of Portuguese scientists abroad, calling into question the renewal and expansion of human, technical and scientific infrastructure, which is a fundamental element of production? Is it investment in science and education, which are subject to cuts and more cuts? Is it technological development, when the whole policy is geared towards closing research units, destroying national laboratories and other public infrastructures for research and development? Is it improving the environment conducive to the production of all economic activities, i.e. reducing high energy prices, fuel prices, transport, money prices? Don't! I did not say this, but I think it is the continuation of the massive transfer of labour income to the large economic and financial groups, as you have been doing, particularly with cuts in wages and changes in labour law. These are policies to devalue labour force with this element which will certainly use: We have an army of unemployed people who pressure those who have jobs: come because, in fact, we will put Portugal not at the top of competitiveness, but at the top of exploitation and impoverishment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u102	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u103	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance has welcomed Portugal to have its safes full, referring to a financial pillow. We all know that countries have to have a financial cushion on matters of prudence and good management. We also know that the size of the financial cushion, which was discussed in Parliament, must be around EUR 7 billion, has been much higher than this value. I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister how our financial pillow is, how full are the safes of Maria Luís Albuquerque. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u104	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u105	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, there is now an issue which, I am sure, you have discussed with the Minister of Finance here in Parliament, as you have recalled. I just wanted to say, because this seems to me to be relevant, that the financial cushion that Portugal has, that is, the deposits we have maintained and that have represented a highly recommended policy of prudence in the context in which we live, are also a mirror of the confidence that the markets have shown by the Portuguese debt and, on the other hand, that allows us to go producing early payment, in particular loans from the International Monetary Fund, which have been contracted at a significantly higher interest rate than that which has been available to us in recent months. Therefore, we have not only prudently constituted this reserve to deal with the volatility that the market can show, as we are still accumulating deposits in order to make the early repayment, under better conditions, i.e. by hiring new loans at lower costs than those we had, which represents a significant saving for the coming years and every fiscal year. I therefore believe that the honourable Member should certainly be satisfied with this performance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u106	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u107	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, there must be a difference between having a financial pillow for good management or having the debt-filled safes for the country. What we know is that this pillow has always been much higher than what was discussed here in Parliament and that at the end of last year was EUR 17 billion, more or less the equivalent that the State spends in one and a half years in education and in the National Health Service. Now, this is no longer a pillow! This is a pillow, the sheets, the bed, the room, the whole house, Mr. Prime Minister! We can find a joke in the image of Maria Luís Albuquerque scuba diving in a chest full of coins, such as Uncle Patinhas. But the problem is that coins are not her. The problem is, these safes are full of debts. The Public Finance Council did a study in which it said that, if the value of EUR 1500 million was returned, on the overtax of IRS and cuts in wages and pensions — such a modest value vis-à-vis this pillow; even if we took these EUR 17 billion, 1500 million to pay what was withdrawn from the economy and people, the financial cushion still stood above EUR 15 billion, so much above the values we discussed here in Parliament — if this money were returned to the people to whom it was taken, the economy could grow by 2 % and the impact on the deficit would be only tenfold. Therefore, Prime Minister, because I do not understand and because it should also be very difficult for anyone in this country to understand, explain to us why a little bit of this pillow cannot serve to pay what Mr. Prime Minister owes, in excess of IRS, wages and pensions, to those who worked and worked in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u109	Madam President, Mrs Deputies asks the question in such a way that the natural conclusion to be drawn would be: that is only because of pure evil; that is evil; the government has a mission to make the evils worse for its citizens and therefore preserves means that have a certain cost only to be able to provoke the irritation of the Portuguese and the curse of the opposition when it questions the government ; it is the government that has a certain pleasure in this! I don't know if this ironic answer would do you any good, but that wouldn't be the answer I would like to give to the honourable Member. The answer I would like to give you is another: the Portuguese, today, know very well the cost of recklessness and also know very well not only the cost of not having reservations to deal with the circumstances of occasional financing, but above all, of not having credibility to obtain funding. If the Government had done what the honourable Member has suggested over these years, and which has been again implicit in its question, then it would be that the interest on public debt and the conditions for financing the Portuguese public debt, and the Republic, would not therefore be those that allowed the accumulation of these reserves, the advance payment to the International Monetary Fund and out there. It would be exactly the opposite because, unfortunately, Greece is happening again. That, Mrs. Member, I don't want and I don't understand how you can wish for your own country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u110	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u111	Madam President, Prime Minister, notice that I did not tell you not to have a pillow. What I told you was that with a small part the economy grew and returned what it owed to those who worked and worked in this country. That is what we are talking about: paying debts, debts to whom you build this country. And Mr. Prime Minister has to pay. Mr. Prime Minister, it is very difficult to understand your explanation when, above all, we see what happens, for example, with BES and with the New Bank. We remind ourselves of Mr. Prime Minister saying, last summer, almost at the propaganda event, that he would not go public torso for BES. We know that this is not true — only in the Resolution Fund are EUR 3900 million! And now, Mr. Prime Minister, who is so concerned about the future, has, above all, a tax credit promise to whom he buys the New Bank of almost EUR 3000 million, almost twice as much as necessary to restore the IRS surcharge, the pensions and salaries that have been cut. For this it does not have EUR 1500 million, but for future tax credits, i.e. tax bills, which the New Bank will not pay and, therefore, we will pay all those who work and have worked in this country, there is already twice as much: EUR 2865 million. Therefore, Prime Minister, explain to me again, whether I understand and whether the country understands, how it is possible that a country of safes full does not have EUR 1500 million to return, in excess of IRS, to wages and pensions, to whom it has worked and worked, but to have nearly EUR 3000 million to give tax credit to whom to buy the New Bank! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u112	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not mind explaining. However, I have well-founded doubts that, after an interactive process, which is already long, the honourable Member is interested in understanding. The question you might make might be better answered if you read the rest of the explanations that the President of the Public Finance Council gave, to the extent that he mentioned them to ask, if you would have such a small impact on the public accounts, why would we not have to use this money for the rest? Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Public Finance said that since 2016, in 2015, the Council of Public Finance said, we must have a deficit of less than 3 %, of about 2, 8 %, so very close to the government target, as we do not know what the budgetary assumptions are, what measures are going to fall in the meantime, what are they going to stand for, we will start from the reasoning that the restrictions that still exist on public expenditure will all be removed and that we have a small problem: the economy may grow a little bit more in the short term, but we will again create excessive deficit and macroeconomic imbalance. This is said by the President of the Council of Public Finance and is contained in the last report of this Council. I don't know if this will answer your question. That is, if we had done what the Left Block has been recommending, in a very short time we would not only use the reserves that we would have as we would create conditions so that we could not accumulate any more reserves in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u114	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u115	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then we accept that Mr Prime Minister has a better proposal than that of the Bloc. The Block proposes that there be investment in growth and employment. Mr. Prime Minister thinks it's not a good idea and he has another idea. Question: What is it? Mr Prime Minister, last week—and it was not until 1 April, one week was missing...— said 'After so long, young people have already found opportunities'. However, young unemployment is 35 %, according to official numbers, i.e., without immigration, internships or any way of drawing numbers to unemployment. The investment, that, fell, and it's in historical minimums. It is, in fact, the smallest investment in the euro area. So I ask you how does the country have a future if it has no investment at a time when oil is low, when the euro is low and at which interest rates are low? That is, how will any young person be able to live in this country with his recipe? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u117	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you say, my proposals are known as the results. And contrary to what the honourable Member is suggesting, the investment is recovering. According to official data, the investment has been recovering. And if the performance we are waiting for this year to come true, that is our premise, according to the data we have, with what the government has in place and what is expected to be private investment, we will in fact have the conditions to materialize the growth of the economy that was designed and to reach the end of the year with a more favourable goal in terms of unemployment and therefore employability, with more effective opportunities for young people, who now have more opportunities than they had one year ago and two years ago. Therefore, Member of Parliament, I cannot, nor do I want to dispute that we have a very high level of unemployment, particularly among young people. But either from the point of view of the basic conditions of technological and curricular preparation they have, or from the point of view of the investment opportunities that have come to materialise themselves and show, quarterly, that the investment is recovering, the young will indeed have a better opportunity for the future. Madam Member, let me conclude — until then I will not have time to respond to any delay — saying that this projection of recovery of the Portuguese economy has been backed up, more projection, less projection, by virtually all the institutions. The problem is this: will the pace of this recovery be enough for us to significantly reduce structural unemployment? We do not have a conclusive answer to that, but we know two things: first, we know that it is worth working to make this possible; second, we know that the proposal that the Left Block has made, that it is to return to the assumptions of indebtedness, that it is to return to the assumptions of the most public deficit, that it is worth more investment that does not have a budgetary balance on the other hand, that is, it becomes unsustainable, and it is not in the long term, Mrs Deputy, it is in the short term. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u118	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u119	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is not embarrassing for the Government to have no solution to the lack of investment and economic growth in the country; it is no embarrassment for the Government to have young unemployment; it is no embarrassment for the Government to emigrate in mass; it is no embarrassment for the Government to have two pesos policy and two measures of those who give the bank the most tax dollars while continuing to cut in wages and pensions for those who work and work for this country; it may not be a burden for the Government, but the current deficit is surely the greatest that Portugal has had — it is the deficit for its future to lose the active population, young unemployment being in stratospheric numbers and Mr. Prime Minister cannot be able to give a conclusive answer to this matter or to any other. Well you can blame the services for reviewing the unemployment rate, as you did with the INE today, as you have done, in fact, in relation to everything. We know that when it goes wrong in schools it is the fault of the services, when it goes wrong in the courts it is the fault of the services, when it goes wrong in the hospitals it is the fault of the services. Well, all that goes wrong in this country is the fault of the services and this government is never guilty of anything! Mr. Prime Minister, you were on the day of resigning at least your Secretary of State Paul Nuncio, because this time it is really very difficult to say that it is the fault of the services, is it not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u120	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u121	We know — and with this I conclude, Madam President — from the report of the National Data Protection Commission that the VIP list has never had anything to do with protecting data, how much to hide. And we found out there's no data being protected. In fact, there are private companies with thousands of employees who have access to tax data. The VIP list does not solve this problem! But we also found out that the VIP list has — see! — four people, we would say the government's hard core : Cavaco Silva, Prime Minister; Pedro Passos Coelho, Prime Minister; Paulo Portas, Deputy Prime Minister; and then Paul Nuncio... Really? Oh, my God! on this list are neither the President of the Assembly of the Republic, nor the Constitutional Court councillors, nor any prominent figure, but is Mr. Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio! This might be a good indicator on who made the VIP list. I would say it is an interesting indicator about the political responsibility of who made this VIP list! Mr. Prime Minister, it is time to assume some political responsibility instead of continuing to blame the services! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u122	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u123	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have noted that today, in the intervention of the PSD and the CDS, a lot of questions have been raised to systematically win the idea that from now on the fight against unemployment is a priority for the Government and for the majority. I mean, I felt that conversation as absolutely false. You know why, Prime Minister? Because this government and this majority have gone through the entire legislature ruining jobs in Portugal. I still remember — take a good look, Prime Minister! — a PSD member said, when we discussed here, the increase in VAT of the restoration to 23 %, on your proposal, that there were most catering companies in Portugal, as if there were, therefore, no harm to the world, not so little unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u124	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u125	You have withdrawn, in an absolutely horrible way, purchasing power to Portuguese populations and families, thus undermining the possibility that many Portuguese companies could become more active in the market. And do you now speak of combating unemployment as a priority? Oh, my God! That is so false, Mr. Prime Minister, as was the false promise made four years ago that they would neither increase taxes nor cut wages. On the question of the VIP list, I want to ask you a question. In view of what the National Data Protection Commission has shown, i.e. that there is a VIP list and that — it is absolutely scandalous — there are private companies that have access to tax data from any citizen, Mr Prime Minister today should be here saying that this cannot happen for another day. So I want to know what the government will do immediately, without waiting for anything else, because this data already has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u127	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that, as far as I am telling you that what is false to this government is the priority of combating unemployment, I cannot but reaffirm, as I have done all the time that I am Prime Minister, which is true, it is not new.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u128	It's new, it's!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u129	I must tell you that, although I am not satisfied with the results, I cannot really hide that the unemployment rate has fallen, which must have gone unnoticed by the honourable Member. Since I am Prime Minister three and a half years ago — it is going to be four years in June — and that the unemployment rate is lower than that recorded at the peak of the crisis in the beginning of 2013, it seems to me, Mrs Deputy, that the government has been achieving some success in this matter. Not the success that I would like, but we have succeeded in this matter. And the employment rate has risen, too, Mrs. It does not insist on this version that, statistically, the unemployment rate has fallen only because there was emigration. There was emigration before the crisis. It was not the crisis that brought emigration, there was already emigration before the crisis. It's true! Imagine Mrs. Deputy! [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u130	Now there's something the opposition doesn't know! The emigrant balances show that Portugal has recorded a positive net emigrant balance every year, which has been reinforced during the years of the crisis. [[PCP protests.]] Imagine, Mrs. Heloísa Apolónia, that despite this, the employment rate has increased! So some success must have happened, mustn't it, Mrs. Member? I therefore have to reaffirm this need for combating unemployment and I do not understand why this causes irritation to the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. It should motivate applause, because there is no political leader who is not interested in combating unemployment. [[PCP and BE protests.]] With regard to the VIP list, I am sorry, but I have already answered that question. In fact, I answered in advance, because no one asked me the question. I said that the government would not wait for the outcome of the IGF report to give effect to what was disclosed by the National Data Protection Commission. So we will now promote the amendments that are necessary to prevent such a firewall from happening. And the honourable Member will have the opportunity, since we have heard of the report today, to know very quickly what the Government will recommend, from the point of view of the political orientation of the Government, of course, to the Tax and Customs Authority in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u131	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u132	Madam President, Prime Minister, today is the day of lies, but it does not abuse. Don't abuse, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u134	With regard to emigration, Mr. Prime Minister is completely disavowing reality, saying that during his term of office there were no peaks of emigration. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you remember counseling young people and Portuguese teachers to emigrate?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u135	No, ma'am!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u136	No, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u137	But the Portuguese remember! And it wasn't just Mr. Prime Minister! However, they created a program, see, so that those who emigrated could return happy and happy to their country. A programme — this is so loaded, Prime Minister! — offering young immigrants who had to leave the country, because the country closed their doors, stages. They want young people to go to Portugal! Or alternatively, the government supports 30 entrepreneurship projects. This is to play with people, Prime Minister! You definitely do not want to face reality, but do not enjoy or lie, even today being the day of lies. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in conclusion, I would like to ask the Government a question on public health and the environment. I see that the Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but I ask him, please, to take note of the matter so that he can act. The question has to do with the fact that a specialized research structure of the World Health Organization has stated that there is evidence that glyphosate, the most sold herbicide in Portugal — attention, is the most sold herbicide in Portugal! — is cancer. It is a herbicide marketed by GMO monsters ( genetically modified organisms), such as Monsanto and Syngenta. Why? Because GMOs are resistant to this herbicide. There is a great deal of business, Prime Minister — you understand! — around this matter. Now, after a WHO structure has stated this evidence, it is now up to national governments to take action against this threat. I would therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to take measures to safeguard environmental and public health matters, which naturally affects many Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-01.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the 15-year debate by congratulating the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: First of all, draft resolutions Nos 1289 / XII ( 4 ) will be examined together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of national agricultural products in advertising campaigns and in proximity markets ( PSD ), 1374 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an integrated and effective strategy for the recovery of local agents and products with a special focus on proximity markets ( CDS-PP ), which have been approved, 1389 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Estimulation to proximity markets, short-marketing circuits and profitability of production activity ( PCP ), 1390 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to dynamize small-scale products and proximity markets ( PS ) and 1391 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ). Secondly, the joint debate will be held, in general, of the projects of lein.o 795 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Integrates road fatality as a new objective of the municipal safety councils - is the first amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July establishing the municipal safety councils ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 838 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July incorporating domestic violence within the objectives and competences of municipal safety councils ( BE ). Thirdly, the projects of lein.o 834 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed together in general. ( a ) — Alter the supported income scheme, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December, establishing the new rental scheme supported for housing and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May, and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November, and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PCP ), 839 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change the income scheme supported for greater social justice ( First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ) ( BE) and 836 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater social justice in the new housing-supported lease regime and giving greater autonomy to autonomous regions and municipalities as part of their application ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014 establishing the new housing-supported lease regime and repealing Law No 21 / 2009 of 20 May and Decrees-Laws No 608/73 of 14 November and 166 / 93 of 7 May ) ( PS ). Fourthly, the joint debate will also be held, in general, of the projects of lein.o 827 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guarantees for credit borrowers to benefit from negative interest rates ( BE ), 833 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ban banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions ( PCP ) and 837 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the interest rates applicable to credit borrowers in a context of a negative reference rate ( PS ). Finally, there will be a regiment vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and Mr. Journalists, I wish you all very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
