ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u1	Mrs. Members, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and Under-Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Today, we don't have a reading file. Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda is the general debate on the proposal for a law No 266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations. The time for debate is 5 minutes for each parliamentary group and the government. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u2	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Assumption Esteves, Mrs. Leaders of the benches, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: As is known by this House, the Government has been promoting the major legislative reform carried out in the services sectors in Portugal, driven by the need to implement the Services Directive sector, which has resulted in the change of more than 100 diplomas. This Directive aims to facilitate the exercise of fundamental economic freedoms of establishment and freedom to provide services in the European Union and in itself is a fundamental challenge for the success of the single market, with obvious benefits for Portugal and for the internationalisation of our services sector. And, by continuing this work, this Executive is presenting today another legislative proposal to simplify the exercise of economic activity in our country: the new regime for the establishment and operation of professional societies that are subject to professional public associations. This diploma is based on three very clear objectives. First, ensure the elimination of unjustified or disproportionate requirements that condition the access and exercise of professional activities such as requirements in terms of reserves of activity, in a legal manner, of shareholder participation, in accordance with the Services Directive. Secondly, improving the conditions for the mobility of professionals, within and outside the country, obviously in accordance with the European Directives on the free movement of professionals, including the Qualifications Directive. And thirdly, to implement a commitment in the Memorandum of Understanding on the conditionalities of economic policy which gave rise to the approval by this Assembly of the so-called 'Framework of Professional Orders'. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to reinforce some important points of this diploma. This diploma ensures the establishment of commonly referred to as « joint ventures », i.e. with activities and professionals organised in more than one order, without the decharacterization of professional companies, since their main object must refer to a profession organised in the sole form of «professional association» and the system of incompatibilities and impediments applicable should be observed. It ensures that the form of professional companies formed in Portugal is that of civil society, in any legal form admissible for the pursuit of commercial activities. It also ensures that any persons may be members, managers or administrators of the companies concerned, even if they do not have the professional qualifications required for the performance of the professions organised in the professional order concerned. The possibility of the statutes of the respective professional orders to introduce derogations to this scheme is safeguarded, but only on the basis of the exercise of the powers of public authority which the profession consists of or on imperative grounds of public interest, linked to the mission of public interest which the profession, in its entirety, continues. Reference shall be made under the right to establish and provide services by professional companies from other Member States of the European Union, reference shall be made to the applicability of the Qualifications and Services Directive and, finally, new provisions shall be introduced concerning the application of the single electronic service counter, the obligation to provide information on the Internet and administrative cooperation with the authorities of other Member States of the European Union, with the European Commission and, in particular, within the framework of the Internal Market Information System. My ladies and gentlemen, this diploma thus enshrines the strengthening of subjects that constitute a priority for this Government: one, the simplification of the exercise of economic activities; two, the elimination of unjustified barriers; three, the guarantee of control and technical independence of professional societies; four, the observance of the system of incompatibilities and impediments; and five, an efficient sharing of resources. We therefore hope that the proposed law now under discussion will deserve the reception of this Assembly of the Republic and we consider it important to adopt a more certified legislative framework, more friendly to economic agents, more potential, generating efficiency and benefits for the user, for the user, for the client, for the citizen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u3	The next intervention is the PS. Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In January 2013, a new legal regime was established for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations through Law No 2 / 2013 which, in paragraph 5 of Article 53. the, defined a 90-day deadline for the Government to submit amendments to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only two years ago that the 'emergency' arrives and, eight days after admission to the committee, the promised proposals are discussed in this House, which immediately leads us to ask what this long delay and this strange urgency is due to. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Bill No 266 / XII ( 4. ( a ), establishing the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations, shall apply to companies of professionals and equivalent entities established on national territory, which shall have as their object the joint exercise of professional activities organised in a single professional public association. It also applies to companies of official auditors and other professional companies governed by European Union law insofar as it does not contravene the legislation which is particularly applicable to them. We are in the presence of a legislative proposal where it is essential not only to adapt the statutes of professional public associations already established to the legal regime in it, but also to approve other legislation applicable to the exercise of those professions which is necessary to comply with that same scheme, laying down the principles and rules necessary to simplify the free access and exercise of services activities and transposes Directive 2006/ 123 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Law No 9 / 2009, as amended by Laws Nos. 41 / 2012 and 25 / 2014 of 2 May, which transposed into the domestic legal order to Directive 2005 / 36 / EC, of Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications, and Council Directive 2006 / 100 / EC, which adapts certain directives in the field of free movement of persons. in this proposal for a law, the following legislative provisions are highlighted, among other things: the inclusion of associations of other Member States; the judgement of equal treatment for nationals of the Member State of the European Union or of the European Economic Area, as well as for nationals of third countries whose qualifications have been obtained outside Portugal by the international reciprocity regime in force. The second relevant aspect of this initiative is administrative cooperation. The professional public associations competent under this Law shall provide and request the administrative authorities of the other Member States of the European Union and the European Commission mutual assistance and shall take the measures necessary to cooperate effectively, in particular through the Internal Market Information System, within the framework of procedures relating to service providers already established in another State. In short, the reasons they chaired this legislative initiative are generally worthy of the Socialist Party's agreement, with emphasis on the above-mentioned legislative provisions, such as administrative cooperation with other Member States of the European Union. Despite the legislative initiative having force of transposition into the internal legal order of Directive 2005/36 / EC, the Socialist Party places many reservations on the effectiveness of administrative cooperation between the respective authorities of the Member States, with the application of the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional public associations. Aware of its responsibilities, the Socialist Party will monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of this legislative initiative, bearing in mind that it is up to the professional associations themselves to minimize bureaucratic effects on their own statutes. If the reservations now raised are confirmed, the PS will immediately come to this Chamber to propose the necessary corrections to this diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u5	The next intervention is the CDS-PP. Mr Artur Rego has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2013, this Assembly of the Republic approved Law No 2 / 2013, commonly referred to as the Framework Law of Professional Orders. In accordance with Article 53. that of the Act, it is necessary not only to adapt the statutes of the public professional associations already established under the legal regime established there, but also to approve the other legislation applicable to the exercise of those professions, which must be adapted to that same regime. by this proposal for a law, the Government shall, therefore, establish the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations in order to ensure that the provisions of Article 27 are complied with in this respect. that of the Framework Law on Professional Orders, Decree-Law No 92 / 2010 of 26 July, which transposed into the domestic legal order Directive 2006 / 123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December on services in the internal market ( Services Directive ) and Law No 9 / 2009 of 4 March, which transposed into the domestic legal order Directive 2005 / 36 / EC of Parliament and of the Council on recognition of professional qualifications ( Qualifications Directive ). in this bill, it should be noted that the same: Implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding on economic policy conditionalities; It shall implement Article 53. that of the framework law on professional orders in compliance with the guidelines laid down in Article 27. the same diploma; In order to ensure the elimination of unjustified or disproportionate requirements that still affect access to and the pursuit of professional activities, such as requirements in terms of reserve of activity, legal form and shareholder participation, in accordance with the Services Directive; In order to improve the conditions for the mobility of professionals (in and out of the country), in accordance with European directives in the field of freedom of movement for professionals; In order to ensure the establishment of commonly referred to as « joint ventures », i.e. with activities and professionals organised in more than one order, provided that their main object refers to a profession organised under a single professional association (which is the other exercised as accessory) and that the system of incompatibilities and impediments applicable is observed. The justification for this solution is that there must be a professional order to which each society will continue to be restricted, in particular for the purposes of registration and disciplinary responsibility of the members of that society and of society itself. in this bill, it is ensured that the form of professional societies formed in Portugal is that of civil societies or any legal form admissible by law for the pursuit of commercial activities. In addition, the rules for the organisation and operation of these societies are those laid down in their respective legal regime ( Civil Code or Code of Commercial Societies ). It is ensured that they may be partners, managers or administrators of the companies referred to in the previous number of persons — rather than what is currently happening in some cases of professional associations — even if they do not have the professional requirements for the exercise of the same profession. However, it should be ensured that the majority of voting rights and social capital belong to the professionals concerned and that one of the managers or administrators is a member of the respective professional order. The possibility of the statutes of the respective professional orders to introduce derogations to this scheme is safeguarded, but only on the basis of the exercise of powers of public authority, or on imperative grounds of public interest linked to the public interest mission which this profession, as a whole, continues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u7	And so far? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u8	Reference is made to the terms of the right to establish and provide services by companies of professionals from other Member States of the European Union. Reference is also made to the applicability of the Qualifications Directive and the Services Directive. New provisions on the application of the single electronic desk of services are introduced, as the Secretary of State mentioned in his speech. Currently, there are only specific schemes with some density for lawyers' companies and for official auditors' companies. The revocation of these schemes should therefore be ensured in the statutes of those two professional orders. The professional companies formed before the entry into force of this Act shall have to adopt the rules laid down herein within 180 days after the statutes of their professional associations have been amended, on the ground that they are considered to be general-law companies, with the automatic cancellation of their registration into the professional public association of which they were members. In conclusion, I would say that this is a good initiative, it is the continuity of what is being done. We are only voting here that the professional orders in question, which have already been mentioned here, are more rapid in the application of this bill when it takes the form of law than they have so far been in the application of the framework law. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u9	The next intervention is the CFP. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The main problem of this bill is not essentially about its content, which is corporate law, so it provides for the creation in the Portuguese legal order of a type of civil society that can adopt the form of a commercial society, composed of professionals whose activity is regulated under a professional association of a public nature, i.e. professional orders. It's just that this bill that the government here is part of a wrong budget. It was supposed to have already been approved by this House by the statutes of professional public associations which would be in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u12	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u13	It is that Law No 2 / 2013 has been in force for two years and Article 53. Mr Artur Rêgo has more than what he has mentioned recently. It is that the Government had a 90-day deadline to present to the Assembly of the Republic the proposed laws of adaptation of each of the statutes of the respective professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u15	So the government has already allowed for almost two years to pass the deadline which was imperatively established in Law No. 2 / 2013, which was proposed by this Government and approved by this majority. Therefore, the Government has repeatedly allowed the 90 days to which it was obliged and then, as if nothing, comes to the Assembly of the Republic to present a bill to pass a law that would only make sense if the statutes of professional public associations were already approved and in accordance with Law No. 2 / 2013. In other words, the Government has failed to comply with what was required by a law which the Government itself proposed and which the parliamentary majority that supported it has approved and now realizes that nothing has happened, it realizes that everything has been approved and that the orders have the statutes perfectly adapted to Law No 2 / 2013. Well, it's not like that. But the shit doesn't stick around. It is only in the transitional provisions of this bill that the companies of professionals that already exist, in order to adapt to this law that is to be approved, have a period of six months after the adoption of the new statutes of their respective public associations. So let us ask ourselves: what about those who come to constitute themselves in the future? Do they no longer have to respect the statutes of their public associations? Are they constituted as professional companies or regardless of the status of their public association? That is to say, we have already established professional societies which, if this law is passed as it is here, are relegated, cannot adopt this corporate model here provided for, because the statutes of the orders in which the respective professionals are registered have not been adapted. But those which are subsequently formed have nothing to do with this and everything happens as if this status did not exist, applying to them the new system of professional societies. As the old popular saying said, «there are partners who are partners and are seated and there are partners who are partners and are standing», i.e., there are different regimes for societies that should obviously have the same legal nature. And why all this? Because the government got into a tack, that is to say, it passed a regime of professional public associations, then showed a total inability to comply with what it approved, it did not change the statutes of professional associations and now comes here to present a bill as if it were nothing and that, if it is approved as it is, it adds up to the existing tackling. Therefore, it was good for you to understand yourself, that the Ministry of Economics should understand the Ministry of Justice and coordinate something not to do, before the Assembly of the Republic and before the country, a figure like this that you are doing here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u16	Mr Artur Rêgo has acknowledged that we were right! Remember the discussion in 2013?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u17	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u18	The next intervention is the PSD. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u19	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government has presented to this Assembly of the Republic the proposed law here under discussion and which aims to establish the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations. In this regard, I would like to leave here three notes that seem relevant to us, focusing on what is in fact being discussed here. First, this proposal follows the legal regime of the creation, organization and operation of professional legal orders. It is therefore to follow up, as has already been mentioned here, Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, also known as the « framework law of professional public associations », a Law which deserved broad consensus in this House and also in social terms. A law that has come to establish clearer, more uniform and more articulated rules, of course, on two aspects: the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; and the access and exercise of professions regulated by professional public associations. A second note that I want to leave here is that this bill, in addition to fulfilling what has just been referred to in the framework law of professional public associations, also complies with two very relevant groups of directives of the European Union. From then on, the Services Directive, which aims to eliminate unjustified and disproportionate requirements that condition access to professional activities and also the Qualifications Directive, which aims to improve the mobility conditions of professionals. It is also important, and as a last note, to remember what is mentioned in the explanatory statement and that it is very relevant to us. It is that this diploma deserved the follow-up of the inter-ministerial working group set up by this government. And this is, for us, an aspect of extreme relevance. And it's of extreme relevance, why? Because, in addition to many other aspects, it results in a greater reflection—and we know that this is a matter of technical complexity and also of great transversality. It is therefore essential that a number of institutions make their contribution and experience. thus, a good application of the law is ensured. As the Secretary of State mentioned here, it is about creating simpler and more effective rules. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the subject here today — this proposal for a law tabled by the Government — is a matter of great economic importance. Of enormous economic relevance to the country, to have a more competitive, more modern and more prepared country to meet the challenges of globalisation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u20	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, and I therefore conclude the general discussion of the proposal for law No 266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and I thank the presence of Mr. State Secretaries. We will move on to point 2 of the agenda which, as everyone knows, consists in the joint debate, in general, of several bills that I will begin to identify: paragraphs 699 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Returns paid holidays ( BE), 695 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 697 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Restores holidays of 1. December and 5 October ( PS ), 749 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), 750 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), and 751 / XII of 4. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, providing for specific arrangements for the enjoyment and celebration of certain holidays, including their possible provisional suspension and lifting of the suspension ( CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When in March 2012 the court of four holidays was approved in this House, the government said that the measure was transitional. It also supported this measure because of the need for greater competitiveness of companies and because of the country being under the troika directory. Two years have passed, the troika was gone and what we managed to find is that the government once again lied, because the measure was not transient,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u22	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u23	... the courting of holidays is not transitional, since the government, having passed the arguments that gave rise to this court, this withdrawal, this theft of rest for workers and workers, is not at the disposal of the restoratives. However, the left-wing bloc considers that, not having proved by the Government, nor by a majority, unless it does so today, that this withdrawal has had a positive effect on the competitiveness of companies and the Portuguese economy, since this is not being proved — in fact, the employers themselves claim that it has had no positive effect on their companies — then it is not understood why the stolen holidays are not restored. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u24	Therefore, the Left Block brings to this House what is of the most fundamental justice, in addition to being a very clear commitment of the Government: that of putting back holidays that it stole and that were not even contemplated, as is said in the draft of the authorship of Mr Ribeiro and Castro, in the electoral programme of the Government. The time has come to restore what has been taken back to the Portuguese, to the workers, because, in fact, what was in perspective, what is always in perspective is to embarrass the value of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u25	To present the PCP bill, Mr. David Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese people, in generation, and the workers, in particular, face a daily reality of worsening living and working conditions. After eight national holidays abolished in two years in the Portuguese calendar and life, the PSD/CDS Government insists on safeguarding the right to access these holidays until 2017. The agreement signed by the current government with UGT and employers only confirmed the nature and consequences of right-wing policy. The employer thus benefits from four working days more per year, which means more exploitation for those who work and do not contribute to solve any problem in the country. Public debt increases, unemployment and emigration rates continue to be very high, the impoverishment, even of those who work, is evidence, but on the other hand, we witness the increase in the concentration of wealth in large economic groups with the expansion of their fortunes. Mrs. Members, in the face of all this, the PS presents an insufficient proposal for the replacement of half of the holidays and the CDS cries for 1. December as if he had no responsibilities in this area. Despite the fantastic speech of positive signs or economic recovery by the PSD and the CDS, the reality is that they take at least three more years with the four national holidays withdrawn and with the aggravating of the so-called ‘revaluation’ assumed for 2017 does not mean replacement. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who can understand, with the existing scientific and technological advance, this option of increasing working time, what means more unemployment? The four national holidays withdrawn, four days of free work, unpaid work, hand-delivered hand to the patronate show well their class options against the workers and against the values of 25 April. The position of the CFP for the replacement of holidays does not arise due to electoral tactics. The CFP has always fought, without mistake, for the return of the retired holidays, in general, and for the abolished holidays, in particular, corresponding to the demands of the workers and of the Portuguese society. The bill presented by the PCP aims to restore the four retired national holidays, recognizing its historical and cultural importance, with particular emphasis on the days of the implementation of the Republic and the Restoration of Independence, whose elimination collides with the culture and history of the Portuguese people. The CFP also proposes the consecration of Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory holiday, supported by a secular practice of its commemoration throughout the national territory, ensuring that its commemoration is not dependent on government decision. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u27	To present the PS bill, Mr Alberto Costa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u28	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members : Portugal cannot continue to be the only Member State of the European Union which, having pointed out its independence, or the recovery of it, with a holiday, abolished it. We do not want to be for any longer a Republic which eliminates in its laws — as the dictatorship has never done — the compulsory holiday devoted to its own establishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u30	This was a bad moment, to which we were not bound by the 2011 Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u31	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u32	The option to delete compulsory holidays from 1. the December and October 5 will be remembered, not by the effects invoked by its authors, but as one of these unusual moments in which dignity, identity, memory and self-esteem are held by the hands of ideological arguments and pseudo-factual claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u34	After all, Portugal was not the country of the European Union with the highest number of holidays, as the Government said, and very competitive countries had so many or more holidays than Portugal. The 1st. December and October 5 have always been respected as holidays since 1910, regardless of the political regimes and all the conditions passed. We cannot imagine the countries that we admire disrespecting and suppressing compulsory holidays dedicated to their independent existence, their Republic or their democracy. How can this make sense to us in a country whose constitution enshrines the republican form of government as a material limit of the constitutional review? A few days after the 1910 Revolution, the Republic created the 1st holiday. December as a 'day devoted to the autonomy of the country' — a consecration which has not lost value, on the contrary. We are today a Member State of a Union, if we do not cultivate and preserve that value, we will be more fragile in the face of the risk of evolution towards a particular administrative region, with the number of periodically reduced and normalised holidays, in obedience to a central power. A nation that favors the forgetfulness and indifference around its origin and the great achievements of its past makes it difficult, in time, its autonomy and its future. You can win the battle of having as many holidays as the average, or even below the average, of organizations from which you are a member or even win the trophy for "the nations with less holidays" that some ideology may sponsor, but then you would have begun to lose the battle for your future. That direction should be changed and now. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: In addition to civil holidays, there are also two Catholic holidays, which have also been eliminated, under the laws of 2012 and 2013, although, in relation to them, in relations with the Holy See, there has always been reference to an understanding aimed at a "suspension" for five years. As in 2013, the Socialist Party defends the maintenance of the whole of the excluded holidays. Given the terms of the current Concordata, the change in the field of Catholic holidays implies that the mechanisms envisaged there are put in place and the procedural errors that occurred in a recent past are not repeated. Therefore, the Socialist Party's initiative concentrates on civic holidays, following a clear demonstration, and also a commitment, in order to ensure that the agreed mechanisms relating to Catholic holidays are soon to be recovered. It cannot be omitted that the excluded holidays represented not only a reduction in the right to rest, but also an increase in working time, without an increase in the remuneration of employers benefiting from this increase. This represents an autonomous and powerful reason for the situation to be reviewed. Each year that passes with the eliminated holidays prolongs an injustice and an error. An error in which one cannot persevere and a continuous and dangerous destruction of value, destruction of identity, destruction of memory, destruction of self-esteem and respect for history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, with respect to the concordatory precepts, we propose the replacement of the deleted holidays, with 1. December and 5 October which have already been returned to the place we owe them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u35	To present the two Green Bills, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not think it takes much effort to realize that the people who work have come to be subjected to a real martyrdom. The reasons, the causes of this martyrdom are the policies and options of the current PSD/CDS government. In fact, with this government people began to pay more taxes, received less by the end of the month, worked more hours per week, had less holidays and generally had less public rights and less public services. As if this offensive against whom it works was not enough, the Government decided to eliminate four mandatory national holidays. With the elimination of these holidays, the Government has put the Portuguese workers to work more than four days a year without any additional remuneration, thus favouring only, and so on, employers, despite the negative consequences for those who work, not only at wage level but also at the level of the right to rest and leisure, and further grappling with the reconciliation of the professional exercise with the family life of people. Moreover, the economic reasons that the Government has mentioned have no credible basis. From then on, because all studies point out and show very clearly that working more for the same wage adds nothing in terms of productivity, being practically neutral the effect on the country's economy. Finally, the Government's decision to eliminate holidays is still a clear symptom of the contempt with which the Government looks at our culture and our history. The Greens therefore consider it to be of all opportunity and justice for those who work, but also for our history and our culture, to return the four compulsory holidays that the current government has decided to eliminate. As for Carnival, I will say that it is one of the most important annual festivals, it is one of the most important holiday cycles in our country. On the other hand, Carnival lives as an annual party and in many localities takes even great importance from the economic point of view. Until the school calendar is organized on the assumption of the holiday of Tuesday of Carnival and from there the interruption of the school year in this period, the school holidays of Carnival. In recent years, however, the government has decided to counter the social, economic and cultural dynamics of various communities and localities. After all, what did the government do? The government made a real carnival. We stayed with a Carnival Tuesday in which half Country is standing and half Country is working, as, moreover, shows the fact that the vast majority of municipalities have given point tolerance on that day, completely ignoring the guidelines of the government and leaving him to speak alone. But the carnival was even bigger when we realized that the part of the country that works on that day only does it in half gas, because there are no mails, since the CTTs are closed, the banks do not get to open and the offer of public transport is exactly the same as it was on weekends. Finally, I wanted to say that it does not seem reasonable for us to leave the faculty of a week or two before Carnival decide not to consider Carnival Tuesday as a holiday. With this attitude, the Government is undermining the expectations of Portuguese, local authorities and tourism and restoration operators. The Greens therefore consider that the Third Carnival Fair should be compulsory and that is why it points to another bill that the Greens are bringing about today's discussion. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u37	To present Bill No. 751 / XII ( 4. ( a) Mr José Ribeiro and Castro have the floor of their authorship.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three very fast messages that I address, above all, to my colleagues in the majority, to whom I call on them to enable the adoption, in general, of this bill. « Up to washing baskets is harvest». First message: there are those who say that «the word is a creation of the devil for man to hide what he thinks». I don't believe that. And in the law the word is good; what is good is the word. If I want to suspend, I write'suspension' ; if I write'suspension', I have eliminated it. That's what I want and what I do. The approved bill is the guarantee that this confusion ends and mistrust ends at once; if rejected, it is the guarantee that confusion continues and deepens. Second message: « do not leave for tomorrow what you can do today». We all realize that at least some holidays will be restored. Why not today? We return to the Portuguese the party of independence and national freedom already: 1. December! We give back to Catholics the feast of their saints and to all Portuguese, with or without faith, the day they use to remember and honor their dead! Well, I know I don't own the ball, so they ask, "But who's this to come here to say if it's yesterday, today or tomorrow? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's right! That's fair enough! But there comes into the field the "Cozinheiro e Castro" to inform that the project is properly seasoned to be satisfied with the convenience and taste of any food. It can be approved in general and may withdraw my most immediate darings for the decision of those who have « the knife and cheese in their hand», because as far as this is concerned, I confess, I only have a piece of broom with myself! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u39	This is a coordination intervention for the coalition! It's seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u40	Third message: Structured things are not built in trenches. There is a time of trenches to point out and launch reforms; and there is a time of armistice to establish and consolidate reforms. We can't walk to cycle balloons: now set a holiday, or take a holiday, or take this one, or give that one here! It is important to open up an area of decompression that will allow us, still in this political cycle in which we rule, to leave this problem of bridges and holidays permanently resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u41	Since they did not beat palms, it means that no one has appreciated their proposal for coordination for the coalition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u42	by the PSD, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u43	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2012 the Government and the social partners concluded, in a tripartite way, the Commitment for Growth, Competitiveness and Employment, which, among other matters, says, and I quote: 'Having regard to the commitments made (...)' — read the Memorandum of Understanding — '(...) and in order to contribute to the strengthening of the competitiveness of enterprises, the Government and the Social Partners intend to reduce by three to four the number of compulsory holidays. Do not keep on seeking. ” Similarly, the Government bilaterally agreed with the Holy See an exceptional understanding of one of the articles of Concordata related to the suspension of two religious holidays and which would be in force for five years. in one and another moments it was explicitly and implicitly understood a principle of symmetry between civil and religious holidays. Thus it follows, as is logical, that the revocation of the suspension will have to take place simultaneously and over five years, which will happen not in 2015, but before 2017. For this reason, the bills currently under discussion and which imply the immediate repeal of the suspension of holidays, in addition to the easy populism, are, above all, extemporaneous, not respecting the agreements signed in social dialogue and with the Holy See and, including in the case of the Socialist Party bill, also affects the principle of symmetry between civil and religious holidays.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u45	So you ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members: Why only civilians? Is it your return to the good tradition of the French Mata Frades of the 30th century or to a luxury-jacobinism that we thought had been forgotten in the first decades of the 20th century? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u47	You heard VV. Ex. that Portugal, despite being a secular state, has in its people a very strong affective identification with certain Catholic traditions. In 2017, at the end of the five-year period, it will be the Government's mission to address this matter in social dialogue and with the Holy See and to present the proposals for legislation consistent with this Parliament. However, this should also be the right time for all political, economic and social actors to take into account that what was present in the suspension of holidays, as mentioned above, had to do with the strengthening of the competitiveness of companies and the subsequent issues of direct productivity breaks, interruptions and, above all, indirect ones, with the issue of so-called bridges, when holidays dates coincide with Tuesdays or Thursdays and even Wednesdays. It should also be taken into account that Article 234 ( 3 ). that of the Labour Code already provides that, and I quote, « by specific legislation, certain compulsory holidays may be observed on Monday of the following week ». This is, moreover, a practice in other countries which guarantees a virtuous predictability of interruptions for workers and their families, for employers and for economic activity in general in terms of their annual planning. However, in the best opinion, this principle is perfectly applicable to most compulsory holidays, including those currently suspended, and also benefiting from the desirable commemoration of events of a historical, cultural or religious nature that justify that these dates are legally designated as compulsory holidays. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u48	by the CDS-PP, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the question of holidays, the CDS has an autonomous position and an own agenda. We defend the recovery of 1. the December Day of the Restoration of National Independence, in 2016. None of the bills under discussion today go that way. We defend that the mandatory reassessment of the suspension of holidays, to take place by law until 2017, will take place in 2016. I mean, we'll be in advance for a year. What the CDS does not and others do is violate international agreements with friendly States, particularly with the Holy See. We want a simultaneous reassessment of both civil holidays and religious holidays. That is what is in the law and that is what Portugal has negotiated with the Holy See. Irresponsibly, the bills that are being debated today violate the Concordata and violate the agreement with the Holy See. We defend that, firstly, it negotiates and then legislates, for the simple reason that a concordary State cannot have unilateral religious holidays. Now, the various bills, certainly overdue, but an unacceptable lapse, treat religious holidays without even predicting the hearing of the Holy See. If the size of the legislative error was ahead, Parliament, in a penitentiary, would lie outside the Concordata, violate the Law and ignore the old rule that says: « Caesar what is Caesar's, to God what is God's». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u50	We're not going after this demagogy to restore the four holidays. We want the 1st. the December one back and will certainly come back. We know that, by the rule of parity, the recovery of a civil holiday means the same on the religious side. [[PCP protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, "1 + 1" are two, there are not four, and even fewer are five, as some, by electoralism, propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u51	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u52	This is our position. The 1st. December returns in 2016 in respect of the negotiation with the Holy See and Concordata and in symmetry with the recovery of a religious holiday. [[PCP protests.]] VV. They don't agree, so they're screaming. We are sorry, but it is legitimate, and this is our way. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u53	For a second intervention, Mr David Costa of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We attended the speeches of the parties of the majority and we found that they are nothing more than a mask and an ambush to throw a curtain of smoke to the eyes of the Portuguese. If, in fact, they were concerned about these issues of competitiveness and productivity, they would stop firing people, create conditions for production and no longer throw up the Portuguese. We are watching, on the part of the majority, an apology, because if they were interested in improving the conditions of the Portuguese, they would no longer postpone this situation and the holidays would be restored. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u55	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I, who am even Alentejana, would like to say a popular saying very widely used on my land. In front of an assembly of gentlemen who speak very well and adjective much, asks the Alentejan: "But what did the young man say? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[BE's laughs.]] I just think that's what happened. Mr Pedro Roque spoke of everything — easy populism, jacobinism, and out there. And I ask, what do you mean? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u57	Mr Nuno Magalhães, now, even denied the intervention of his bench, when Mr Ribeiro and Castro said: « now pull this there, now give that there...». That's exactly what we're discussing here! What we are discussing here is the Government's word, which said that the withdrawal of holidays was transient and circumscribed to the plan of the troika. As the troika has already gone, they fulfill your electoral programme, which had not registered any withdrawals from holidays, respect the history and memory of the Portuguese people, respect the workers, respect the country, give people the opportunity to have time for leisure, rest time and, by the way, have time for family and time for fun. That is exactly why we also sign up for Carnival Tuesday, knowing that in many of the municipalities of this country is a dynamizing factor of the local economy, and you well know that. Mr Nuno Magalhães said that agreements cannot be violated, with reference to the Holy See, the Concordata... What did you do in 2012? They violated, exactly, those agreements! So now they have the decency to rest the days they considered to be suspended—and only suspended. That is, they said they were transitional measures. Liar—I'll tell you right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u58	Before I give the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I can't help but ask Mr. Members who did not subject the qualifications. It is a favor I ask, for freedom to flow into the Chamber without the Bureau having to intervene. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to say that the Greens presented two distinct legislative initiatives, just so that the parties of the majority could not come up with the conversation they are now coming with. Mr Nuno Magalhães, with regard to the international agreement with the Holy See, I would like to say to you that the proposed bills do not intend to withdraw any more religious holidays, they aim to reposition them! We pretend to put them back! So if Mr Nuno Magalhães even said that negotiations with the Holy See were very difficult, it would of course be because he intended to withdraw. Not with this legislative initiative, because it aims to restore. By the way, Mr Nuno Magalhães, the second bill that The Greens present, with a view to making Carnival holiday compulsory, has nothing to do with the Holy See. The PSD refers to « easy populism », « strengthening competitiveness ». These are basically the bricks to keep the Portuguese working for the employer for another four days, because this is what this is about. There is no study that indicates that working more with the same salary can bring more competitiveness. Don't bring it! It's neutral for the economy! So what the parties of the majority, especially the PSD, say here is that the Portuguese will continue to work more four days a year without any increase in remuneration terms, i.e., they will work more four days a year for the bosses. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u60	The Bureau does not record any more entries, and I therefore conclude this debate. We move on to the third item on the agenda, which will be filled with the general discussion of Bill No 164 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Seventh amendment to the Election Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and by Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, and 2 / 2012 of 14 June ( ALRAA ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's some noise in the room. I ask you to try to maintain the serenity necessary in terms of noise so that we can start the debate. For an intervention, Mr Carlos Enes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When in 2006 the Socialist Party presented in this Parliament a bill for a path leading to a parity law, a significant leap has been made in Portuguese political life which must continue to be improved. The law then approved originated in the recognition of the existence of gender inequality in Portuguese politics. It is sufficient to use some statistical data from the period of democracy to see the slow but gradual change that has been taking place. In 1976, in the Assembly of the Republic, women accounted for only 5 % of the total number of Members ; in 1995, 12, 2 % ; in 2006, they reached 19, 6 % to be around 27 % in 2011. If we are currently above the European average in terms of women's representation in the European Parliament, which stands at 20 %, we are fully aware that the Parity Act needs a new assessment in order to comply with Article 8. the, which provides that, over five years, the Assembly of the Republic should evaluate its impact and carry out its review, which has not yet happened. It is necessary to continue to pursue the path towards true parity, promoting policies that drive access that has been difficult for Portuguese women. This fight for equality has international historical contours dating back to the early twentieth century and has also had repercussions in our country. Despite the still legitimate controversy of advances and setbacks, the fact is that this legislation has changed the political life of all parties. We know perfectly well that the Act of Parity does not solve the problems of women, which are many, and they go beyond this particular issue, but the fact that these problems are not solved cannot be invoked as a pretext for an unfavourable vote. The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, with this initiative, intends that the legislation adopted in 2006 also apply to the elections for the Regional Assembly, having obtained in that body a widely majority vote with the abstention only from the Communist Party of Portugal. The Socialist Party welcomes this initiative and will vote in favour of this proposal. However, it is noted that the Autonomous Region of Madeira is still outside this whole process, which we hope will be resolved shortly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u62	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing Bill No 164 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Seventh amendment to the Elections Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This debate is for all of us and for all of us of the greatest importance. It is about incorporating the Organic Law No. 3 / 2006, i.e. the Law of Parity, into the Electoral Law of the Autonomous Region. I would also like to recall that this initiative took place on a proposal from the Left Block, in accordance with the one that has always been our programmatic and practical commitment, since we have always fought for full parity and we have practiced it before being enshrined in the law, in relation to our lists.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u65	What the bill does is recognise parity of 33, 3 % on the application lists and, at the same time, on its failure to comply, reduce public subsidy from 50 % to 25 %, as provided for in the law and the infringement framework also enshrined therein. We recognize that this is a fundamental step forward for democracy. The proposal of the Left Block was submitted in February 2013. And I would like to quote our coordinator and representative in the region, Zoraida Soares, who then said: "Only then can we say that democracy is complete and that sex is no longer a reason for exclusion. Do not keep on seeking. ” The bill we are discussing today for the consecration of parity in the electoral law of the Autonomous Region is a step forward in democracy, it is essential that it be recognized by this House and, of course, is an initiative of the greatest seriousness, of which we are proud and that we have always practiced. Internally, we have practiced parity and fought for it in all legislative initiatives. It is with great pride, therefore, that we are having this debate today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u66	For an intervention, Mrs. Lidia Bulcão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the seventh amendment to the Elections Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which aims to incorporate the text of the Organic Law No 3 / 2006, which approved the Act of Parity. This proposal aims to harmonize the regional electoral law with the regime in force for other national, local and even referendums, even in the region, but which had left out the elections for the legislative assemblies of the autonomous regions. However, the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women in access to and participation in political life cannot be done in part, discriminating representation and political decision-making bodies in favour of others. We therefore welcome the initiative brought to this House by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Achors and whose discussion is only a matter of late, since the proposal here under discussion dates back to 2013 and which has also been discussed in this House the eighth amendment to the same law, although the result of a legislative agenda, requested by the Autonomous Region. We therefore stress, and above all, the need to give greater speed to proposals from the regional assemblies, under the penalty of these late schedules, to be viewed with contempt, or worse, as a way to minimize the role of regional bodies in defining their own future. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the improvement of electoral law is a plan that we must all move, even though in the case of regional electoral law the initiative must be based on the regional sovereignty bodies, as established by the constitutional review of 2004, which included within the framework of regional autonomy the organization of regional electoral acts, without that calling into question the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic in this matter. However, I also think it should be stressed here that over six years on the entry into force of parity in the lists for the Republic's Assembly, for the European Parliament and for local authorities, the impact of this change on the promotion of gender equality has not yet been duly assessed as provided for in Article 8 thereof. this assessment would be particularly useful in the analysis of this proposal. Having said that, the PSD bench underlines the importance of this proposal, being already available to promote its early approval, so that the Azores can in fact enter into the autonomy of the 21st century. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The content of the legislative amendment which the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores brings to our consideration today, in fact, as has already been said, is intended to incorporate into the text of the Legislative Assembly of the Azores the rules aimed at promoting equality between men and women in the lists for the election of that own governing body of the Autonomous Region. In other words, this law aims, in essence, to extend to elections to the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, in strict compliance with a legal-constitutional imposition, the regime of the well-known Law of Parity, which, as you know, and as has already been mentioned above, imposes the minimum representation of 33, 3 % of each of the sexes on the electoral lists. The discussion could begin from now on by discussing whether, by chance, 33, 3 % actually constitutes, under all circumstances, parity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u71	... obliging therefore that they cannot contain more than two candidates of the same sex consecutively placed in the order of the list, except for this rule only lists for electoral circles with less than 750 voters. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that in this Chamber, there are few doubts as to how politics is a deeply marked construction by gender lines, just as I also believe that in this Chamber, there are few doubts as to how politics has an important role to play in the construction of gender, and a political change can make possible, or limit, different social constructions of a woman or a man in a changing society, with all the consequences that are inherent to it. There are few political phenomena as universal as the underrepresentation of women. In Portugal, in this House, the evolution, despite the lack of my expectations, has been made. In 1998 we had only 13% of women, but today we reached 31%. The Act of Parity was implemented — and this is an example of this, in particular the effect of parity — for the first time in the elections to the European Parliament in June 2009, with some controversy, and has witnessed clear developments : the percentage of women elected rose from 25% to 36% in the elections in 2009 and from 36% in the elections in 2014. in fact, we can say that in Portugal, both legally and constitutionally, Portuguese women enjoy a favorable situation. More sociological data go exactly that way, but it happens that other sociological data portray a totally different country: problems of wage differentiation, partially shared domestic tasks or — emphasis — the excessively low percentage of women in decision-making places, particularly in the political framework. In fact, if we see an increase in the number of women in politics, on the one hand, there is a pattern that remains, i.e., these women are mostly still in the lowest places in a certain political hierarchy, maintaining a curious standard: the higher the power associated with the given political position, the less the probability that this place is occupied by a woman. In short, the contradiction between theory and practice continues. The constitutional and legal system, in fact, aims at a certain normativeity, which is not then accompanied by the so-called social normativeity. The generalization and persistence of certain social practices in the public, labor and domestic sphere hinder and contrast with ideals of emancipation. We need to be careful and not be indifferent. The encouragement of women's participation in politics is an important part of the promotion of women's status, as well as being a strategic vector for their full integration into society. And if the means used, such as legal imposition, may not be the only possible or the pleasure of everyone, including women themselves, the truth is that it arises as a temporary measure — emphasis —, suitable to assist the emergence of a new culture, which will culminate in a more balanced presence of women and men in decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u72	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u73	That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will indeed end by saying that the initiative we are discussing is worthy, relevant and timely and, of course, we will follow it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u74	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a discussion which, applied to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, has been replicating a debate that was held in the Assembly of the Republic at the time of the consecration of legislation precisely in this regard, in the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic. The CFP, in this debate, has taken note of the position that has been taken, which has been adopted, because the question here is whether the participation of women, who are and continue to be minorityly represented in the sovereignty bodies, particularly in the Assembly of the Republic, in the regional legislative assemblies and in the local authorities, but which is desirable, should be left to the responsibility of the parties and the candidatures, which will be judged by the voters precisely for this reason, or whether there should be a legislative intervention which sets criteria in the presentation of the lists. And we are always in favour of the first solution. We always understand that this is a responsibility which parties and candidatures must assume before citizens and that citizens should have the opportunity to judge these candidatures, of course, by the aspects they understand, but also by this aspect. Therefore, we think it is a duty of the political forces to fight for a greater balance in the participation of both sexes in political life. And not only in political life, but in social and economic life, at all levels, and not only at the level of sovereign bodies, but also an important element. But it is a responsibility that must be assumed and each one must assume his or her responsibilities before the citizens. We have always taken note of the approval or imposition of administrative measures defining criteria for the free determination of applications, which must be the composition of its list. We understand the position expressed in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to consider that a uniformization of electoral laws will be desirable in this respect, but we cannot but express here the fundamental position we have taken with regard to the Assembly of the Republic and, of course, with regard to electoral laws for the legislative assemblies of the autonomous regions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries for speeches on this point, so we will move on to the next and last point of our agenda. Let us then proceed to the joint assessment of petition No 407 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by APEPN — Association of Parents and Education Officers of the Basic School and Children's Garden Park of the Nations, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic approve a position before the Minister for Education and Science to begin immediately the urgent construction of the second phase of the Park of the Nations School, and of the draft resolutions Nos. 1123 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the second phase of construction of the Basic School of the Park of Nations and ensure the material and human conditions appropriate to its functioning ( PCP ), 1075 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the conclusion of the integrated basic school of the Park of Nations ( BE ), 1180 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the conclusion of the second phase of the Integrated Basic School 1 / 2 / 3 with Garden of Children Park of the Nations, in Lisbon ( The Greens) and 1215 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the Integrated Basic School with the Park of Nations Children's Garden ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr David Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners present here and the citizens who subscribe to the petition which is discussed here today and which has more than 4000 signatures. instead of working to mitigate inequalities and ensure equal opportunities for all students at all levels of education, this PSD/CDS government closes, does not invest or strengthen the public network of educational institutions and finances private schools, as promotes dual school, stimulating greater elitisization of public education. Between 2011 and 2014, the PSD Government / CDS applied a cut in the public financing of basic and secondary education of EUR 1327 million. Obviously, these cuts have concrete implications for the quality of teaching and the material and human conditions of schools. Creating this scenario of negation of adequate material conditions in public school, combined with the lack of public response of the school network in the municipality of Lisbon, in response to the identified needs, the PSD/CDS government clearly favours private school. The Basic School of the Park of Nations came into operation in January 2011, with the prospect of a second phase of construction, of the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, with a view to the construction of classrooms for the 2. o is 3. the cycles, sports spaces, meals and other common spaces. The Lisbon Education Charter, approved by the Ministry of Education and Science, provided for the construction of a basic school integrated in the Park of Nations, in the time horizon 2009 / 2011. Four years later, the government failed to fulfil its responsibility. At present, this School is overcrowded in the face of existing physical conditions, with very negative reflexes and impacts on material conditions and, consequently, on pedagogical conditions. There is no space to teach physical expression and even the small recreation has only capacity for four classes simultaneously. It should also be noted that the absence of a meal obliges students to take meals in improvised rooms or even in the corridor, with damage to the normal functioning of the School. The PCP considers the start of the second phase of construction of this School as the current situation questions the appropriate frequency conditions and the well-being of students, teachers and employees. It is therefore extremely serious that the PSD/CDS Government does not begin its work. For all this, the CFP proposes that the opening of public tender should be initiated immediately for the construction of the second phase of the Basic School of the Park of Nations, with the timing of the execution of the entire work. The CFP also proposes that, in conjunction with the educational community, the best public response be ensured until the end of the works and the effective recruitment of employees, teachers and technicians necessary for the functioning of the Basic School of the National Park in the academic year 2015 / 2016. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u78	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners and the school community of the Parque das Nações and the eastern part of Lisbon, who have fought hard to get back to them what was promised, which is a school for their children. We know that, after the Expo’98, the eastern area, which includes the Park of Nations, has undergone a profound process of urban requalification and restocking. To a large extent, this repopulation happens, because there was a promise of public services that served these couples, these families, these young people who moved to the area. Among these promises was a school, which is the School of the Park of Nations, which was designed and promised to respond to the needs of that population, of those families, of those children: pre-school rooms, rooms for the three teaching cycles, which is added to what is normal for a minimum of pedagogical conditions, i.e. an auditorium, a library, a dining room and recreation spaces. Despite the promise, the School does not respond to the needs of the population and children. The first phase was completed, the second phase never saw the light of the day, it was planned, it had budgetary cabimentation, it was promised several times, but there is no, and the consequences are in sight: the school had, until recently — in the last school year — 14 classes, but has no support rooms, it does not have a library, it does not have an auditorium; when it rains, the children do not have to play, because there is no decent courtyard, covered, for that purpose — we visited the School and we saw these conditions; in order to receive new classes of 1. the cycle, it was necessary to improvise a dining room on the last floor, with the help of the House and the goodwill of the parents and the direction of this school; the pre-school children eat in the rooms where they play and have activities throughout the day; finally, it is a school without conditions to welcome these children. More: there is no way to ensure that, finished the 4th. the year, these children have continuity at school. In fact, the School that would be the alternative, which is the Basque School of Gamma, is bursting through the seams. So there is no stability for these children, there is no stability for these parents. We don't understand how, four years later...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u80	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u81	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we don't understand how four years later the school is about to end. The PSD and the CDS are now presenting us with a draft resolution that talks about unexplained legal forum matters. What is there to clarify in four years? Why don't they once explain what's going on and not finish school? Oh, my God! at a time when the government feels so concerned about birth, we recommend here the minimum: that it give conditions to children and families that already exist, that they do not have them and that they are fighting, and well, for the most basic, that it is a school for their children. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u82	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are on behalf of The Greens to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, especially those who are here with us today, a greeting that also extends to the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the School of the National Park and, in spite of the limitations, to the professionals of this School, teachers and non-teachers, for the effort they have come to develop so that the School can, in spite of the limitations, function as it works. following the non-compliance, by the Ministry of Education, the Basic School Integrated with the Garden of Children of the Park of Nations is an unfinished school and operating provisionally and only through the effort and dedication of the educational community has been possible to adapt the space available to the needs. For example, we can mention the fact that there is no restaurant, which makes children have to have meals, packaged and pre-packaged, in a single block, the absence of a gym, which makes it impossible for children to practice Physical Education, and the space for recreation is very small for the more than 400 children attending this school. It is therefore urgent to proceed with the construction of the second phase of this school, because without these works the School does not have the ability to offer the proper conditions to the students, as well as not being able to give continuity to the students of the 4. the year 1. the cycle, situation that, in fact, with all the opportunity, has worried parents and teachers. It seems unacceptable to us that these children cannot continue their studies at the school where they did their first years of education, because their school is unfinished and continues to wait for the Ministry of Education to decide to unlock the situation, which would be contrary to the whole spirit of the nearby school. It seems therefore totally unacceptable to us the situation that the School lives and becomes even more difficult to conceive, when there is an approved project, there is already a plot for its construction and the money for the work has been included in the various State budgets. However, in order not to further aggravate the situation, it is imperative that, in fact, the process of construction of this second stage be initiated immediately and, therefore, the Greens, together with the concerns of the petitioners, present a legislative initiative that meets the objectives of this petition. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it is not enough to say that it is a legal problem, everyone already knows it is a legal problem. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] The Ministry has to tell us what a legal problem there is! If there is a problem, Mr, there is a solution! The Ministry can't do what it does! For more than half a year, I asked what was the legal problem that existed, but I still look forward to the answer. Sir, if there's a legal problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u84	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, if there is a legal problem, tell us what is the legal problem. It is that, if there is a problem, there is a solution, because otherwise there is no problem. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u86	To present the draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS-PP, Mr Caldeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today petition No 407 / XII ( 3. a ), presented by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the School Basic and Kindergarten Park of the Nations ( APEPN ), in which the signatories request the urgent construction of the second phase of the School Park of the Nations. In my name, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group and on behalf of Mrs Isilda Aguincha, rapporteur for this petition, I welcome the more than 4000 subscribers to this initiative and greet them in a very special way, because it is never too much to highlight acts of citizenship of those who are attentive to the problems and, in a democratic way, contribute to their solution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u88	I am also pleased to highlight the whole commitment and the diligence of the Association of Fathers, in order to appeal to the conclusion of the second phase of the Park of Nations School, whose promise in 2010 was announced, with pump and circumstance, in a protocol signed for a physical space that—stop! — have forgotten to acquire or make available. Finally, more a promise without a plan of implementation or financial support, more an inheritance with which this government is faced, which has conditioned the realization of the legitimate aspiration of those living in this area of the city, which is, as we all know, an area of expansion and in which the number of children of school age has been increasing progressively. I stress that the Government has made efforts to overcome the issues of the unclarified legal forum which have extended and conditioned the realization of the fair aspirations of the inhabitants of the National Park. [[PCP and BE protests.]] But the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP, aware of all these constraints, presented a draft resolution, which is also discussed here today, in which they recommend to the Government that the Ministry of Education and Science should endeavour to ensure that legal issues are quickly overcome,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u89	What are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u90	...that the question of land, fundamental to the fulfilment of the desire for the construction of the second phase, is finally solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u91	But what are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u92	The inhabitants of the National Park deserve and are entitled to this important educational equipment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u93	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the association of parents and school education officers who are present to attend the session, who were decisive in mobilizing the community for this petition. I would also like to greet all the local elected members of the parish of Parque das NÃções present, a young parish, the youngest in the city of Lisbon, and therefore also its dynamic role is very revealing the importance of this community. Above all, I would like to welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who bring this issue here today. Indeed, with regard to history, much and practically everything has already been said: first phase already completed; protocol completed by the City Hall of Lisbon; the school in operation, but with a serious problem, with regard to the second stage, as mentioned; precarious access to the dining room; lack of library, auditory and effective conditions to make a school in what is a school: a place not where children are deposited, but where it is actually possible to provide quality education. And not only classrooms are missing right now, but these complementary equipment. In fact, what is discussed here today is to achieve, once and for all, what is already obvious, which is already obvious, and which, above all, is already budgeted. What is strange in the difficulty of achieving, once and for all, this project is that, since 2013 in the State Budget, we have repeatedly found the word for the construction of the school: in 2013 it was so; in 2014 so it was; in 2015 so it continues to be! However, it seems that there is a mysterious question, a question of the legal forum, which is not clear, which cannot be realized beyond this, but which, in reality, was at least the indication given to us when the question was discussed here in committee, and what was also said in the municipal assembly, where unanimously all the political forces called for the launch of the competition, is the fact that there are interpretative doubts as to ownership, as to the tenacity of some land.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u95	You don't want to go to school! It's an escape!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u96	Now, in a country that has a building record two centuries ago and in which, indeed, we are talking about lands transferred from public institutions, which have made them available for construction, it is not possible to continue to see how the resolution takes place, only from the point of view that is, at the beginning, the starting point for the construction of the school. So obviously there is a question that needs to be clarified, but it seems to us that it has been too long, and this has been the consensus between the school community, either in the municipal assembly where it was discussed, either here or today, I think, by all the political forces that call to start with the job, after the competition...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u97	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u98	Finally, Mr President, saying that in order to start with the competition procedure, the important thing is to put the point at this very point is not to say that there is a question of the legal forum to clarify, as if it were insurmountable — that it is not! We will obviously follow up the draft resolutions calling for the opening of the competitive procedure to build the school once, for the conclusion of the second phase and for finally conditions for the students of the Parque das Nações...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u99	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u100	...more than eventually to raise a question which is lateral, and which at this stage should have been overcome long ago. The children of the National Park deserve and urgently need a response from the Government. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u101	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to start by, of course, greeting and complimenting the petitioners and the association of parents of the National Park. This is a process that was born wrong and that is another inheritance of the Socialist Party. Ask the opposition here what the legal problem is. I must say that the opposition is certainly late for this debate. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u103	But we have been following what has been done since 2010 very early.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u104	And so far nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u105	And the story is very simple, sirs. Members: In 2010 the Socialist Party advanced with the construction of the first phase of the school without ensuring ownership of the land. [[Yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u106	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u107	Even in 2010, on the eve of legislative elections, the Socialist Party announced the second stage without solving the problem of ownership of the first stage of the ground or the second stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u108	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u109	I'd say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the expectations of the parents, the petitioners, is an absolutely legitimate expectation. It is absolutely legitimate that all this Parliament and, as you have pointed out, and well, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the municipal assembly itself, the municipal bodies as a whole, all political forces follow the position that this second phase of the work should be carried out. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u110	thus that a draft resolution of this majority has been submitted which only reinforces the intention of the parents and of these same petitioners. And what does this draft resolution say? You will tell the Government that if there are legal issues to be resolved, you will resolve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u111	If they don't say, they don't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u112	And that solves what has been — allow me to express myself — a trick of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u113	The Expropriations Code solves the rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u114	In short, it solves the questions, which launches the work so that the Park of Nations can have its school. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u115	Let's see how they vote tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-15.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow on 16 a.m. on 10 a.m. and the agenda will be completed with the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. in the end, there will be scheduled votes. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 47 minutes.]]
