ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Justice, Minister for Internal Administration, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin our agenda, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to do the right thing to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory, which falls to 1. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 794 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the collection of tolls until they are eliminated in defence of the rights of users of motorways ( PCP ), 795 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Integrates road fatality as a new objective of the municipal safety councils and makes the first amendment to Law No 33 / 98 of 18 July establishing the municipal safety councils ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission, 796 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanctions regime applicable to infringements of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 797 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 798 XII ( 4. ( a ) — Illicit enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 799 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of toll rates ( BE ), lower than 11. the Commission, 800 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Withdraws competence from the finance service for the establishment and instruction of procedures for counter-ordination for non-payment of toll rates ( eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June 2006 approving the sanction scheme for infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates is due) ( BE ), 801 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the control regime for unwarranted or undeclared property increases of holders of political and comparable positions ( PS ), 802 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents situations of abusive application of fines and other costs in cases of non-payment of tolls ( The Greens) and 803 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFPs ). In addition, draft resolutions Nos 1281 / XII ( 4 ) were introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of measures to combat skin cancer ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1282 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of demolitions in Ria Formosa ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1283 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by intervention with urgency in the recovery of CI1 - section Alcácer do Sal / Grándola ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1284 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government concerted action between authorities, regional government of the Azores and Parliament in negotiations with the Government of the United States of America on the Lajes Base ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 1285 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to the implementation of the National Forest Museum ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1286 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( PCP ) and 1288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic review the cost terms of the loan associated with PAEF-RAM in order to balance the interest charged to the Autonomous Region of Madeira with the interest earned by Portuguese public debt on the market ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission. I also announced the withdrawal of draft resolutions Nos 443 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government act as a matter of urgency a set of exceptional measures to deal with the damage caused by the fire in Tavira and São Brás de Alportel ( PS ) and 444 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a system of adequate means for the Autonomous Region of Madeira to support families and owners who have been proven to be affected by fires in the region as well as the restoration of forest and agroforestry potential ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda. As you know, the first point is the joint debate, in general, of several bills and a bill on combating terrorism. I will indicate the proposals for legislation, which will be submitted successively by the Minister of Internal Administration and the Minister of Justice, and the draft law under discussion. These are the following: proposals by lein.o 279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, updating the definition of terrorism, 280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), laying down new grounds for the granting of nationality by naturalization and for the opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality, 281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August establishing the legal regime for actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, allowing all illegal acts related to terrorism to be included in the actions covered, 282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime in order to cover all crime related to terrorism, 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 ( Counter-Terrorism Act), criminalising public apology and displacement for the practice of the crime of terrorism, 284 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 11 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory, amending the grounds for the granting and cancellation of visas and for the application of the ancillary expulsion penalty, 285 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act in order to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism and 286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, amending the composition of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the organization and operation of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit and draft Law No 797 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June ( PSD and CDS-PP ). As I indicated, proposals for legislation will be submitted successively by the Ministers of Internal Administration and Justice. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats and make a little less noise in the Chamber so that we can start the debate. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Terrorism is a serious threat to the European area of freedom, security and justice and the democratic rule of law. This phenomenon has found in Europe a fertile ground for violent, extremist and radical manifestations. As I have already had the opportunity to state in the hearing in 1. the Commission, the terrorist violence, or its threat, has always sought to condition social behaviour. It also seeks to force States to abdicate their moral superiority by forcing governments to adopt measures that are openly violating the democratic values that underpin the rule of law. It is therefore important for all of us to be aware that we cannot play these organisations. Thus, the defence of the basic principles of European construction, from the outset the freedom of movement of people in the Schengen area, are fundamental values that must be preserved. The need for an integrated and proportional response to terrorism in the European area requires national intervention by the competent authorities of the different Member States. The Government has therefore approved the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy as a commitment to the mobilization, coordination and cooperation of all national structures with responsibility for combating terrorism. Several lines of force have been defined for the continuation of the Strategy: strengthening the means of production, processing and analysis of information, as well as sharing of information; intensifying cooperation between all sectors of civil society, in particular to meet the challenges posed by the use of the Internet in the field of radicalization and recruitment; strengthening the systems of control of entry, stay and exit of persons from the national territory; strengthening the link between judicial, banking, financial and security forces and services involved in combating financing terrorism. In addition to the implementation plans, the strategy requires legislative changes arising from national needs and international and European imperatives. This is the context of the amendments we are presenting today. With regard to the Internal Security Act, the strengthening of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit extending its competences is highlighted, inter alia, to the coordination of plans for the implementation of the actions arising from the Strategy. The Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit acquires a clear direction, becoming dependent on and under the coordination of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System and assumes a variable geometry that allows it to adapt its operation without becoming a heavy structure. in the proposal of the so-called « foreign law », the amendments introduced aim to better implement and adapt preventive measures based on situations of danger or threat to public order, security or national defence. In summary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the amendments we are presenting to this House today, we want to adapt the country's security instruments to the terrorist threat by defending and strengthening the principles of democracy. Detecting, preventing, protecting, pursuing, responding to this phenomenon, in all its fronts, is the purpose. Only a fierce defence of values and principles that build up the democratic rule of law will be able to defeat the terrorist threat. I now ask the President to allow the Minister of Justice to present the following proposals for legislation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u5	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am now presenting the legislative amendments to the Government's initiative under this theme, which I think is a clearly cross-cutting issue. As regards Bill No 279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the twenty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure is made, updating the definition of terrorism. in the notion contained in the current Article 1. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, terrorism covers the crimes of terrorist organization, terrorism and international terrorism. This legislative amendment aims to add to the list referred to in that article the crime of financing terrorism, thereby harmonizing with Law No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003, i.e. the counter-terrorism law. in this way, where terrorism is referred to in the Code of Criminal Procedure, as is the case, in particular with the regime of preventive detention, the crimes covered for this purpose are all those we have just stated. As regards Bill No 280 / XII ( 4. ( a ) this legislative amendment creates a new requirement for the granting of Portuguese nationality by naturalisation: that the foreign citizen does not constitute a threat or danger to national security or defence. At the same time, it becomes the basis for the public prosecutor's opposition to the granting of nationality or the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by a foreign citizen to the fact that this constitutes a danger to national security or defence, thus harmonizing these provisions. It is also established that, where necessary, the Foreign and Border Service may consult other entities, other services, for the purpose of instructing the procedures for the acquisition of nationality by naturalization. With regard to Bill No 281 / XII ( 4. ( a ), let me stress that, in the concept contained in the current Article 2. the legal regime of actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, terrorism covers the crimes of terrorist organization and terrorism. This amendment aims to add to these crimes the list of the following: the financing of terrorism and international terrorism. This is once again a matter of harmonizing the diploma with Law No 52 / 2003. It is therefore legally permissible to carry out actions covered by the investigation of crimes of international terrorism and the financing of terrorism. As regards Bill No 282 / XII ( 4. ( a ), in the notion contained in Article 1. that of the law establishing measures to combat organized and economic-financial crime, terrorism covers the crimes of terrorist organization and terrorism. This amendment also aims to add crimes of international terrorism and financing of terrorism once again in an effort to harmonise. Thus, the special arrangements for collecting evidence, breaking professional secrecy and loss of property for the State, provided for in the law establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime, also applies to crimes of international terrorism and financing of terrorism. with regard to Bill No 283 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which is intended to extend the scope of the terrorist crime provided for in Article 4. Law No 52 / 2003. Thus, new types of terrorist crime are created, such as the public apology of the crime of terrorism, which is punishable by imprisonment for up to 3 years or fine for up to 360 days, and if this apology is done through the Internet, the penalty is aggravated for imprisonment for up to 4 years or penalty for up to 480 days. Similarly, it is criminalized the act of travelling or trying to travel to a territory other than where they reside or where they are from, with the intention of receiving training, training or providing logistical support to those engaged in the practice of terrorist acts, or of joining a terrorist group, or of committing terrorist acts. People who organize, finance or facilitate such travel or travel attempts are also punished. It is also criminalized the act of accessing or obtaining access to websites that incite terrorism. The penalty for the crime of incitement to terrorism is compounded. Finally, with Bill No 285 / XII ( 4. ( a ), the list of reserved exclusive investigative powers of the Judicial Police is extended. I want to finish, ladies. Members, saying that this matter is wanted as transversal and consensual as possible. It is therefore fully available to the Government to receive certain densifications or connections which may prove necessary in the field of expertise. I would also like to make it clear that, with regard to the Framework Law on Criminal Policy, it will be presented here in due course set out in its Framework Law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u7	There are several Mrs. Members registered to ask questions to the Ministers of Internal Administration and Justice, and Mr António Filipe directs his question to both Ministers. I believe that, if you agree, we will be able to put the questions in the right direction to one of the Ministers and then to the other so that there is not a somewhat disturbing alternance between the answers. The Government informed the Bureau that it would answer together and therefore the questions addressed to the Minister of Internal Administration will be raised first. You therefore have the floor to ask questions, Mr José de Matos Correia, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u8	Madam President, as announced, I will raise one or two questions, to be more precise, to the Minister of Internal Administration, asking the Minister of Justice to point out my failure, because then my party partner Hugo Velosa will ask the Minister of Justice a question. My first note is to convey our conviction that the Government has been successful in promoting this set of legislative initiatives, which have, firstly, gone through the adoption of the new National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and, then, by this set of legislative amendments, which are nevertheless significant, since they detail and complement some aspects that are important, to the point of view of the instruments that security forces and services need to combat terrorism in an even more effective way. I also think it is to praise the manner in which the Government has done so. Portugal — we all know — is not, fortunately, a country, in the first line, the target of terrorism and therefore the fact that we are prepared for this kind of threat should not lead us to create an environment which would, of course, be inadequate and inadequate in relation to this phenomenon. with regard to questions, and in order not to spend much time, I would just like to leave two questions to the Minister of Internal Administration. The first — and the Minister will also stress the fact that I am taking advantage of certain national defence functions here in Parliament — is a question about the link between the security forces and the armed forces. It is a matter of greater relevance, of great sensitivity, on which, unfortunately, in Portugal there are still many complex, but it is indisputable that, even in democratic states, and there are many of our partners where this is happening, it is essential that this coordination be increasingly effective and that the Armed Forces can have an important role in this area without complex and fear. I would therefore like to ask you what the Government's reflection on this matter is. The second question is -I am prompted by some developments which, by coincidence, have certainly occurred in the public space today. We have been aware that a number of qualified people in our society, whether academics or former governors, will present—we still do not know the exact context of the study that has been done, because we only know what comes in the newspapers—a set of ideas on internal security issues. I believe that the model with which we have been working in Portugal is the right model for the political majority, and that is, in fact, the transversal model for internal security, and in particular, since this is what we are discussing today in the fight against terrorism. But, as some of these ideas are already, I repeat, in the public space, I would like to have a comment from the Minister of Internal Administration on these same ideas and on the assessment that the Government makes of them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u9	The next question is from Mr José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u10	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, at a meeting where the Minister presented to us the general lines that were based on this legislative package, The Greens had the opportunity to express not only their concerns to the Government but also some matters which, in her view, are very relevant in this fight. On concerns, of course, the need to seek solutions without compromising citizens' fundamental rights, which was and is, for us, a point of honor, because, if we all agree on the need to combat terrorism, it is also true that, for us, there are limits, and these are the values that shape the rule of law and our constitution. On the issues that we consider important in combating terrorism, we refer to the need for the Government to commit itself to actively within the European Union and other international organizations in promoting peace policies between peoples and States; we refer to the need to adopt measures to combat the financing of terrorism through offshore and other little or no clear practices; we refer to the need to see in schools an important stage in this fight, especially when we talk about the prevention of violence, which Mrs Minister stressed with enthusiasm, but in all the Government proposals these measures are not visible. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, we also referred to the need to provide the security forces and services with adequate means to materialise the legislative package that the Government is proposing. The question that I ask you, Minister, is the following: do you consider that the services and security forces are now equipped with human, technical, technological and financial resources to be able to develop the work that the Government is now proposing in these proposals? It is that, in fact, with laws, but without means, we are not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u12	The next question is from Mrs Cecilia Honorio, the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u13	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Ministers of Internal Administration and Justice, the Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, I am going to take a decision on a number of bills that I think I have tabled here. The simple questions as to whether the Left Block believes that it is necessary to combat terrorism as a threat to democracy, we answer that yes; whether it is necessary to adjust the legal framework to changes in the phenomenon, of course. however, I leave some questions to you about, on the one hand, the means available for this fight and, on the other, the reflection they have made on the effectiveness of these proposals and their need. I should like to ask you the following: with regard to the reflection that has been made within the European Union or even the recommendations of the UN Security Council, why has the Government chosen to sidetrack the fight against the use of illegal weapons and explosives, devalued this issue, and at the same time has been further than the recommendations and opted for the criminalization of the apology of terrorism? What reflection did you support these options? Center me on two bills. As regards the proposal for law No 284/ XII ( 4. ( a ) on the so-called immigration law, in our view, Mrs Minister, there is no need to justify the amendment now made. This law has enough locks. It is, in our view, a sufficiently secure law. This non-target concept is introduced here of « people who constitute danger», because, in fact, by taking the « grave» (the adjective thus falls) the « threat to public order, safety or public health » were already recognized in the law as criteria for conditioning. These aspects are conditionality requirements for visas, visa cancellations and the same « danger theory», I call it, are present in the accessory penalty of expulsion for citizens who have permanent residence in our country. This rather than simply being reasonable, which is the « sufficiently serious threat ». Mrs. Minister, allowing this law so much already, I ask you what you needed to raise the need to move into the law with these contours. from our point of view, and to prove otherwise, this proposal opens the door to arbitrary control of our immigrants, which we find absolutely unnecessary and counterproductive on fundamental rights issues. As regards Bill No 286 / XII ( 4. ( a) amending the Internal Security Act, reshaping the Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit in a rather profound way and at the same time granting it extended competences, such as the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, which has renewed competences here. This unit can integrate non-OPC entities (criminal police bodies); it goes far beyond ensuring coordination and information sharing, as enshrined in the law so far; it coordinates plans for the implementation of the actions envisaged in the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, as approved in the Council of Ministers; it is responsible for the implementation of its five strategic objectives, and I point out two: pursue, which is the action to dismantle or neutralize terrorist initiatives, and respond, which consists of the operational management of all means to be used. Therefore, Madam Minister, in this enlargement of such broad competences, in an entity that may have entities within it that are not criminal police bodies, I wonder if this Unit will have investigative powers. This extension of competences, in conjunction with the objectives enshrined in this National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, legitimately leaves us this doubt about the profile of competences, particularly in the field of research and, finally, we address the concerns expressed in the opinion of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor on this issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u14	The next question is from Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister of Internal Administration, before asking you any questions, I would like to congratulate you on this further presence in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. Then we will ask the Minister for Justice another question. My question, Mrs Minister of Internal Administration, is about the prompt response — and from this point of view, it is common to congratulate the Government — on a matter which was being worked, which was being dealt with, but which in fact gained particular urgency at the international level and also at the national level, in particular from the attacks in Paris and then in Denmark. It would be unthinkable that Europe — and in Europe, Portugal — would not at present have had a number of effective measures to combat terrorism, and these attacks, particularly those in Paris, had — as at the time one of the main French reference newspapers entitled — the effect of being, to some extent, an '11 September Europe'. In other words, the effect and concern for Europe is comparable to that of the United States of North America, and the United States has different characteristics and even different external border protection in relation to Europe, but it has indeed had that effect. from our point of view, to a large extent, the central issue is that today we are faced with a phenomenon of terrorism that is different from the initial terrorism, although having the same root of radicalism, for example, Islamic fundamentalism, as is the case. Why? Because, while the first attacks came from countries where indoctrination was made and were displaced—as happened, for example, in the United States with the attacks of Al-Qaeda and with the beginning of Al-Qaeda, these attacks by citizens outside the borders of these States themselves—what we have seen now in Paris are attacks that start from communities located in the suburbs of our main capitals, namely Paris, London, Brussels, to say three of the capitals where, we know, there is a greater factor of recruitment. Obviously, our obligation — the obligation of any government — is to guarantee the safety of our citizens within our borders. That is an obligation we cannot give up under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u17	But when I talk about "guarantee" it is obviously trying to balance freedom with security, to know how far we can not ignore our fundamental freedoms to ensure that same security. And here, of course, there are essential questions. The pillars are very well defined in the various diplomas presented here: strengthening the cooperation of the security forces and also the intelligence forces; combating arms trafficking and hindering access to arms, including heavy arms by these organizations; following money, as is said today, the movement of capital or financing of the same terrorist networks; paying attention to the Internet not only cyberterrorism, as a form of dissemination, recruitment and appeal to terrorism; and, of course, more effective border control, until we know that there are at least 5000 young Europeans, with nationality from European countries, who are currently fighting alongside the Islamic State and who can, at any time, return and, of course, will be a danger. The CDS, at the time, was even critical to some extent of the Law of Nationality presented by the Socrates Government. In fact, at the time we considered it too flexible in terms of nationality. But now I didn't want to get into this discussion. The measures provided for here seem to me appropriate and, on the contrary, Mrs Minister, the issue which I think is essential...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u18	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u19	I shall conclude, Madam President, with two concrete questions. Mr Minister, regardless of the issue of immigration and immigration laws, when the problem may be within our borders, there is a fundamental issue, which is prevention, monitoring, knowledge, dealing with leaders — with community leaders, religious leaders even — so that such prevention and warning can be made. Second question, Mrs Minister: is there a means to strengthen or not? Is it possible or not? Can we or should we not think of strengthening means — whether human means or technological means, or, above all, means of expertise to combat these phenomena? In short, can we or can we not think and count on strengthening means? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u20	The Bureau also records Mr António Filipe, who wishes to ask questions addressed simultaneously to the two Ministers and is therefore responsible for this first set of questions. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, my question will be addressed at this stage to the Minister of Internal Administration, without prejudice to any questions to which the Minister of Justice considers that she must answer. Therefore, from our point of view, the question will be addressed to one of the Ministers who believes he is in a position to answer. Of course, this package of legislative measures has different aspects, raises various questions, which we will be putting not in the Question Time but in an intervention. at this stage of the debate, there is an issue which we believe should already be raised and which has to do with, in particular, the proposal for law No 283 / XII ( 4 ). a ), which is what we understand, raises more sensitive problems from a legal-criminal point of view, given the extent of the criminalisation which is intended to take effect. In fact, if we check the wording of this bill, we find, in particular, the criminalization of the facilitation of the attempt to travel with the intention of being recruited for a terrorist association, which in turn intends to practice terrorist acts. That is to say, we have a long criminalization path here that is not left for the attempt, nor for the preparatory acts, but for the attempt of preparatory acts. It's hard to criminalize, it's hard to criminalize. The same is true of the problem of access to electronic messages accessible via the Internet or with electronic support. It also criminalizes those who access electronic messages with the intention of being recruited to an organization that intends to practice certain acts. The question is the following: how criminal law has a punitive aspect, but it also has a preventive aspect — we have criminal police bodies that have a function to prevent crime — what means is it possible, without violating fundamental rights and guarantees, to prevent such acts? I mean, are we going to monitor all access to all sites? Are we going to monitor the Facebook of all citizens to see if a certain citizen has access to a site that may be linked to a terrorist organization, even if that citizen can do so even for reasons of investigation? With regard to travel, will we monitor the whole travel marking movement, via Internet sites, through travel agencies? In short, we have here, in fact, a difficult question to equalize and I would like to know what the Ministers have to say about the possibility of operationalizing and monitoring these types of crimes, if they are in fact criminalized. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u22	I will now give the floor to the Minister of Internal Administration to answer. I believe that the Minister of Justice will be able to answer later when asked by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u23	Madam President, I begin by answering the question that concerns the involvement of the Armed Forces in the fight against terrorism. in the framework of the Strategy, the deepening of cooperation between the security forces and the armed forces in the face of possible terrorist threats was envisaged. In addition, this cooperation is already under the Internal Security Act and the Armed Forces act on the basis of detailed plans and programmes as foreseen in the Strategy. In short, there is a deepening of this cooperation between the Armed Forces and security forces, within the legal and constitutional competences established. As for the study to which you referred and which will be made public this afternoon, I must say that it is a scientific reflection, directed, in fact, by a recognized academic and as such, as a scientific reflection, I understand that it must be analyzed. And when it comes to taking political options, these scientific reflections should always be taken into account. Today, the institutional framework in which internal security moves is adequate, and it is true that improvements can always be made. As for the means needed to implement the strengths of this strategy, I must say that the means are always scarce, by definition, and it is always possible to do better with the same means. But I would say that the question here is that, internally, the means available are never enough and that the fight against terrorism is a common struggle, it is a shared struggle. That is why cooperation, not only at European level, but also internationally, is very important, and it is, of course, necessary to highlight the creation of synergies, savings and the creation of efficiency in the use of the means. In short, the fight against terrorism is not done solely at national level, especially within the framework of international European cooperation, by promoting, as the Strategy points out, cooperation with European entities which, from the very beginning in the field of prevention, develop a very important work — I can quote Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, etc. As regards the strengthening of the link between information services and security forces, I would like to say to Mrs Cecilia Honorio, who, I believe, referred to the strengthening of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit, which is not, in any way, a matter of conferring research powers on this Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit. By nature, it is not a research entity; it is just that, with these legislative amendments, it introduces a new way of operation of this Unit, which, in fact, will have a variable geometry, just to allow us to say so in its normal functioning model, to be perfectly sure that it is what it has always been: a unit of coordination and information sharing. So from this point of view, there is no problem. With regard to the vagueer concepts that can be used in some law, as in the law of foreigners, the fact is that information services are already using objective criteria to classify threats and, therefore, to classify also the dangers they present and it was considered that this methodology does not call into question the assessment to be made of the danger. As regards Mr António Filipe's question, I believe that the Minister of Justice can answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u24	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to questions to Mrs Minister for Justice, and we have already had the question put by Mr António Filipe. Mrs Cecilia Honorio, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u25	Mr President, Minister of Justice, we will approve some of the legislative initiatives; however, I continue to focus on the problems and what we believe are proposals which have no meaning or which are harmful to the framework of guarantees we recognize. Mrs. Minister, on the Law of Nationality, we would like to know what is necessary to move in this Law. On nationality by naturalization as recognised in Article 6. the, is now introduced this negative requirement: foreigners who « do not constitute a danger or threat to national security and defence ». The same criterion of danger, threat to security and national defence occurs in relation to the opposition to the acquisition of nationality. This is, in our view, the use and even the strengthening of non-objective concepts. I would like to note that the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor states on this matter that these open and abstract concepts which are appreciated by administrative entities, without the provision of intervention by the court, give the margin, and I quote, «to defend the unconstitutionality of this norm». I ask the Minister of Justice to agree with this opinion. With regard to Bill No 283 / XII ( 4. ( a ) presented here, I shall focus particularly on the question of access to sites in Article 4. the, especially in the formulation of paragraph 5, which states: « Who, with the intention of being recruited for the practice of the facts(... ), with the intention referred to therein, access or gain access(...) » and which is, for us, finally, very ambiguous. The wording of this issue has much to say to you, but what is required is that the Minister give objective answers to the following questions: who defines exactly what are prohibited sites? Is there a previous blacklist of public knowledge? How is access to these websites controlled? How do you know someone's intention, if you're not accessing all your accesses, forgive me the repetition? The intention is proved only later, therefore, by the fact that this proposal for a law is a reason for the investigation, even when accidental or intentional, in the context of research, journalistic work or academic work. Accidentally, access can be a target for research. If we articulate this with the databases of data retention, of traffic and of location, to maintain this formulation, we see the dangers that may arise here. I am sure, however, that the Minister of Justice will be able to respond to these very deep concerns about these two proposals of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u26	The next question is from Mrs Teresa Anjinho, Mrs CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u27	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments that we are discussing today are of great importance and today, as we all well recognise. by convening the demanding balance which Mr Telmo Correia has already invoked, between freedom and security, in a secure design, in our view, guarantees full respect for what are the fundamental principles and guarantees of a democratic rule of law, even if it brings some challenges, or is not for debate, so that these restrictions or weights are discussed. They underlies, in our view, reasons for criminal policy that are inconsequential. Terrorism is a serious threat to national and international peace, freedom and security, and today we are witnessing the increase of terrorist episodes with new contours, both in terms of the structure itself and in terms of the actions themselves, highlighting, to this end, the special perversion of the new media by having in particular the Internet and the escalation of violence, fanaticism and the intolerance of the acts in question. Finally, it is also clear that there is a need to integrate national efforts into what are European efforts and international efforts, optimising, strengthening and strengthening all the structures which, as the Minister of Internal Administration mentioned, have direct and indirect responsibility in combating this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u29	In short, the aim is to print greater coherence in planning and ensure greater effectiveness in combat. I would like to focus our attention on what are the amendments aimed at criminalizing public apologies to the crime of terrorism, which are autonomous and aggravated in cases of the practice of crime via the Internet, as well as travel abroad with a view to the practice of the crime of terrorism. Mr Minister, in fact, the challenges exist and, made this framework, the questions that can be asked are, in fact, more up and down the proposals under discussion. In other words, preventive and repressive intervention is necessary, which is indeed effective. I therefore ask what measures are being considered in the area of prevention, particularly in the context of detection and in the context of the Internet, which we must recognize, is the ideal arena for terrorist organisations. Terrorism has often been conceptualized as a form of war, with an enormous psychological dimension, being a privileged means of execution on the Internet. There are campaigns that we can somehow roll out campaigns of fear and that are even conditioners of behavior. There are messages that are controlled by terrorist organizations themselves, in particular by manipulating their images and images of their enemies. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, who classifies a threat as potentially terrorist and who then determines the measures to be taken, in particular the blocking of the so-called « radical» sites. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u30	The question is followed by Mr Hugo Velosa of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u31	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am addressing the Minister of Justice, but I must say that I will not ask questions themselves, but some reflections on this matter. Firstly, I would like to say that we have noted, in this first round of questions, some widespread adherence to this set of measures which have been prepared by the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Justice, despite some questions that have already been raised and some doubts that have arisen. The second point that I think it is important to make is that, in reality, it was good for the government to have acted with this speed before a subject and a problem that affects so many citizens around the world outside and here in Europe, in particular. There is no doubt that this speed, particularly after the informal European Council of 12 February, on this matter has been of great value and is very important to all of us. The thoughts I would like to leave have to do with the necessary international cooperation at the judicial level in order to implement these measures at the legislative level. I would like you to tell us what has happened and what you think is going to happen at this level. Secondly, I would like to mention the role of the Judicial Police in investigating these new crimes, as contained in one of the proposed laws that you entered the House. Of course, it is with great satisfaction that we see that the Portuguese can trust that the Judicial Police is trapped and has the means to be able to investigate these new types of crimes that are now included in the terrorist activity. The third question I put here has already been put by Mr António Filipe. from a personal point of view, I have no doubt that there are no problems here, but we have just received the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which raises the question of how this crime of access to the Internet will be covered with the intention of integrating a terrorist organization. Of course, at first sight, we will be able to raise questions of the scope and application of the law in this area, but I would like the Minister to refer to this issue. Finally, I wanted to say once again to the two Ministries for their work in Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u32	You have the floor to speak to the Minister of Justice for reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by clarifying that, although we all bear in mind jihadist terrorism, which is, in fact, exponentially, a tremendous seriousness and cruelty, we are also discussing extreme-right terrorism and solitary wolves. It's good that we're going for all this kind of thing that exists. I have made the point, then, to answer some common questions put by Mrs Cecília Honorio, Mr António Filipe and Mrs Teresa Anjinho. With regard to the question of access to the Internet, as it is controlled or not, whether we know that access is for research or not, or whether it is, in fact, for commission and apology of a crime, I would say that all this research is going on as research in the context of access to pornography sites with minors, pedophilia. It is precisely in the same terms, but I see no problem in establishing here another element of connection that they understand necessary. Now, from a research point of view, it's exactly the same terms. I would therefore say that there is no specificity in this matter in terms of criminal investigation. How are you going? Through the IP ( InternetProtocol ). Much more do not ask me, because, technically and objectively, I will not be able to explain from a technical point of view this journey. I know that the investigation is done exactly in the same terms as that of access to the appointment of meetings by the paedophiles on their sites. On the question of nationality, there was not exactly a safe intention, to press, which was very clear from the very first moment. We did not do as other legal systems, which, for example, prevented the withdrawal of nationalities, etc. , until this was to fall into a statelessness status, which would be very complex and which, in our view, would definitely push people to these conditions. As for the question of proof, there is the direct proof, there is indirect proof and there is the circumstantialism of the individual. And it is precisely by helping us of these issues, both provided for in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, that we densify these concepts. But I'm saying again that I'm not opposed to Mr. Members find a formula that reassures them more — which I think will be difficult, but I admit as much as possible — to which we are completely open. But it is, with all honesty, exactly the same as it was already happening. On travel attempts, the problem lies in other territories. Attention, which we do not have here countries, because, at the moment, there are situations that are no longer contained in the concept of the country, so we report to territories, where they are also worth exactly the same principles of criminal investigation, exactly the same principles: there is circumstantialism, there is direct proof and there is indirect proof in the field of research. You don't have to be classifying sites, because nobody even classifys pedophilia sites. The point is not that, the point is how research develops. Therefore, we are no longer within the legislative framework, but within the framework of the operation, of the operationality of conducting these investigations. There are two plans, the legislative plan and the operational plan, as we know. On a question raised by Mrs Cecília Honorio, also on criminal investigation, which is also related to the area of justice, it is clear that the UCAT (Unidad de Coordinación Antiterrorista ) will not do criminal investigation, as it is obvious. We have this well-defined and constitutionally marked issue and therefore we cannot go beyond it. Mr. Hugo Velosa, even the last time I was here, I had the opportunity to present a set of diplomas which, part of them, dealt with international judicial cooperation. It was clearly the strengthening of international judicial cooperation not only with regard to the exchange of information but also with arrest warrants and co-operation measures to be carried out in other countries. The Judiciary Police has, fortunately, excellent, excellent international cooperation, and I am referring to the area of terrorism, but no one can guarantee, in the face of terrorism and its dissemination, that nothing happens, as is evident. But at least we have done everything possible for the allocation of resources, as it is known, through the new headquarters and means that this headquarters has, laboratories and, finally, now, the admission of more than 120 officers to the Judicial Police. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the stage of the speeches, for which the Bureau has already entered. The first is from Mr José Matos Correia, by the PSD, to which Mrs will be followed for now. Deputies Jorge Lacão, PS, and Antonio Filipe, of the PCP. I give the floor to Mr José de Matos Correia, who will also take advantage of it to refer to Bill No 797 / XII ( 4. ( a). You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are conducting today is a direct and logical consequence of the Government's approval of the national counter-terrorism strategy, which was officially published on 20 February. And my first note rightly concerns the decision to make the Council of Ministers resolution public in which this strategy is consistent. I believe that more than a correct decision was an important option. I'd say it's really twice as important. It is important, therefore, from the point of view of public perception, because it appears very relevant, for the congregation of efforts that the successful fight against terrorism requires, that society as a whole should look at the following direction and the measures to be taken, but also important, in terms of the indispensable scrutiny of what is, in this area, the activity of the Government. If the fight against terrorism is to be seen by all as a task of everyone, it must be recognized that it is up to the public authorities in general and the Executive in particular to play a special role. That is also why it is to praise the attitude of a government that shares with the national community the guidelines it defines and the way it intends to give them body. It follows from previous statements that the construction of an extended political consensus on the essential aspects of the national strategy to combat terrorism is in itself a value of first magnitude. Terrorism, idle, would be to say it, is an insidious and limitless enemy, who knows how to take advantage, for his benefit, of the weaknesses of those who choose, at every moment, as a target. in this measure, the existence of divisions on how to deal with it can only weaken a community in the face of the terrorist phenomenon, since it exposes it more than others who know how to unite around the objectives, means and procedures appropriate to prevent it and to combat it. This is particularly true of the concern that the Government has been able to put in the dialogue with the opposition, in the search for solutions which, on the one hand, are the most appropriate to halt this difficult battle and which, on the other hand, are based on as broad a support as possible. I should therefore like to highlight on this occasion also the sense of responsibility and the position of cooperation demonstrated, in particular, by the main opposition party in the framework of the adoption of the national counter-terrorism strategy. And at the same time, to express the desire that this constructive attitude should be extended to the discussion and, above all, to the direction of vote in relation to the various legislative initiatives which are currently under consideration. I therefore only wish that the prolonged silence of the Socialist Party in this debate would mean that it is available to reverse its attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u37	This Government and this majority, aware that they are in the interest of Portugal and the Portuguese, consistently and systematically, appeal to the Socialist Party to be able to engage in building the understandings and commitments that the achievement of a better future requires, have done so on every occasion. For not knowing or not wanting to do so, the Socialist Party systematically refused to work in this way. Therefore, with the same frankness and transparency with which we have criticised a negative attitude that greatly undermines the national interest, we do not want to leave this occasion to stress the willingness expressed by the Socialist Party to help build the consensus that objectively reinforces our position in combating terrorism. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the national strategy to combat terrorism clearly defines the five fundamental axes in which the fight against this scourge must be stopped: to detect, because it is essential to identify early the potential threats; to prevent, because it is necessary to know and identify the causes that determine it; to protect, because it is important to strengthen the security of priority targets; to pursue, because terrorist initiatives and their support networks must be dismantled or neutralized as soon as possible; to respond, because it is essential to operate all the means to be used. at the same time, the national strategy also stresses the decisive contribution that should be made by coordination and cooperation mechanisms, whether it relates to the central and strengthened role of the anti-terrorism coordination unit, whether it relates to the relationship between armed forces and security forces, which, with advantage, should be subject to a thorough review within the future constitutional review, since, in view of the intrinsic nature of the terrorist phenomenon, the artificiality of the line that separates internal security issues and external security matters is increasingly evident, that it also relates to the importance of the linkage between national, European and international dimensions, as well as to the synergies that this collaboration propitiates. In this regard, I would like to make a particular mention of this last dimension. If it is true that the fight against terrorism is waged on the ground by the competent authorities of each State, it is no less certain that this fight will hardly succeed without a concerted and engaging response, which can only be achieved with a consonance of purposes and efforts at the international and European levels. Let us be clear: terrorism is today a global threat that requires a global response and therefore we must all understand that when we cooperate in this fight, wherever it is caught, we are not only contributing to the increase in general security but also to the improvement of our own security. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When presenting political parties with the essential lines of the national counter-terrorism strategy, the Government will not fail to announce that it would be justified to move forward with some specific adjustments to the legislation on this matter. These are precisely those specific adjustments that can be found in the eight proposals for the government's authorship here under discussion, which have joined a bill of responsibility for the majority, designed to amend Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June and which aims, in the context of combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, to extend the duties of non-financial entities in order to cover entities linked to the gambling area. The first finding that we should withdraw — and with it we should also rejoice — is that Portugal today has a very appropriate framework for preventing and combating terrorism, which only justifies small and limited improvements. The second finding is that the very narrow nature of the proposed innovations does not remove them either the meaning or the usefulness. Because a discussion in general is that, and therefore is not the appropriate place to exude the details of the initiatives, I will not extend this kind of analysis. However, I consider it important to draw attention to the relevance, in particular, of the standardization and expansion of the definition of the crime of terrorism, in order to include international terrorism and the financing of terrorism; to the change of the requirements for naturalization or opposition to the acquisition of nationality; to the criminalization of the apology of terrorism or travel to join terrorist organizations; to the extension of the grounds for refusal of visa or for its cancellation; and, lastbutnotleast, to the increase of competences of the counter-terrorism unit and to the choice of its place in dependence and under the coordination of the Secretary-General of the internal security system. I am convinced that these are solutions that point to the right path and that should merit broad consensus in the discussions that will follow and in which the majority is available and interested in analyzing the suggestions that opposition parties intend to present. In this regard, I should like to leave here a note which appears to me justified and timely: the laws are, in this and in other areas, indispensable instruments for the achievement of the objectives that we wish to achieve, but perhaps so, or even more relevant than the legal standards, sometimes concrete actions, continued efforts, information sharing, operational consultations. In other words, good laws are not enough. It is crucial that the paths to which they point should be tracked properly. in this context, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to once again, on behalf of the PSD, to express the deepest respect and admiration that our security forces and services deserve, for their invaluable contribution to our freedom and security. in its performance, these forces have always shown to be in keeping with the challenges that we are faced with, and I do not hesitate to affirm my conviction, our conviction, that with now strengthened instruments they will continue on this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly not be original, nor do I intend to be, if I say here that terrorism is one of the greatest challenges, perhaps even the greatest, to the stability of our societies. Regardless of the multiple manifestations in which it unfolds or the various configurations it assumes, its purpose is one: to destroy the pillars of our democratic organizations; to overthrow the master beams of the rule states we have been able to build and to which we want to remain faithful; to attack tolerance and respect for the other, on which our way of life is based. When all that is at stake there is no fairness possible, there is no acceptable tolerance, there is no tolerance. That is why today's question is very simple: whether it is against terrorism and available to fight it in all its forms or to deal with it, even if it is for omission or permissivity. For us, we have no doubt as to which side we are on and which side we want to continue to be on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u41	in this prolonged and difficult confrontation there is, however, a clear limit that cannot be exceeded in any case: that of the binding to the values by which we lead ourselves and to the principles around which we add ourselves. If we do not do and give in to the temptation to accept that, in view of the danger of the threats and the magnitude of the goods we want to protect, the nobleness of the ends is justified by the use of all kinds of means, then only for that reason can the apologists of terrorism claim victory. But this one, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an obvious path to which Portugal and the Portuguese have consistently resisted and I am absolutely sure that we will always reject it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u42	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Lacão for an intervention by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has endeavoured to contribute to the establishment of a climate of broad national consensus around the Government's review of the national counter-terrorism strategy. We have already had the opportunity to state publicly our adherence to the fundamental guidelines contained in this same strategy, as we are aware, that the objectives of prevention and combating terrorism are not primarily a question of political orientation for a government, and much less for a party, because they are a fundamental matter of State which must stir up the support and commitment of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u45	We are also aware that the effort to prevent and combat terrorism is something that is not closed at the national borders of the States. It is something that has an international and transversal nature today, which implies that any strategy, in order to succeed, commit itself, and strongly, to creating a climate of deep participation of the institutions, in this case, of the Portuguese institutions, in the organizations we are part of. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am referring, in particular, to the need to cooperate actively with Europol, with the Eurojust network, to seek that in the development of European policies, with regard to the Frontex Agency (European Agency for the Management of External Borders ), support mechanisms are developed, in particular those States such as the Portuguese State which, having a large border which is at the same time the external border of the European Union and, in our case, the maritime border, implies particular attention, as we also encourage the Government to ensure that, within the EuroMed Group, adequate participation in the phenomena of terrorism, particularly those which, from a geographical point of view, can also negatively influence the Portuguese territorial area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this set of considerations is part of the appreciation of the state-of-the-art legislative initiatives presented by the Government here today. The Socialist Party will generally vote in favour of this set of initiatives, of course, without prejudice to the fact that we are also engaged in specialist work, and here we are trying to compete for the improvement of solutions. however, I would also like to draw the attention of the House and the Government itself to something we consider relevant. Several of the new types of crime, particularly those already mentioned here, which involve new types of crimes committed via the Internet or those involving the criminalization of travel to areas of terrorist practice or support for such travel are crimes which, by their nature, have a transnational dimension. It will therefore be justified to call on the Government to ensure that, within the framework of the European institutions, it is precisely under the possible provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon and within the framework of the European Area of Freedom, Security and Justice that it seeks to define Community directives which harmonise the treatment of these illegals, given their transnational nature. If this is not done, we are at risk of breakdowns of harmonisation as to the identification of the types that are included in these new crimes, as to the definition of the criminal frameworks and as to the methods of prevention and combating the factology that is linked to them. That is why this commitment, and again within the framework of the European area, is absolutely important within the framework of Portugal's political priorities. I would like to point out, too, and with regard to the proposals put forward, some comments. with regard, for example, to the proposed revision under the Internal Security Act to strengthen the capacities of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit, placing it now under the dependence of the Secretary-General for Internal Security, we agree and we believe that this is a positive step. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are still some provisions which have not been revised and in our view they deserved to be. I report in particular to the standard that says, and I quote it: « In extraordinary situations of terrorist attacks or serious or disaster accidents, the joint operations made necessary are coordinated by the Secretary-General of Internal Security », but then, and only after, there is a prior determination of the Prime Minister and then, and only after, to make informed notice to the President of the Republic. Let us meditate on what this can mean in emergency situations: a set of distances that can compromise the operational capacity of the integrated internal security system to occur, in time and time, to situations precisely arising from terrorist attacks or serious disasters, which is why we intend to take advantage of the time for a deeper review of the Internal Security Law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently heard the Minister of Justice say that, in due course — and I stress the expression 'in due time' — the Government would come forward with the proposal for a law for the implementation of criminal policy. The fact is that the Government is completely relativised in this matter. As we know, criminal policy guidance laws are based on the Criminal Policy Framework Law, which determines that such laws should have a biannual periodicity and therefore be renewed every two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u46	You've had an answer in 1. the Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u47	It happens that the last lifetime ended in 2011. It is therefore the case that under this legislation and under the responsibility of the Government the Government is in complete breach of the proposal for a law implementing criminal policy. Will it make sense and will it be important when we define guidelines on prevention and combating terrorism? Of course, it is because it is, of course, a matter of giving priority mechanisms for the prevention and crime of the most serious, complex and dangerously organized crime. It is also a question of defining means of response in preventing and combating such crimes. This is, therefore, the most difficult and, most difficult of all, what this government is still not doing. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to those other legislative initiatives which would be time for the government to present, and to this end it was sensitized by the Socialist Party. I am referring, in particular, to the life update of the Civil Requirements Regime, which is a diploma that dates, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — take a good look! — 1974, before the date of entry into force of the current Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is an injured diploma, in several respects, of serious unconstitutionalities and which makes it inoperable to use it in particularly critical situations, therefore, so that the government also takes the necessary diligence here, and we also continue in expectation. The Government says in its National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, in particular with regard to the criminal information exchange platform, that, among other aspects, will contribute to clarifying the right to access that platform. For even today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, it was necessary to postpone the examination in the specialty of this diploma, since, so far, neither on the side of the Government nor on the side of members of the majority are known the concrete initiatives that make it possible to clarify the right to access their respective platform. on another plane, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the legislative issues, let me draw attention to the following: it is a matter which is contained in the resolution on combating terrorism which we consider to be of the greatest importance, public awareness, the mobilization of the opinion of all citizens to affirm what must be compatible, i.e. the values of freedom and the values of security. In particular, it is said in the resolution, and I quote it: « To develop the critical sense among young people, involving the sectors of education, training and youth animation, dynamizing a pedagogical orientation towards education for citizenship». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u48	We couldn't agree more. But it is precisely because we fully agree with this objective that we cannot fail to draw attention here to what is a flagrant contradiction: it was this government that, after all, in the curriculum programme, removed the obligation of the discipline of civic education. And, after all, it was this government that degraded the objectives of education for citizenship in the curriculum of our basic and secondary education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the time to announce to the House that today the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group enters the Bureau of a resolution to urge the Government to, as a matter of urgency, proceed, as recommended by the National Council of Education, to the reintegration of education discipline for citizenship, basic education and secondary education. After all, democratic values, the defence of human rights, the principles of tolerance and multiculturalism must be rooted in the culture of society, and for this to happen, must begin by being rooted in the culture of youth. Let us therefore not make mere proclamations. Following the proclamation statements, let us take the decisions they impose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u49	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards combating terrorism, there are two aspects we would like to highlight. Firstly, it is necessary to be coherent in order to fight terrorism consistently. [[That's our case!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u51	What we mean by this is that the States that have most allegedly legislated to combat terrorism have been the least coherent and, in some cases, have acted truly like Dr. Frankenstein, i.e. create creatures who later turned against the creator. We have many examples of this. We still remember that in the 1980s, Bin Laden was a freedom fighter and the terrorist was Nelson Mandela.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u52	It's mixing "yellows with bugs"!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u53	The second point that should be emphasized is that, in order to combat terrorism effectively, erratic drifts must be avoided. We had many erratic drifts: from 2001 to here we had and have Guantánamo ; we had the Patriot Act ; we had secret prisons in Europe ; we had secret CIA flights ; we had wars in Iraq, Libya, Syria ; and we had the creation of the Islamic State, which is inseparable from the consequences of these wars. So we have to be consistent and we must not be erratic. We must avoid erratic drifts. This prevention is done, and we are moving on to the legislation that is proposed to us. This legislation does not deserve us any objection, namely the consideration of the financing of terrorism as part of the criminal type of terrorism—well, indeed, it is a gap that exists and that it is important that it be closed. There are aspects that seem more problematic to us. And I shall refer briefly to those who find it more difficult to accept or who should deserve a more thorough discussion, in the specialty, as you can understand. I have already raised objections to Bill No 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a) concerning the problem of the Internet and travel, so I will not repeat what I said in the question I asked the Government. But I also pointed out that, with regard to the proposed amendment to the nationality law, what is proposed here is to introduce a discretionary criterion in a diploma which has only objective criteria. For the acquisition of nationality by naturalization, what is required today is that the citizen be older, who has been resident in Portugal for more than six years, provides a reasonable knowledge of the Portuguese language, which is measured through an examination that is carried out, and has not been convicted of crimes which have been referred to in the law of nationality. Here, however, what is to be introduced as a new basis for opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality is that it does not constitute a danger or a threat to national security or defence. That is to say, we are now introducing an aspect which is indeed a discretionary one, which does not exist until now in the law of nationality and which, from our point of view, should deserve a thorough discussion, at least as regards its densification. With regard to the law of foreigners, we also have a problem which, I would say, is relatively close to this, insofar as, at present, we refuse the visa to someone who is a serious threat to public order, public safety or public health, and what is proposed now is that the visa to whom it constitutes not only a threat but also a danger or a threat. We will have to find out exactly what this means: is the threat not a danger? Isn't danger a threat? What is the meaning of the use of both terms? And it is a danger or threat not only to public order, public security or public health but also to national defence. In other words, not only public security criteria, but also national defence, are being introduced here. I'd say we're a little bit trying to Americanize our legislation. It is that, in the Portuguese constitutional framework, there is a difference between the national defence functions, which are mainly carried out by the Armed Forces, and the internal security functions, which are in charge of the security forces. And there is a problem here, which is to know what role judicial authorities have to play, or not, in this matter, because military leaders are not subordinate, neither organic nor functional, to judicial authorities. Therefore, care must be taken in the way the merger is done between national security and defense. And this, from our point of view, is not sufficiently cautious, and it should be, because we are here trying to Americanize Portuguese legislation against what our constitutional framework is. These are some serious objections that we have to some of the proposals that are being made, but of course we will have all the availability and all the effort to discuss the matter. Moreover, within the framework of this legislative procedure, there are entities that have not yet acted, in particular the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. We already have the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but we do not yet have the opinions of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy or the Order of Lawyers. That is to say, there are entities that need to hear about this matter, and this must be done precisely to avoid, once again, the constancy created by a heinous terrorist attack that we all have to condemn, there are security derivatives and fundamental principles of our legal-constitutional order are called into question. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u54	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that the Greens accompany the Government in the need to find measures to combat terrorism. We therefore agree in principle with regard to the objectives, provided that this fight is done without putting into question the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens. This is our limit. On the proposals of the Government, they are based, on the one hand, on the adjustment of the legal order and on the compatibility of existing laws and, on the other, also on sensitive but deeper and more substantive proposals, which must be addressed more carefully and more carefully, because they may clash with other principles, such as the proposed amendments to the law of nationality or the law of immigration, with new restrictions, both in one case and in the other. in the law of immigration, it is intended, for example, to limit residence permits or extend the accessory penalty of expulsion, which obviously represents a backwardness, from the point of view of our civilization, and whose effectiveness is, to all titles, doubtful. As far as amendments to the law of nationality are concerned, we have doubts about the constitutionality of this proposal. In fact, the creation of negative requirements for the acquisition of nationality, whose foundations are based on open and abstract concepts, such as those contained in the bill, above all to be appreciated by an administrative entity and without any judicial intervention as a guarantee of the defence of fundamental rights, seems to us to be dubious constitutionality. It is that, when we talk about danger or threat to national security or defence, we are reporting ourselves to concepts that are not indeterminate but open and abstract. But we also have doubts about the Government's proposal to punish public incitement messages to the practice of terrorism through the computer system. The Government intends to punish not only those who spread the message of incitement but also those who access the message with the intention of being recruited for the practice of terrorist acts. We are therefore faced with an early case of criminal custody, which is, in fact, acceptable, since we are talking about criminal risk phenomena. So the problem isn't here. The problem is that there is no prediction of concrete and objective acts capable of allowing this anticipation. In other words, not wanting to formulate any value judgment on the proposal itself, and much less question the preventive or even repressive effectiveness of the punishment of these behaviors, what we think is that, in this case, the typical material action is not clearly and objectively defined, which naturally makes it difficult, not to say that it does not allow, to draw the boundary between what is a punishable behaviour and a non-punitable behaviour. The principle of minimal intervention is thus at issue and we are therefore faced with a solution of dubious constitutionality. Until the anticipation of criminal protection requires the definition of strict and objective criteria, otherwise we can call into question the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, thus opening up the possibility of even criminal prosecution to people who access these messages for other purposes and with other purposes than the practice of terrorist acts. That is, in the way it is constructed, the type of crime proposed, in our view, does not clearly delineate the criminal and non-criminal conduct. Therefore, as far as combating terrorism is concerned, everyone agrees, but not at all costs, because it is necessary to safeguard the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and to combat them within constitutional rules. In conclusion, I just want to say that the Greens are accompanying the Government in some of its proposals but not in others, because I believe they have now become clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u56	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion and in a brief manner, I would like to say, firstly, that we stress the political consensus that has been generated around this issue by the main political parties, even though Mr Jorge Lacão has made some effort to, by affirming the consensus, to talk about other matters and also to raise a few questions that he knows have been answered, even personally and in his eyes, by the Minister at the Commission's office. But we will not emphasise these aspects that would be less consensual, because the important thing is consensus. I also want to make it clear that, from our point of view, the fight against terrorism is always one, and it must be all done whatever the type of terrorism is, whether it is the attack on young people in Austria, by an extremist (also crazy, as will be all) on the right, or the attacks on Islamic jihadism. The fight against terrorism must be one. We are now paying attention to these new phenomena, to this new reality of jihadism and to this new form of recruitment, which then gives rise, in particular, to the « solitary wolves». We're not doing big historical retrospectives here, it's not worth it. We remember everything Mr.António Filipe said, but we also have memories of decades and decades of gulags, Soviet empire and friendly political positions for the most diverse organizations that at the time used terrorism as a method. We know who, always — and since it was against the West, as it is obvious — so it is not worth making this story. [[It's always worth it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u58	I would just say that it is very important to stress, as we have stressed, the credibility of the information services, it is very important to stress that when we introduce these limitations, we do not want to disregard the essentials, such as the freedom gained with the Schengen system and, therefore, to introduce these new supervisory mechanisms. However, there are some criticisms that I believe, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members on the left, a little forced, as you can see during the debate — and this is the last conclusion I wanted to draw — because it has already been explained, Mr President. Members, how you control the Internet, how you distinguish who goes to the Internet to try to prepare a terrorist attack by a journalist or an investigator. This has already been explained, as it has already been explained exactly how it distinguishes who is to consult a pedophilia site—and we beat ourselves - much so that it would also be a crime— exactly in the same terms, it is the same. So criticism is a little forced. They were asking the ladies. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, on the matter of travel and aircraft, how it is possible to control thousands of flights. I'm asking the ladies. Members: How is it possible to control corruption? Millions of cheques, millions of bank transfers... Of course it's not controlling one by one, it's detecting, it's having alert mechanisms, it's having verification mechanisms, it's drawing attention, it's checking out the paths where this risk can occur, as it is obvious, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. So these criticisms are a little forced. They obviously have an answer, they can be detailed, improved, even in the field of specialty, but they are not a problem in themselves. The fundamental problem is, in addition to how we all here, in enormous unanimity, regret a terrorist act, we also have the awareness that we have done everything we can before to prevent these acts from happening. That is the problem, and that is what we are dealing with today. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries in the Bureau and the times are almost exhausted, so we are finishing this debate. Thank you to the ladies. Members of the Government who participated in it. We are waiting for one minute between the debates so that you may. Members of the Government shall replace themselves in the plenary. [[Pause.]] We proceed with the next item on the agenda, which is the general discussion of Bill No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. I'm asking the ladies. Members in favour of taking your seats to begin the discussion of Bill No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). The Being is already present. Secretary for Transport and we already have some entries for interventions. To submit the bill, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, adopts a new legal regime applicable to the planning, organization, monitoring and development of the public passenger transport service by road, river, rail and other guided systems, including the public service obligation regime and its compensation. In this way, the RTA ( Car Transport Regulation ), dating from 1948, has been reformed which was long claimed, repealing legislation already exceeded and which is in force, and adapting the national regime to European standards, in particular Regulation 1370 / 2007. It is also intended to promote the improvement of the operation of the sector in accordance with the objectives set out in the Strategic Transport Plan, approved in 2011 and the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ( PETI3 + ), approved in 2014. With regard to a new regime enshrined in this diploma, it is important to highlight its fundamental aspects. On the one hand, the effective decentralization of the competence of the organisation of transport systems, which becomes the responsibility of the public entities closest to the population in whose geographical area the public service is developed. On the other hand, the democratization of access to public transport to all Portuguese, whether they are born and resident in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon or Porto or in any small village of the country—no Portuguese remains behind. This diploma is the Government's response to the mobility of the entire population, benefiting from a better public transport service or, in so many cases, the first time the public service reaches the country. This democratisation is ensured by the imposition of minimum levels of public service, by the creation of a legal framework for flexible transport, which complements the use of other means of transport, and also by the integration of school transport, enabling synergies so far unexplored, with public participation with own funds, through the extension of the Social Pass + rules throughout the country, with EUR 30 million of budgetary allocation already in 2015 and which will be extended to EUR 50 million in all the remaining years, when all municipalities have this organisation fully in force. In particular, I would like to highlight the following aspects of the new regime. With regard to transport authorities, there is an effective and complete decentralization of the previous competences of the State between municipalities and metropolitan areas or intermunicipal communities. Among the sources of revenue that are provided for the transport authorities, in addition to the 2015 State budget, which assumes the full cost of existing authorities throughout the budget year, it is expected that municipalities will create a contract management fee, as is the case in the overwhelming majority of regulated economic sectors, which affects up to 2 % of the fare revenues of the public passenger transport operator. In view of the specificity of the operators that make up the State business sector and the Tejo Southern Metro, a system is established whereby the transport authority maintains the State until the end of its contractual relations. however, the State assumes the obligation to conclude, within six months, agreements or inter-administrative contracts with the respective municipalities, municipal authorities or CIMs (inter-municipal communities) with a view to the full or partial delegation of their competences in these entities. Even as a result of the new institutional design, the tasks and competences currently involved with the metropolitan transport authorities, both in Lisbon and in Porto, are transferred to the respective metropolitan areas, which start to perform these tasks and can adapt their organics to the way they better understand to take advantage of existing services, until the creation of new entities. The conclusion of public service contracts, the definition of minimum levels, the regulation of flexible passenger transport, the so-called Portugal Porta a Porta, and the necessary link with school transport, without the rules being changed. The Government believes that this is an appropriate time for the approval of the new regime, in the definition of which it took into account the various contributions received not only in the context of public consultation but also the bilateral discussion it has made with a number of entities. I would like to stress the high role, from the point of view of discussion and contributions, of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto, which are largely integrated in this diploma. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I leave a sign of openness on our part, and I call on this House to ensure that the bill of law can be widely welcomed, because we believe that it is an innovative, structural diploma — I would say, revolutionary — on a subject that deserves reform that is capable of benefiting the whole population, contributing to greater social and territorial cohesion in the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[At the moment, Mr Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u61	Five were registered. Members to request clarification from the Secretary of State, so he will inform the Bureau whether he wishes to respond individually or as a whole. To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this proposal, as we will demonstrate later, is in fact evidence of the ideological matrix of the government and the consecration of the doctrine that you defend, not of the regulatory state but of the deregulation state, Mr Secretary of State. What you intend to do with this proposal is put the sector, from north to south of the country, of swamps, in a framework of uncertainty, indefinition and absolute precariousness, and precariousness not only for workers but also for users and for the companies themselves that are operating and have activity in the sector. In addition, it is important here to underline the instrumental nature of extraordinary and transitional schemes in the Government's strategy for the privatization of the sector. See the case of river transport, i.e. the privatization of transport in Transtejo and Soflusa, and in the railway, with the suburban lines that you leave to go on business as you move forward. In the meantime, the Secretary of State has now made a commitment to, within six months, assumes that after the law you wish to adopt comes into force, they will negotiate, taking on inter-administrative contracts with the local authority. But six months from now, are you still here? Are you sure, Secretary of State? Is the government's mandate up there? Maybe not! It is important to take into account, as regards the public consultation you mentioned, that we do not know the opinions, because the House did not receive them. The Assembly cannot accept reflections and contributions that you say there has been but no one has seen. And as such, we are faced with a regrettable situation for the transparency and clarity of the democratic process itself. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, to conclude, I would like to ask a very specific question about the role of the taxi sector in this regime. After all, what are we staying in? It is that this proposal aims to frame activities that are members of the transport service, such as that of the so-called flexible transport, in a diploma in which the taxi sector is simply excluded. It is excluded from the proposal, it is excluded from the scheme. We therefore want to know what role you are assigning to the taxi sector in this scheme, from which you end up excluding it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u63	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u64	Mr President, Secretary of State Sérgio Monteiro, this bill presented by the Government is in fact a last piece of a puzzle aimed at privatizing the transport sector. There is no doubt about this. All this diploma has a chance, it is stamped from above and says « business», which is exactly what the government wants to do. It is curious that he also arrives with an emergency because it is that piece of the puzzle that the government knows is missing to privatize STCP, Carris and the Lisbon Metro. So here is this legal regime. It is not new that we have this in this context, with this urgency. It is that the real objective that the Government has always had for transport was privatization, throwing to the private what should be the responsibility of the State. More: you are doing this now, in the counter-reliance aspect, you already see the time to end and you want, in a hurry, to put privatization on the table, at any cost, even creating exceptions in this legal regime. You can see what happens: there are a set of concessions that can be determined after 60 days, but there is one aspect that is for today. Which one? The STCP and the Port Metro. It is that on the day following the entry into force of this law, the Government wants to soon finish the puzzle of the privatization of public transport, particularly with that « stone in the shoe » which is to have STCP as a company still in the sphere of state. Following your initial intervention, I ask you a very direct question, because the Secretary of State has thrown us into the future. The normal question would be: by giving the government some kind of responsibility to metropolitan areas or municipalities, how does it pay? The answer that Mr Secretary of State brings to us is: «We will define, in the next six months, with the municipalities, how we will pay». Now, there are a number of commitments that have already been made. It is true that the government is not a good thing to speak to people, but it was this government that said: "Don't worry, we can privatise but never question the public service and the quality that exists today." We look at reality and we see it's not like that. We also realize that there is another problem around the corner and, as such, one of two choices will have to be made: the public party will pay more money and assume compensatory emmining, which the government said would not even think, that this would not happen, or, then, are somehow created responsibilities to users, through fees, as municipalities, or through price increases, which the government also said it did not want to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u65	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u66	So the question I put is very simple: how does the government, after privatizing almost everything, want to throw these responsibilities above the metropolitan areas and municipalities, what does the financial package mean? We will see this package coming up again with fees and fees for users, via « shoots into the cameras and then they have this relationship with the people to go there to get the money. » [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u67	Mr Fernando Jesus has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the bill we are discussing, although it means a contribution to the definition of the legal system of passenger transport, is much less than a proposal that we consider acceptable in order to deserve our favourable vote. We welcome the goodwill of the Government, already expressed here, so that, in committee, we can work together with this majority, on the proposed law under discussion with a view to some amendments. Mr Secretary of State, this is not the seat for this purpose — it is the committee — I would like to ask you a few questions. What is the mechanism that ensures that the revenues obtained by municipal fees — fees will be charged by municipalities — will be transferred to the metropolitan transport authorities, since Article 11 ( 1 ). the legal regime gives the municipality the possibility of other activities, including parking fees? That is, what is the guarantee that these fees do not remain in the authorities and pass to the authorities? in the legal regime presented to us it is stated that metropolitan areas are recognized as transport authorities. It is also mentioned that the organisation model of these authorities can be made by their respective bodies or by means of inter-municipalised services. Does this mean a parallel organization? It is that the following issue of the same article is discussed in the management boards of these services. This is a lack of clarity from the point of view of the law. I would like to ask another question: why does the new legal regime not clearly dedicate or characterize transport planning, given that the partnership agreement Portugal 2020 refers to the urgency and the need to develop integrated transport plans very quickly? In fact, we know that it is up to the cities to have access to Community funds, particularly the urban axis. Finally, I will ask one last question on the financing of the metropolitan authorities in 2015. Article 4 ( 1 ). that of the proposed law, which deals with the transitional financing regime, is said to ensure that the State ensures sufficient revenue to bear the remuneration charges of workers transiting from the current metropolitan transport areas to the metropolitan authorities of Lisbon and Porto. Question: are these revenue intended to bear solely the remuneration charges or also the operating costs? Today, about 50 % of the budget of the current authorities is for operating costs. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to answer these questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u69	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares once again said that this legal regime is intended not only for deregulation but also for the privatization of certain services. I recall that the institutional architecture of the sector was defined in 2011. We said what we were going to do and we're running that same plan. In other words, we are not doing what we have not done hastily, we are continuing to implement what we have undertaken since 2011, which was in fact in the programmes of the parties that now support the government. They are therefore consistent not only with these programmes, but also with the PET ( Strategic Transport Plan ) and PETI3 + ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ), which we have approved, and which we have already had the opportunity to debate, particularly in the Committee on Economics and Public Works. That is why there is no novelty and no hurry in particular. There is only quiet execution during a four-year term that is fully in operation and implementation of a plan that began to be designed and implemented in 2011. We are now talking about the detail of this diploma. In reply to Mr Fernando Jesus, I would like to say the following: it is in fact given to municipalities to be able to create a contractual management rate, but far from us being willing to prescribe any rules for municipalities to make any form or other with regard to the rental of money. We believe that the executive bodies of the municipalities are responsible entities and, therefore, the creation of a contract management rate will be channelled to the contractual management activity of a transport system. in the public debate that we made at the time with regard to this proposal, which will be brought down to its committee after this discussion in plenary, we had the opportunity to ask these municipalities and the inter-municipal communities to make the planning and organisation of their transport system, not only to compete with Portugal 2020, but, as soon as this diploma is approved and fully in force, to be able to carry out what is planned, in particular what seems to us to be the noblest and most important objective of the diploma, which is to take public transport to areas which have never seen the same organisation to date. As regards financing, the creation of a possible rate — we speak of a competence that will remain for municipalities to decide whether or not they want to create it, i.e. it is not for the government, it is for the municipalities to decide — it is one of several sources of funding listed in this diploma. It does not run out at this possible rate because it has a set of other sources of revenue, such as, for example, in the case of the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, the banking systems, the OTLIS and the TIP, which today are direct revenue generators, which finance the metropolitan authorities and which in future can finance the metropolitan areas. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u71	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, today we are talking about a bill that has to do with the legal regime of the public transport service, which, I believe, has numerous merits, including decentralization of competences, improving the conditions of public service exploitation, promoting universality, managing resources, improving territorial cohesion and promoting intermodality. This diploma introduces a new vision, a new framework for transport policy in Portugal, which I welcome, and also introduces an amendment to the concession award scheme, which was previously made through applications for authorisation and is now being made by the public tender scheme. A matter which I consider important in promoting competition has thus been introduced and what it means to disburse the costs of the State and of the taxpayers. Mr Secretary of State, if I may, I would like to focus my questions on matters relating to the transport authority. in the diploma, four levels are defined, in which one competes for the state, another for the municipalities, another for the intermunicipal communities and, finally, another for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. on the issue of the allocation of competences for this entity, there is, of course, a question which comes to my mind and, if I may, I will be sitting on the autonomous regions. Are the autonomous regions in this diploma equal to the state? And are autonomous regions considered to be transport authorities? It is that the diploma defines that municipal transport companies become the competence of municipalities, those that have an inter-urban character become the competence of inter-municipal communities and, in the case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, there are not even inter-municipal entities. How does this fit in with the presentation of this diploma? The entire organisation, operation, decision, investment and financing of transport has been developed at the regional level. In other words, the competences of the inter-municipal communities have not been defined. There are no inter-municipal communities in the autonomous regions, as I said, what happens? If autonomous regions are transport authorities, what means will they be allocated to their regional governments? Is the autonomy of the autonomous regions safeguarded in order to adapt to the legislation, to its specific characteristics, taking into account, of course, the political and administrative status of each of the regions? These are the issues I leave to Mr. Secretary of State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u73	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Inácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u74	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, before asking you a question, allow me to leave three notes, which I think are important, of the framework of this legal regime of the public passenger transport service. The first note has to do with the reformist dimension, which this Government continues to present, which is very important and which seems, even at the end of the legislature, continues to be very disturbing to the leftmost banks of this Parliament. But the government, because it is at the end of the legislature, does not cease to have that reformist dimension, which I would like to point out. With this, I mean that the reforms are not being taught, they are being implemented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u75	Today, we are debating another very important reform with a view to the sustainability of the transport sector, which, if it were to be said, had accumulated, in a not so far-reaching past, deficits in the face of deficits, which we are trying to solve. The second note relates to the decentralising dimension of this legal regime, which clarifys the role of each of the actors. to the state what it is of the state, to the municipalities what it is of the municipalities, to the intermunicipal communities what it is of the intermunicipal communities. For many years, the municipalities have claimed, and well, the management of transport in their territorial areas and, therefore, the diploma under discussion has responded to this claim. In addition, it should be stressed that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities gave this diploma, in the person of its president, which gave flattering words about it. The last note has to do with a third dimension of democratization of access to public transport. Mr. Secretary of State, I am from the district of Faro, I come from Algarve and often in large urban centers such as Lisbon and Porto, there is not exactly the notion of the problems that exist in public transport in other areas of the country, such as Algarve, Alentejo, Beiras or North. This diploma puts this issue on the agenda and our expectations are that it can help solve the problems of public transport in these regions, particularly in social terms, that is, there is the applicability of social support also in other regions of the country and not exclusively in the urban areas of Lisbon and Porto. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to speak to us about the pilot experience of the Portugal Porta-a-Porta and Transport to Requesto programmes and to explain how we are going to do the extrapolation to the remaining national territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u76	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u77	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, first of all I answer your questions. As regards autonomous regions, they have their own rules. In fact, we have allowed, depending on the dialogue we had with the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, to organize themselves as they think best. But, yes, the idea is that autonomous regions function as a State and therefore assume the functions that are provided for in the Continent for the State itself and that they then work according to the administrative organisation itself. As regards the Portugal Porta-a-Porta programme, referred to by Mr Bruno Inácio, the example we have of the Intermunicipal Community of the Tejo Medium is an extraordinary result, not only from the point of view of the quality of service to the population, of the very low cost compared to regular transport. And the feedback from the population on the quality and the increase in the well-being that the same population has had at such a low cost has left us very excited to consider that, in fact, we are faced with a diploma that sets out the possibility of having such a democratization of access to public transport in the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u78	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since we are talking about passenger transport, I think it is appropriate to know how we are in relation to the airline linking Trás-os-Montes to Lisbon, an absolutely fundamental line for the most isolated districts of the capital — Vila Real and Bragança — and that made the region more attractive in terms of investment and tourism. In fact, that was for 15 years, until this government went into action and shortly thereafter began the confusion and ended the line. First, the Government allowed the termination of the concession contract without opening its public tender to ensure the continuity of the connection. Then, it was obliged to make a direct award contract with the company and in November 2012 the government ended up interrupting the air connection and therefore interrupted the public transport service. Meanwhile, the false promises and the usual announcements of the government have taken place. at the end of 2012, Mr. Secretary of State for Transport said that the problem would be solved in 2013. I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State remembers, but it was said at a meeting of autarcas, then it was the Prime Minister who came to say and ensure that the problem would be solved in March 2013. Yes, yes, it passed March 2013, it passed March 2014, we are in March 2015 and the transmontanes continue waiting for the plane at the bus stop. Mr Secretary of State, if you are still going to use the word today—and you will certainly, because you have time—I would like to know how the process is going and when the government is going to reset the line. With regard to the proposal for a law which the Government is presenting to us today, the first note that the Greens want to underline is that the Government is presenting to us an extensive and enormous exposition of reasons, but without being able to refer to any technical, economic or social study which bases on the profound changes that the Government is now proposing. The government is moving towards the new regime without forecasting the main impacts that this new regime will cause in the sector, which will naturally lead to the degradation of the current model of transport with serious risks to the continuity of the public passenger transport service. And there is no shortage of examples: the Government repeals or replaces school transport and express transport without having previously defined, in its entirety, the new arrangements for each of these transports. Then the government, which throws so many rockets to talk about decentralization, extinguishes the Metropolitan Authorities of Transport of Lisbon and Porto and concentrates everything on a single national authority. Finally, in the preliminary draft of this new regime, the Government had given its entry into force 120 days after its publication ; nevertheless, because it was little, some associations of the sector have proposed that its entry into force take place only 240 days after its publication ; but the Government had just reduced the deadline to 60 days and, in view of this reduction, Mr. Secretary of State, we have taken this interesting situation: the new regime comes into force 60 days after its publication, but the regulation of the diploma will only take place 90 days after its publication. That is to say, we will have the new legal regime of the public passenger transport service in force without the same diploma being properly regulated. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if this is a joke, whether it's late or if it's to be, what I know is the idea that for this government, when it comes to business, it's worth everything, whatever it costs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u80	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This diploma insists on the business aspect that the government wants to do with transport. Do so, responding to a specific situation and so when the Secretary of State tells us that everything was planned, the reality proves that it was not. That is precisely why the invitation to tender for the granting of STCs did not go as the Government wanted and are currently waiting for the approval of this scheme. But do it also without any greater ambition than who privatizes and what is privatised. In addition, this is not denied in the explanatory statement, where it says that it is irrelevant to the Government if public passenger transport services are operated by public undertakings or private companies. We are watching the film well, we know where the government wants to come, and that is why we know exactly what this new legal regime is about. These amendments which the Government puts on the table continue to lack an essential answer: is there life beyond privatization, is there life beyond concessions? The government does not want there to be, what the government wants is to raise responsibilities for municipalities after it has made all this way to privatizations, concessions and knowing that it can happen, even after all the government promises, a set of responsibilities, of payments to the public. Now, the government tells us in this legal regime that those who pay are the local authorities, those who pay are the metropolitan areas. So, it's nothing but the government following the ideological plan of privatization...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u82	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u83	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, it is nothing less than the government to follow the ideological plan of privatization, to have on this ideological plane the recognition of its own failures to promises—after all, there are payments! — but clearly a deresponsibility of the State itself. And who pays? The authorities. Now the Government has nothing to do with this, and that is why the essential question has no answer from the Government. What is the financial package? Is there life beyond this discussion? Apparently there is no life there for this discussion and there is no answer to the last question. Let us hope that the Government will have that capacity until the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u84	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u85	I'm done now, Mr. President. from the Left Block, because we defend the quality public service and defend that it is at the service of people and not at the service of the business, we are clearly against this legal regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u86	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On this subject, I will see if I can say that film is what I saw in this legal regime. The film I saw is that this legal regime is within what is European law. Are the proposed amendments in line with what was in the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan? He is. So I will say from the outset that the Government is presenting here a document that is consistent with European legislation, consistent with those that were its proposals for the sector and therefore nothing new. It remains only and only the accusation that it is an ideological precept, but at last that is exactly the part of the film with which I feel more comfortable. Then it was said that, in this way, it is the end of local autonomy and that there is less interference from municipalities or metropolitan authorities, but it is not true. The competences are there, there is the forecast of greater involvement either in the metropolitan areas or in each of the municipalities; there is the concept of flexible transport, which is expensive for those who, like me, are elected by the interior; it obviously has costs, nobody hides that it has costs and therefore it is necessary to find a set of funding, that the honourable Members. State Secretaries said they could be through fees or other forms. There is no illusion, there is a service that needs to be provided and that if you want quality, that you want to be regular, that if you want to get as far as possible and that, of course, has costs. Do I make transparency in any way? I don't think so. Transparency is also guaranteed with well-defined competences, with the identification of the competent authorities, of regulators. It is also well defined what are minimum public transport services, both territorial coverage, which has to do with the connection of municipalities to the peripheries, either temporary coverage, or regularity, community or dimensioning, or information. We can, of course, work a little more and density these concepts a little better. It does not seem to me that this is irrelevant or that it is not dismissing it. Then, for those who doubted it, it also obliges public tenders, so it is expected. This new scheme provides, in principle, for public transport and passenger services to be awarded by public tender throughout the country, except, of course, in private cases of direct adjustment. Therefore, there is also this prediction. Therefore, it seems to me that this new regime comes to bring predictability, it comes to bring adaptability and adjust what must always be... I am very sorry, but for me the public service can never be disconnected from the supply/research/sustainability/system relationship, because the illusion that we cannot look at the supply and the search and try to guarantee funding in sufficient quantity and quality to continue ensuring public transport is, in itself, a threat to public transport. It is because they believe, in a situation where it is not possible to find funding for those who normally suffer, in the first instance, are the low-density territories, it is the least protected part of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u88	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u89	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the part of the less protected population ends by itself because it is the most affected, when it is precisely the one that most needs this type of transport. Therefore, ensuring that this population also has access to public transport, ensuring that mobility is a factor of competitiveness in the city, is a factor of mobility in the country is important. I believe that this is at least guaranteed here, although, in our specialty, we can densify these concepts a little bit and work on this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u90	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma could be more appropriately designated as the legal regime for the dismantling of privatization and the abandonment of the public service of passenger transport. Almost nothing escapes. The implications of this proposal concern current public transport undertakings, all private transport operators, local authorities, users and workers of current transport undertakings, current metropolitan transport authorities, etc. etc. Now, in the face of an operation of this magnitude, everything would make us believe that we would have a real public discussion, worthy of that name, but once again the opposite happened. And, in view of the previous pseudo-public discussion, that there is no report or specific information, the Government has made profound changes in relation to the above presented and new matters, which is an example of the proposal for the extinction of the Metropolitan Transport Authorities in Lisbon and Porto, here, yes, without public discussion and without even hearing the entities involved. The government wants to impose a candidly baptized path of « regulated competition », but which in fact means delivering the operation of the public transport service to the economic groups. It is a wrong option, which has already caused enormous damage to users, the State and workers. It is the choice of the large European multinationals who aim to manage all systems in Europe and thus collect large incomes from the peoples. The Government intends to transfer the authority to municipalities and to inter-municipal communities, as well as the responsibilities of financing, both public service compensation and investment expenditure, or expenditure with the transport authorities. First, it disrupts and leaves the services at the level of the IMT, asphyxiates the authorities, imposes unsustainable conditions for the operation of the structures of the state (central and local) and then shakes the responsibilities for the municipal chambers and inter-municipal communities and saves whoever can! It is the total spraying of the authority of the State and the Public Administration for the sector. It is the definition of hundreds of transport authorities throughout the country, in the overwhelming majority of cases without the technical basis and the means and the equality of conditions in relation to private interests and economic groups. The general rule is the transfer to the authorities of responsibility for financing, with the exception of railway infrastructure and state-wide support linked to some aspects of minimum services. But when approving this minimum level of service, the responsibility for guaranteeing is passed to the municipalities and then creates the framework of exceptions, resulting in all this, after all, in a little more than a simple frame of reference. The Government points out arrangements for the transfer of current State responsibilities to authorities as new transport authorities within six months, with regard to internal operators, i.e. to current public undertakings. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to say again that the government does not have six months of mandate. In view of this simple fact, it is concluded that, at the end of the term of office, and with a current management regime in view, they are attempting to impose an impracticable framework of indefinition of a law which comes into force first and then regulates itself, by revoking the way, completely, structuring legislation for the sector — the RTA (Auto Transport Regulation), the express service regime, the tariff. And whoever comes back closes the door! This proposal provisionally makes all current road concessions, pointing to their extinction until 31 December 2015, and may be extended until 31 December 2019 by authorisation and points to post-competition schemes. This means total precariousness in the sector, with two levels of instability: for workers and businesses as a whole. Moreover, this diploma contradicts what is in progress in port and what is planned for Lisbon. Will the Port contest be cancelled? Or does the law only apply after privatization to transfer to municipalities the power to pay the costs? It is for us to see in the Porto process, in which the book of charges creates obligations of more than EUR 1000 million to public companies Metro do Porto and STCP. If these move to the height of the municipalities, they will be the ones who will pay the bill. This proposal puts the cab sector in an even greater uncertainty. in theory, the government evolves from a vision of public transport divided into two categories (regular and occasional) for a new division into three, adding regular, occasional and flexible. But in practice, by excluding taxis from the scope of this scheme, it takes another step away from the taxi sector of the public transport system. We have put this issue in this debate, but the Secretary of State has not had a word to answer, which is, moreover, very revealing of his attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u92	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Members of the government, to worse end it is enough. The best thing the government can do, and still goes on in time, is to withdraw this proposal; the best thing the House can do is to reject it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this bill reminds us of another story of children: there was a beautiful apple, bright, red and appetizing, ready to satisfy the appetite of the incautious and sedentary princess, who, enchanted with such obvious attributes, did not resist them and plunged into a deep sleep for the curse of the evil witch, who got rid of her. Let's see if, in fact, this story doesn't repeat and if we don't have to wait for the charming prince or charmed to run with the evil witch and rescue the princess. We, in fact, want decentralization, but we want it to be serious and enforceable and we do not want poisoned present. We want to bring the scales of decision-making of the public service delivery scales closer together with, of course, all of this with the urgency of the entry into force of the European Regulation in 2019. In fact, we also consider it necessary and urgent to take the next step, in addition to what was provided for in Law No. 1 / 2009, which created the Metropolitan Transport Authorities of Lisbon and Porto, and in two aspects. The Socialist Party is the party of decentralization, but we want to go further: on the one hand, to achieve real decentralization in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and, on the other, to extend this decentralization throughout the national territory. But here begins the problem of the proposed law, because, in order to be a serious decentralization proposal, it must have the right time, it must be very clear about the technical and financial means that municipalities will be available to exercise the new powers and must take account of the real country, either the reality we have, or the reality where we want to walk within 60 or 90 days, or more than six months, or whatever. with regard to the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto, the first question is very simple: the Metropolitan Transport Authorities were created six years ago, this government went to empty them and ignored them for four years, annihilated this entity of sharing competence between the central and local administration, and had a majority. How, then, can we believe that the more centralist government that there is memory actually wants to decentralise and not get rid of a problem? A second question: the government is now in a hurry to privatize public transport companies at the latest. It started with Metro do Porto and STCP, where it is on the verge of concluding — in our perspective, in an illegal way — the sub-concession process and, a few days ago, it has already passed the resolution of the Council of Ministers for the Sub-concessions of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon to be completed in July this year, two months from the elections. However, in the proposed new scheme, it says that, for these public undertakings, the competent transport authority is the State, while the provision of the public service is not privatized and then the legal relationship is not completed. And he asks himself: but are the municipalities turning into what? In other contract managers? in the case of the Metropolitan Area of Porto they had a contest that they did not want, a notebook of charges that they did not approve and a result that they rejected, but then they will remain as prosecutors, to see if it is well fulfilled. And they will decentralize what, when the core of mobility in this area are these two companies? Oh, my God! The Government must explain here whether or not this is a serious case, Mr Secretary of State. Is it available to suspend these sub-concession processes or not? Is it available or not to assign this competence to the metropolitan areas? Is it available or not to let municipalities decide the destinations of their mobility in the next 10 years? And now the government will not usurp this competence of the metropolitan areas and then say that it wants to decentralise. With regard to the technical and financial means, Mr Secretary of State, powers shall be transferred without prejudice to the corresponding financial and personnel transfers. We already know that, in the metropolitan areas, until 2015, there is no problem, but then— stop! — it will have to be a self-sustainable system or, then, will live from already municipal revenue. And the cities of the interior, without any resources of any kind, how will they suddenly turn into transport authorities and also by miracle they will have a transport network whose obligation the government wants to deliver and impose at this time minimum services which it has never fulfilled? Is this government available or not to correct this very serious gap? To define a clear financial framework, either on the holding or subsequently on the investment? In no part of the world are self-sustainable systems, so only in a liberal delirium can they presume this. The aim, Mr Secretary of State, is indeed to know whether this bill is serious and, if it is serious, how and when the tenders under way will be suspended and clarified the financial and technical framework in which this transfer of powers takes place. Otherwise, it will be a poisoned present and what would be an apparent good news could be, after all, an ambush. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u96	Mr Paulo Cavaleiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u97	Go talk to a knight! That's what we had next to a prince! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You will not use the word no prince, just a Knight, but this is not a subject that would be discussed at the time of those stories.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u99	It also has to do with transport! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u100	Exactly, Mr. President! in this proposal for a law on the new legal regime of the public passenger transport service, I would like to highlight essentially three dimensions which, in the perspective of the PSD, this diploma not only fills as well as deepens and, above all, implements in a manner never achieved so far in the field of transport policy. I am referring, in particular, to a social dimension, a dimension of financial sustainability and a political dimension that this bill closes. However, I would like to stress another great merit of this proposal for a law — and this is also mentioned here by the Secretary of State — which is the systematization, organization and updating of the entire legal architecture of the transport sector. In fact, in legislative matters, we all know that the public transport sector not only lacks regulation in certain essential aspects, but also calls for an update in the light of the dynamics of the sector itself and the socio-economic issues of the populations, which pose new challenges and require new answers. Again, we're not just talking, we're doing. But speaking of the social dimension, clearly placing an inclusive approach, the new legal regime of public transport aims to democratise access to public transport by all Portuguese, whether from the coast, the interior, large urban or less populated regions. This principle of universal access to the public transport service and of meeting the needs of citizens is an essential aspect that makes a strong expression in this bill. If it is important to promote the quality of the public transport service, it is even more important to ensure that this service arrives and is available to all Portuguese and not just to some. We cannot accept that geographical, demographic or socio-economic differences exclude citizens from a public transport service. This new regime is taking an important step towards strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, and I think we all agree on this. It is necessary here to highlight the Portugal Porta-a-Porta program and the Social Passe +, from now on extended to the whole country. We know that this legal regime of the public passenger transport service provides a legal framework for the operation of the public flexible passenger transport service. Several examples have already been mentioned here in the country, in which they were tested as cases of success and which, especially in low population density territories, the passenger transport service has come to be a success. This service will now be extended to the whole country with the support of the State and will be assigned in accordance with the rules also in force in the Social Pass +, a true social pass. We will now have this offer not only in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon ; it will extend to the whole country and the State budget for this year already provides EUR 30 million for this purpose. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only point out that, if we are making this strengthening in the social area today, so important for the most fragile populations, this is only possible, because in the last three years, the Government has managed to produce savings in the transport sector of more than 600 million euros — reducing, for example, and I think that we all agree with this, board of directors and heads — and allocated these savings as very important factors of social cohesion. It is also important to highlight the issue of financial sustainability, because this is a very important issue. Let us remember what the PET ( Strategic Transport Plan ) had already said in October 2011 : « Over the last 10 years, the indebtedness levels of enterprises in the state business sector in the field of land public transport and rail infrastructure tripled in 2010 to EUR 16 700 million ». And he said more: if no reforms were introduced by 2015 — the year we met — we would reach EUR 23 billion. We know that this has not been fulfilled, it has not happened, and we know that the way in which the government has managed this financial problem has enabled us to have a differentiating policy and that it can lead all Portuguese people to what, at this time, was only for some. But it is also important to highlight the political scope of this bill and the issue of decentralization, because it is not only important to talk about decentralization, it is necessary to have the courage to carry out this decentralization. With this proposal, there is a legal framework that allows municipalities, inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas to effectively exercise their competence in the organization of public transport systems within their area of influence. We therefore understand, and it is positive for us, the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which considered the draft law of the public passenger transport regime a positive step towards decentralization. I will not now use the statements of the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, but he clearly states that there has been cooperation, since the first hour, by this entity. But we can talk about Antonio Costa's statements on this matter to the public newspaper, in which he said that the decentralisation that is going to take place corresponds to an old demand for municipalities, so he cannot fail to be seen as « something frankly positive». And it is also true that, on this subject, Antonio Costa, even before he made that statement in which he admitted that the country was effectively better today, he also recognized, at the time when he debated this subject, more goodwill on the Coelho Pass Government than on the Government of Socrates. In view of what the news said at the time, one can read: « I must recognize that I have found more good will of the current government than of the two previous socialist governments». It was Antonio Costa who said so yesterday in a debate in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u101	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u102	Finally, Mr President, saying only that António Costa also said that « without great results, at least from the point of view of the principles, there is greater openness and preparations to take an important step, which is the transfer of the so-called metropolitan authorities to the metropolitan areas». These are the views of the leader of the Socialist Party, which I think are important for the debate we are having on this subject. It is now Parliament's task to make a positive contribution in that it is an essential reform in a public service that moves daily with the lives of millions of Portuguese people. I hope we all know how to do our part. I am sure that the country, as we have seen today in this debate, will not stop reforming. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u103	The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a debate with 'Princess' and 'horsemen' I, in fact, can no longer add anything to the nobleness of these epithetes and,... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... therefore, let me refer to the subjects of the diploma. Firstly, the institutional architecture is clarified with this diploma: who are the transport authorities, at each level, where they work and what their responsibilities and rights are.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u105	Keep the title! They're like the princesses!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u106	Secondly, we have a decentralization of powers. It is not a mixed decentralization or a joint participation, it is a full decentralization. And, even though they insist on saying only half the reality, it is not the reality only because they "paint" it that way. The metropolitan areas of transport are extinct because their competences are transferred to the respective metropolitan area. In other words, an entity which today was mostly controlled by the State becomes exclusively controlled by the municipalities, this principle, which was, in fact, discussed and agreed with either the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, or the Metropolitan Area of Porto. There is no doubt here about that! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u107	Thirdly, I mean funding. Again, we make it clear in several points of Article 11. the, which are the sources of financing — tariffs, other added value arising from the most complete assembly of a transport system and also the possibility that, if the respective municipalities or transport authorities wish to create a rate affecting operators and not people, as exists in the energy sector, as in telecommunications, in the water sector, in all sectors — are those who benefit from the regulation they pay for it! It's the principle that you're all based on. That's when, I think, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, without prejudice to the improvements that may exist, this is a structural, reformist diploma, a step forward in the transfer of competences and which must be supported by this House. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u109	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u110	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u111	For an intervention, Mr President. We still have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u112	Mr President, see if you can have sufficient synthesis power to fit in 15 seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u113	I'll try, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State is trying to escape one of the most critical, most fragile points in this bill, but I would like to confront it with this. in the debate on the contest of Metro do Porto and STCP, the PS and the opposition denounced the trickery of this contest. And, in our view, this bill proves that this contest was a joke. It was and it's bullshit! The government is doing the opposite. Instead of approving this legal regime, which should have already been done in 2013, for example, and then transferring to the municipalities and metropolitan areas the utility of transport, so that they could contract sub-concession, the government does the opposite: it fulfils its ideological agenda, sub-concession to the private, and then, only at the end of these sub-concessions, that is, at the end of 10 years, is that the transport authority passes to the metropolitan areas and to the municipalities. That proves that the government is doing this on the contrary. And the reason why the Government has not yet granted the sub-concession of the STCP is because first it needs to approve this legal regime. Does the Secretary of State recognise, or does he not, that this legal regime should have been approved about two years ago? Does the Secretary of State finally recognise that the STCP's competition is a great trick that does not prestigious the government or the country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u114	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say very quickly that there is indeed something I recognize. It is that this regime should have been approved for a long time, because the country needs a transport regime that democratises access to transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u116	Then you have to bring another one! You must have been wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u117	I understand that, strategically, they just want to focus the discussion in Lisbon and Porto. But that is not our matrix, neither ideological nor social and territorial support! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We want to democratize access to the whole country! [[PS protests.]] And on the Port Metro and STCP, Member of Parliament, don't worry: EUR 98 million savings in the Port Metro and EUR 58 million savings in the STCP over the next 10 years are the reason why we can extend and democratise access to transport and get all Portuguese to enjoy a right they should have decades ago... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u118	... and that now, by action of this government and this majority, they will have. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-04.u119	Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: The first point will be filled with political statements. The second point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates in road infrastructure ( PS ), 796 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of road infrastructure where it is due to payment of toll rates ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 794 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the collection of tolls until they are eliminated in defence of the rights of users of motorways ( PCP ), 799 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of toll rates ( BE ), 800 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Withdraws jurisdiction to the finance service for the establishment and instruction of procedures for counter-ordination for non-payment of toll rates ( eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June 2006 approving the sanction scheme for infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates is due) ( BE) and 802 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents situations of abusive application of fines and other costs in cases of non-payment of tolls ( The Greens ). in the third and final point, the assessment of draft resolution No 1267 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by the clearance of the final beneficiaries of the financial transactions which have read the BES and the Portuguese State ( CFP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 1 minute.]]
