ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u1	Mrs. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having no record to be read, we shall immediately turn to the agenda which, as you know, consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance. This debate is under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, meaning that the debate opens with an intervention by Mr Prime Minister, following the following questions: PS, PCP, BE, The Greens, CDS-PP and PSD. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe it is appropriate at this time to take a closer look at the recently disclosed data relating to the budgetary implementation in public accounts of 2014. Of course, we will only have the final numbers in national accounts on the implementation of the budget and the impact of the budget deficit until mid-March, but no one will deny that the data that were just known a week ago showed that the government has been careful and correct in the projections that it has been making. Not only for the objectives of the budgetary policy that have been established for 2014, but also because good execution strengthens the data for 2015, the projection we make for the current year. I would like to point out, in particular, that in the composition of the effort that was made to achieve the goal of the Budget, we found that the reduction of expenditure contributed with two-thirds of the effort achieved, while the revenue, and the prosecutor also contributed with one-third of the consolidation effort, which, as you know, consisted of a balance presented since 2011 — and not only for Portugal, but, in the case of our country, from 2011 onwards — as virtuous in the consolidation process. It is also known that the Government has not always achieved this division and this effort in every year, it has had to correct several times the measures it has taken and that they corresponded to this objective of having such a composition: two thirds with responsibility for reducing expenditure and one third for increasing revenue. This is not what happened in 2013, as you remember, but it was what happened in 2014, which means that when we compare the 2010 result with what we are expected to achieve in 2014 — and 2014 was one of the years that this balance has been taken away from this initial objective – in a general way, we have a higher responsibility for the budget than the revenue. however, it does not cease to be very curious that, when attending the public debate, the opposite concludes. The highlight that is given to the revenue is so obvious and heavy that it comes to the feeling that, in fact, what happened in 2014 is that the tax revenue was the only or the most responsible for us achieving the objective of the deficit. It is a false perception and it is unfortunate that the correction is not made in media terms. I hope that today's debate here in Parliament can contribute to this correction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u3	It was not the revenue that allowed us to achieve most of the deficit, it was the control over the expenditure that allowed us to achieve the result. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This evidence helps to strengthen the forecasts we make for 2015. It is well known that when we presented the 2015 State Budget proposal, both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund had doubts about our capacity to fall short of the 3% target in 2015. I believe that the results that we presented in 2014 reinforce our conviction that Portugal will be able to remain below the target of 3% this year and, to this extent, to have the premium and merit resulting from a given strategy, to financialize the country's public accounts and thus allow us to focus our concern, above all, on growth and employment policies, rather than on containment policies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u4	I would just like to end this point by saying that the fact that there are budgetary constraints does not mean that there is no room, as I said, for our future trajectory to focus more on economic growth than on consolidation. But, I insist, no country in the euro area, no country in the world wishing to balance growth and responsibility in the future will ever be able to alleviate its concerns with public accounts and with budgetary balance. This is what we will continue to do as austerity gains less relevance and our ability to grow becomes more notorious. The second important aspect I think concerns the data released this week by the National Institute of Unemployment Statistics. During some debates here in Parliament, I confessed to the concern that the government was following the evolution of the data presented by the National Institute of Statistics, recognizing them always reliable. There is nothing infallible in life, but our degree of confidence in official data both from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, or the National Institute of Statistics, is great. hence the concern we have shown in seeking to assess whether the data relating to the last quarter would show a trend inversion, initiated in January 2013, in relation to unemployment—not to employment, which continues to increase— or whether it would be some other conjunctural phenomenon which, without affecting the medium-term trend, would, however, require corrections in economic policy. Yesterday, the National Institute of Statistics told us that in the last three months we had a false discussion. After all, the National Institute of Statistics corrected its forecasts — statistics, of course — and showed that there was an adjustment on its own half-percent rate. It is not a small difference, it is a remarkable difference and it shows, in the background, that to date, by taking out an isolated monthly data, fortunately there was no reversal of trend and that, therefore, we continue to maintain a downward trajectory of unemployment and to show an increase in employment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In any case, as before, it shows concern about young unemployment which, in this case, has shown a slight deterioration, but still a worsening and therefore shows that economic policy must continue to place both long-term unemployment and youth unemployment issues at its centre. The third point I would like to mention refers to the data that have been disclosed by the Banco de Portugal and also by the National Institute of Statistics on Portuguese Exports, whose numbers are not yet closed until the end of the year, until December, but in the 11 months of 2014, which are known, Portuguese exports have increased almost 1, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u6	If we discount what happens at the level of a very precise category of goods in the energy area, in fuels, then we conclude that Portuguese exports have increased by more than 4 %; in any case, above the growth rate of the economy. This means that exports continue to be driven by the growth of the economy and that even when we note the increase in domestic demand, we cannot fail to note, very favourably, that the investment share is also growing above the demand for imported goods and above the average rate of growth of the economy, which is an indication that we continue to transform the structural profile of the Portuguese economy, contrary to what they say accelerated readings that have been made, as happened, even last year, for example, with the International Monetary Fund, from our point of view. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that we can not only look at these data with some moderate optimism, as we can also see that the government has not lost time in its reformist momentum. in the area of green taxation and IRS, but not only, we have done an important reform that today allows the growth model to be recognized and externally considered as a friend of the environment and sustainability...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u7	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u8	... and that we are therefore using this good margin of taxation policy to support relief in the IRS home for larger families in their household, as we are also fighting for important policies that promote decentralization and that, at the level of the State, as yesterday there was an opportunity to approve in the Council of Ministers, reform licensing processes, both industrial and environmental, creating a single procedure for environmental licensing. This is a very relevant state reform which I wanted to stress here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u9	I shall finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that the path we have come to take and that we are continuing in 2015 combines responsibility with ambition. An ambition for Portugal to grow, meet its goals and, to this extent, give the Portuguese the sense of change that they, since 2011, expected it to take place. That is the change we are making. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u10	I give the floor for the PS to Mr. Ferro Rodrigues to ask questions. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u11	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, tells us here that it presents itself with moderate optimism. of his words, it seemed to me to see a miscontent euphoria which is absolutely disproposed. You continue with the same unrealism and on what led to the reduction of the deficit, which will have been on the side of the expenditure — one of the three issues brought here — forgets that the year 2014 was the year of the highest tax overdose in the lives of all Portuguese people,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u12	... forget that, on the side of the expenditure, the cuts were made much in public investment and much in absolutely essential benefits for the poorest of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u14	... from unemployment allowance, social supplement for the elderly, to minimum income. That is why you bring here a story, from the budgetary point of view, which is not a story for children, is indeed one of the most absurd stories for children, is a sort of history of carochinha, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there is something absolutely extraordinary about your intervention. during the period when more changes were made at European Union level, when different conditions were created, when the wind began to blow completely contrary to the dominant winds of a few years ago to this part, you make no reference to what happened in the European Union in recent weeks, which is extraordinary and shows how well you feel about a certain European Union and feel in difficulties when it begins to change. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u15	The non-recognition and non-exploitation of the new working conditions of the European Union is something serious. During this period, progress has been made in the Juncker plan ; in this period, the issue of flexibility relating to public investment, which, unfortunately, you and your Government, in the European Council, contrary to what Portuguese and European socialists have done, did not seek to be, as would be normal, acceptable to countries with the greatest difficulties, as is the case in Portuguese, its obligation to have had an attitude exactly contrary to what it had, which was to accept passively a logic which is not that of Portuguese interest. On the other hand, it also refers to the measures of the European Central Bank, the quantitative simplification and the possibility of much more liquidity and financing for the economies, including Portuguese. In fact, there is a Canadian rating agency that maintained the Portuguese rating at levels above the garbage and, curiously, this rating comes from 2010. Mr Prime Minister did not speak of any of this, nor did he speak of the consequences of the Greek elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u16	Why would I have to talk about the Greek elections? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u17	Prime Minister, it is regrettable that a prime minister in a country like Portugal, which depends heavily on what is happening in Europe and has to influence Europe, does not have a single word about the changes so important to Portugal that they are living in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u18	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u19	Madam President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, you have seen euphoria in my words, but let me tell you that I have not seen euphoria in my words and I have no euphoria. But I keep what I said. I have a moderate optimism in what has been our performance and I look forward to 2015 as a year in which the prospects for growth in the Portuguese economy, for greater employment recovery — for the greatest fall in unemployment, and for stability that will enable us to continue this path of economic recovery. I have no reason to transmit any kind of pessimism to the Portuguese population in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u20	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u21	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues said that 2014 was a year of tax overdose. I must tell you that 2014 was not a year of fiscal aggravation. It wasn't, sir. The State budget in 2014 did not bring an increase in tax rates; on the contrary it brought a deterioration of the IRC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u22	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u23	... for companies, therefore, and brings, in 2015, a breakdown on families. But I want to tell you, Mr President, that there is no history of carochinha here. The honourable Member has not answered what I said. The 2014 budget implementation shows that two-thirds of the deficit reduction were guaranteed by reducing expenditure and one-third by increasing revenue rather than taxes. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Deputies, that's it! That's right! When the honourable Member shows otherwise, we will have another discussion, but the discussion cannot go beyond that reality. I believe that the Socialist Party has always had a certain difficulty, or at least has shown a certain difficulty in compatibility its speech with reality and, when reality does not correspond to its speech, the Socialist Party will turn it from the bird, making it clear that reality is not what it is. But reality is what it is! You may think it would be more convenient, rhetorically, to say that we had only met because we had increased taxes. But not only did we not raise taxes as was the reduction in the expenditure that guaranteed the result. The honourable Member regrets that I have not made comments on the Greek elections, on the quantitative ease, on the Juncker plan, on the flexibility... Mr Member, my function here is not to make comments, but I must say that I do not understand why it is regrettable that the Prime Minister in the Portuguese Parliament would want to talk about the situation in Portugal. I think that's perfectly normal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] however, it is very symptomatic that some parties take advantage of many external events to, in particular in this Chamber, not talk about Portugal, what they want, and what they propose in particular for our own country and who speak more about Europe, than Portugal. We are talking about Portugal and we are talking about Europe and, moreover, we have already had an opportunity in this debate to talk about the Juncker plan and about flexibility. Let me remind you, Mr President, that so far, what has happened is that the Socialist Party has come to make interpretations of these results which have been denied by itself. For example, with regard to the quantitative ease, they are denied by the President of the European Central Bank, when he clearly states that the objective of the programme he announced is not to produce any package for budgetary expansions, rather, and that the programme was designed very strictly not to correspond to the financing of sovereigns. in the case of flexibility, when it was insisted that flexibility would hit everybody's door, and from Portugal, and that we could have taken advantage of these years if this flexibility had existed, after all, it does not seem that way. It was the President of the European Commission himself who clarified this very clearly. But there's more. You wanted to accuse me here in this debate of me in the European Council of having complied with this flexibility, with this decision, and of not having fought so that it could be extended to countries with excessive deficits like Portugal. I must say that this statement is completely dislocated. First of all, because, as you know, this flexibility has been presented by the European Commission, as it is responsible for it. It is the European Commission that has the opportunity to say that flexibility is that it can find in its interpretation of the rules, because it applies them. But, Mr President, there was not even any European Council to deal with this matter, nor does the European Council have to take a decision on this matter. But I am sure that at the informal meeting of the European Council, which will take place now in February, this will be the subject of our reflection. However, I would like to stress once again a very important point on the issue of flexibility. There is, within the rules that exist, more flexibility for those who do, for those who do not have excessive deficits. This may not make sense for Mr, but it makes great sense for me. That is why it is a very important stimulus for us to have balanced budgetary policies. In other words, it makes every sense that those with greater imbalances have to make a greater effort to correct and that those with no such pronounced imbalances have more room for manoeuvre. I believe that this makes all the sense in any part of the world, but when we hear the Socialist Party we are not sure that this is their perspective. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, I would like to say to the honourable Member that, with regard to the Greek elections, I had the opportunity to say what I thought was important. It is important to recognize that Greece is not in 2015 under the same conditions as it was in 2010 and the progress that has been made in Greece these almost five years is due to a tremendous effort that was also made by the Greeks. Throughout this process, the European Union sought to help Greece, and Portugal was also one of the countries that contributed to it. However, Greece, like Ireland and Portugal, was not able to close its adjustment programme. It goes into the second programme which has not yet been able to close and we do not know if it will not need a third programme. however, what we know is that it is important for everyone in the European Union that Greece can abide by its commitments, that it can comply with European rules, like everyone else, and that it can succeed in its policies. Honestly, that is what I want Greece, whatever government the Greeks choose. And he has chosen a government, throughout this period, led by the socialists, who almost disappeared from the Greek electoral map by the most conservative force of New Democracy, and now by a Greek extreme left party, equivalent to our Left Block, which is the Syriza. Mr President, we respect the sovereign decisions of all States and remember that all States deserve respect in this regard. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u24	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u25	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, of course I was referring to the meeting at which your Minister for Finance participated at the Eurogroup level and where the issues of flexibility were discussed and the regrettable inaction to achieve — which makes sense — that countries that need to invest, countries that have more serious problems than others, have conditions for access to this flexibility even more than others, contrary to what you say. Therefore, your view of Europe and Portugal is exactly the opposite of ours. You think that a European problem is a European problem and a Portuguese problem is a Portuguese problem; for us, European problems are national problems and Portuguese problems are European problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about the realism of your speech, Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister pointed out as a great achievement the fact that the unemployed in Portugal are 689 600 in the last quarter of 2014, but he forgot to say that discouraged people, people who have stopped being considered unemployed because they simply have no hope of getting a job is more than 302 300 people, which means that we have almost 1 million unemployed Portuguese. The Prime Minister has forgotten that young unemployment continues to increase, despite emigration in these three and a half years, by more than 400 000 Portuguese. of these questions you do not speak and are very serious issues that have a terrible impact on the Portuguese social fabric and that correspond to a lack of hope for many. So what is happening with all this and with European amendments is that there is a sudden failure of austerity policies and that has led to these new guidelines. In fact, the European Central Bank said, contrary to what Mr Prime Minister said, that he was not alone going there, only with monetary measures he did not go there and that it was necessary to have budgetary policies and more growth aid. And that you didn't want to read, you didn't read or pretend you didn't read. Even yesterday, his predecessor spoke in Greek results and said it was the policy of fanatical orthodoxy, without social consideration, that had been defeated. She was defeated in Greece, Mr. Prime Minister, and will be defeated everywhere this policy of fanatical orthodoxy and without social consideration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister does not think that the European Union has embarked on a path, although slow and late, but what is calling into question this model of punitive and pseudo-expansionist austerity which you so dearly support? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u26	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u27	Madam President, I would like to tell the honourable Member very quickly that we are clear. The honourable Member believes that those who have the most debt should be indebted more, that those who have the most imbalances should have more flexibility and that those who need more money, being debtor, should have more money. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Moreover, we know that this is the moral lesson of socialist politics, but we are quite clear about the effects and consequences of this way of thinking. Secondly, I would like to say that there has been no sudden failure of austerity policies. [[Don't...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u28	The austerity policies, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, were necessary when there was budgetary irresponsibility in the countries. And they produced in Portugal and Ireland as well as Spain, which, however, did not have a programme of assistance, the possibility of closing the assistance programme and of having our economy growing. How do you understand that we have growth in the economy, economic recovery, end the financing plan because we have access to market financing and say that this is a failure? Oh, my God! What would be a success for Mr Ferro Rodrigues : ask for another rescue? Oh, my God! Is that the sign of success? Oh, my God! Thirdly, Mr Draghi says that only monetary policy is not enough. It's true. And what's not enough for, Mr. Deputies? — perhaps the honourable Member should have added. For the growth of the economy. Why, sir? Because the ECB's objective, when it intervenes with monetary policy, is not to cause economic growth, is to keep inflation slightly below 2 %. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] That is the ECB's objective, and that is not what the honourable Member says. The Socialist Party for a long time has intended the opposite, i.e. that the ECB should change its mandate, that it could directly finance the sovereigns and the State, that it would be a final provider to the participating States of the euro. This has been denied, and well, by the President of the ECB himself, because he is not in his mandate, nor should he be in his statutes. That's not our perspective. But that does not prevent the ECB from doing what it has to do for financial stability and for the defence of the euro and, contrary to what you may think, I have always said that. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u29	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u30	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let us then talk about public debt. Mr. Prime Minister accuses us of wanting a model in which public debt grows very much. Well, sir. Prime Minister, when his government began its duties, public debt represented 109, 3 % of GDP and now represents 131, 3 % of GDP. It was a great victory for your government in public debt! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to say the following: if the measures taken by the European Central Bank now had been taken in due course in 2010 the consequences on the interest rates to which Portugal was subject in the secondary and primary markets would have been completely different. And it would have been completely different what happened in these three and a half years. This did not happen, not only because the European Central Bank had within it the German opposition, which, although it continued, was defeated and overcome, but also because at the European Council countries had an obligation to exert pressure, to fight for a Europe that was friendly to growth, investment and employment, and in many cases were « more papist than the Pope », more Finnish than Finland, more German than Germany. That's your case! This is the case with the Portuguese Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, to conclude, I refer to the Greek question. The Greek question is European and Portuguese, given that around the topic of Greece power-CL - there will be extreme positions. We do not agree with some populist positions of the new Greek Government,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u31	... but we find it far more dangerous than the temptation of European hawks to want Greece to make a sort of vaccine against any change in the European Union and any democratic and national will. That is why I ask you very specifically, regretting that you do not have time to answer: what does the Portuguese Government think to do about this? Support the orthodox hawks, who want Greece's bankruptcy, with unpredictable consequences on Greek democracy or respect... [[PSD protests.]] You're all very nervous! When they are in opposition they will have the opportunity to have these demonstrations, and it will not take long! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said, will the Government support the orthodox hawks who want Greece to fail, with unpredictable consequences on Greek democracy, or will respect Greece's results and aspirations and contribute to a serious commitment around Greece, Europe and the euro? What does the Portuguese Government think about the European debt conference, which has already been supported by the finance minister of that country that Mr. Prime Minister speaks of as much as being a great example of the countries under assistance, i.e. Ireland? That's what I'd like to know. Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but, as these debates on this side normally are a kind of implausible interpellation of the answer to the Socialist Party by all sides on the right and Mr Prime Minister will certainly have time to answer these questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u32	Mr Prime Minister does not really have time to answer, so you have the floor by the PCP, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, a serious charge that the CFP continues to make to this government is not to ensure the defence of the national interest. There are several examples of issues in which the Government does not defend such interests, from the way it has obediently executed all the troika's taxes to the way it has submitted itself to all kinds of conditions that the large transnational economic and financial groups and the most powerful countries in Europe have been doing. The way in which he reacted to the elections in Greece is an example that confirms that the government is more concerned about "getting well in photography" than about defending the country's interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u35	Does the Prime Minister insist on classifying a situation in which the proposed renegotiation of debt can gain strength? Does the Prime Minister insist on classifying from children the proposed renegotiation of the debt, which can release Portugal from the garrote to which the country is subject today, which can generate financial resources that we need as 'bread for the mouth' for an economic policy that makes Portugal produce, which creates jobs, which improves living conditions? Children's account, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Explain your conception there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u36	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u37	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is true that in almost every debate you make the same accusation. I am returning this charge, saying that the Portuguese Government's behaviour has been to defend the interests of Portuguese and Portugal and that the ideas that have been propagated by various parties from the left Portuguese parliament, in particular when they defend the renegotiation of debt and, as they have done in the past, the renegotiation of the Memorandum, do not defend or have defended the national interest. This is my observation and is exactly symmetrical of yours. In the case of Greece, he felt that a renegotiation of the debt was necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u38	The Greeks know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u39	It was Mr. Deputy who brought the case to the breakfast, it wasn't me. You don't mind if I answer now, do you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u40	But is it a children's story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u41	The honourable Member brought this case and, let me tell you, Greece has renegotiated its debt. It was the only country in Europe that did so, it was the only country in Europe that renegotiated its debt, that had a debt hiercute and has conditions for payment of interest, interest deficiency, maturity deadline for payment of loans that no other European country has. This has been done at the expense of European solidarity. I was still not Prime Minister—I was elected Prime Minister in June 2011, in a situation where Portugal was already under foreign assistance—before being under external assistance, Portugal, between 2010 and 2011, made bilateral loans to Greece worth almost EUR 1100 million. And today, Greece, after having restructured its debt, making a haircut of its debt to private funds, can only have the prospect of not paying those who lent it to Portuguese, French, Spanish, European peoples.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u42	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u43	That is the point, Mr President. I would like you to clarify this point. Mr President, I am telling you that I do not agree that this is an advantage for Portugal. It has not been in the past, it is not today and it will not be in the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u44	I hope that Greece can solve its problems. It is important for the Greeks, it is important for the European Union and also for Portugal. So we have helped Greece find its way of success both in terms of economic growth and in terms of success. We know it's not easy. But we also know that the respect we owe the Greek Government is the respect the Greek Government owes to the governments of other countries. There are no countries of first, second and third. There are no first, second and third peoples. [[PCP protests.]] Within the European Union all deserve respect: the Portuguese who elected this government, the Greeks who elected the current government, and out there. We must all be respected! But that doesn't mean we all agree. The options that each one of them follows should be clarified and I hope that they will be clarified in the case of Greece. I'm not going to comment on them. I'm just going to say what I agree with and what I don't agree with. With the restructuring of the debt, Mr. Member, I do not agree! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u45	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, this thing that they are all equal in the European Union... Recognize that there are some more equal than others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u48	in his speech, he stated that, after all, the Portuguese Prime Minister is more on the side of Mrs Merkel than on the side of national interests. In addition, let me add and prove this reality: the case of TAP, a fundamental instrument, a lever that this country needs for its growth and economic development, and its privatization Mr. Prime Minister, it is taking into account the point of view of the national interest referring to the statement by Mr. Secretary of State for Transport when he states that it is up to the European Union to decide whether EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) and CP Cargo are to privatize or to close, to liquidate. This is the patriotic glow of this government, Mr. Prime Minister! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u50	Is it to deliver our collective future to strategic companies for this development that is so much talked about and to say that it is up to the European Union? Oh, my God! How's the national interest, Prime Minister? How the national interest works! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u51	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u52	Mr President, Mr President, you have added very little to what you have already said and so I have very little to add. I will only say this: we live within the European Union and this brings advantages and disadvantages. It does not only bring advantages, it also has its drawbacks. My vision is that Portugal has been a country that clearly has won with the European project. Despite all the vicissitudes, Portugal is part of the European Union project and this project is strategically important for Portugal: sometimes the benefits are more evident; at other times not so much. When part of a project of this nature must comply with the rules. It's the same in a country, it's the same in a society, it's the same in a family. This is everywhere: there are rules. And, of course, the rules on competition, which were brought to the colloquium by the honourable Member about EMEF and CP Cargo, which involve State aid, apply to all European countries. It is in this sense that the statement by the Secretary of State reports, that is to say, that we cannot fail to respect these rules. But they are good rules, sir. They are not bad rules, they are good rules, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u53	Even if they're against our interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u54	I know that the Portuguese Communist Party would prefer a discretionary intervention. For example, on TAP, they said: « There is no problem. TAP is important for Portugal, you keep the public, set the money that is needed, invest whatever it is necessary, do not care that it violates the rules of the game, does not interest you to misapply the money of the Portuguese... Defend that company in any way». Today, I say: Mr. Member, the best way to defend that company, keeping the rules, is to privatize it! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u55	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, essentially confirms this concern and complaint about your view of national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u58	As, in accordance with the order of business chosen by Mr Prime Minister, he made no reference to the issue of layoffs in public service, I would like to talk about this. The Government has been ensuring that the process of vocational retraining of public administration workers does not involve any dismissal. Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security said that he was preparing to send more than 600 social security professionals to requalify — they would therefore be dismissed — he assured that, and I quote, "no one is dismissed at all. That is the first point». last week, the Minister of Finance said exactly the opposite. He referred to the same workers, saying that there are employees who may end up being dismissed. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: who is responsible for this? In view of their particular responsibilities, who speaks the truth? Is it the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Employment and Social Security? This issue of requalification or dismissal is not a semantic issue. It is unacceptable that workers and their lives should be made a toy in the hands of this government and that words should be used to cover this central objective of a government which talks so much about employment but which essentially wishes to fire, in particular, the employees of the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u59	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a controversial issue. The regime that has been in force since the time before this government is that, in mobility or requalification, as we now call it, workers who are admitted to the State since 2009 may lose the bond, insofar as they have no longer won the link to the State for life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u61	And you think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u62	We did not alter that regime, Mr President, we did not alter that regime. Therefore, it is not the motivation of the diploma of requalification and the regime that prevails is the one that comes from behind. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u63	Really, you agree with what comes from behind!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u64	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u65	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have already found that it is clearly inclined to the option and to the statement by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u67	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u68	In fact, what this government wants is to fire, more than requalify. I would like to ask you one last question about your satisfaction with reducing expenditure. Too bad I didn't say why and where that reduction was made. 15 days ago, in the last 15-year debate, he announced that health problems were being resolved and that the Government had already taken action in this direction. in this space of time, the problem was aggravated, with more situations of chaos in the emergencies of hospitals, with more cases of deaths, in waiting rooms, of patients who have not been cared for. And even doctors have resigned from their service management functions because they do not want to deal with this government policy that denies patients health care. The question we are asking you is not in the sense of knowing what the government will do to solve the problem, because we already know that the government is not interested in it, but in the sense of knowing what political consequences it is that the government will take away from this situation of war medicine, which is installed in the country's health services. What responsibility will you assume and demand for the situation you have created? We are talking about a precious asset, Prime Minister, which is the health of the Portuguese, that this government, during its governance, has so mistreated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u69	Follow the left block questions. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u70	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I told us here, and well, that we have a responsibility for the future. It is because of this responsibility that we should look at the country we have and the situation in which we are. When we see the unemployment rate numbers, the most disturbing thing is to realize that young unemployment is still rising. As you know, since 2011 internships have been counted as jobs, which means that unemployment is always underrated and employment is always overrated. Even with the stages and even taking into account the hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who have already had to emigrate, young unemployment continues to rise — it is more than 35 % — and if we count on the stages and emigration, we realize that young unemployment in Portugal will be around 50 %. Responsibility for the future is to respond to those who are 18 years old today, to whom they are 20 years old today, to whom they are 30 years old, how they must live in this country. If, on the one hand, we have unemployment data, on the other hand, we have public debt data. When your government comes out of office, it will leave the biggest public debt of democracy ever. Never in 40 years has the country had such a high debt as it was produced during the mandate of this government. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] And Mr. Prime Minister is here to tell us that he thinks it is a bad idea to restructure public debt! Open... Mr. Prime Minister, whose commitments are yours? It is true that all countries must honour the commitments they make, both external and internal, but when the commitments they signed with finance are clearly destroying the living conditions of those who live here, then the moral accountability of the government is to renegotiate these commitments, it is to respond to the interests of those who live here. That, yes, is responsibility for the future! Mr. Prime Minister, there is now a new door in Europe, there is a turning point. The Prime Minister will be confronted at the European Council and the Minister for Finance will be confronted in the Eurogroup with a government, the Syriza Government of Greece, which will propose that the countries — which are today in crises as difficult as the Greek, but also as the Portuguese, Irish, Spanish — meet and hold a conference for debt restructuring, as Germany was entitled after the Second World War, so that the amounts can be cut to bear amounts and interest can be indexed to the growth of the economy to be able to get out of the crisis. The justice that is demanded today is the same as the solidarity and generosity that Germany was entitled to after the Second World War. The question to the Portuguese Government today is the following: when the issue is raised, will it be on the side of whoever wants to renegotiate debts and who wants this European conference, or will he be on the side of subjecting the country to more suffering on behalf of financial markets and financial speculation? That's the confrontation! Mr Prime Minister, we want to know which side you are on, that is, if you want to participate in the conference to renegotiate debt, as even the Irish Government has already said it is necessary, or, on the contrary, if you want everything to stay in the same and with whom you are young in this country not to realize if you can live here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u71	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u72	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, although not because of inter-party solidarity, I believe that I should congratulate you on the results of the elections in Greece, as the party congenerous to the Left Block won these elections. I understand, therefore, that the honourable Member is still excited about this outcome and has packaged her questions with some of the proposals that the party congenerates in Greece has come forward and that we, as you know, do not subscribe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u73	It is not « congenere party», it is the Syriza party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u74	I understand that you may be excited about this, but let me tell you that I do not believe that this is an exciting prospect for any of the countries you have appointed. This is for the simple reason that all the countries that you have appointed have made a successful effort to solve your problems of deep external imbalance, of economic recession, which is the result of the lack of external funding, have had to guarantee extraordinary forms of financing under difficult conditions and have managed to solve these problems. Having managed to solve these problems, these countries know that they have a large but sustainable debt stock, which is very important. These countries therefore know what it took for them the circumstances that led them to borrow in an extraordinary way and negotiate in very complicated conditions adjustment programmes that are difficult; but they were able to solve them. These countries do not want to go through this process again. I do not want to go through this process again and I do not believe that the Portuguese want to go through that process again, which is exactly what would happen if, today, I announced that Portugal wanted to restructure its debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u76	I understand that the honourable Member can say this without expecting that it has any extraordinary impact on both our financiers and our creditors, but I am very aware of the responsibility of the position I occupy and the consequences of stating certain statements. What the honourable Member wants would be against the interest of the Portuguese and Portugal. I won't! I will therefore not be on the side of any conference that is proposed to forgive debts or to restructure debt at the expense of the solidarity of the European peoples. That is clear, that is very clear! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u77	Madam Member, on the issue of young unemployment, I myself, in my speech, drew attention to this problem, but let me tell you that the fact that our unemployment rates include or reflect those who are in stages and in training and do not include those who are discouraged, etc. , it is not a Portuguese specificity, it is not an ability of this government to say that the fee is this or that is that, are the rules followed everywhere. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we could attribute the rates in all the countries of the European Union if these data were reflected differently. however, what I would like you to tell me is whether or not you think there is a positive trend in the rate of unemployment in Portugal since January 2013 and, despite the fact that you said about young unemployment, whether or not it is a good result that the unemployment rate has generally fallen from 17, 7 % to 13, 4 %. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u78	Mrs Catarina Martins, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u79	Mr President, on the unemployment rate, Mr Prime Minister acknowledges that young unemployment is rising and, as a matter of fact, I remember - what the Bloc proposed was an audit which the majority have led. As such, I think you have some fear of knowing exactly the numbers of unemployment! Mr Prime Minister, record that there are no problems in a country that pays the equivalent of all interest education each year in a country where debt is unsustainable. And Mr. Prime Minister will leave the government, go away, leave a monster problem, do everything to make the problem worse and not be able to assume responsibilities. So I wanted to tell you about something I said today, and I think it is deeply shocking. Mr Prime Minister, in the execution of the budget, realized that there was no tax problem but he was proud of the cuts in expenditure. I wanted to know what you cut in the expense is that you're proud of yourself. It's because, three days before he died a person without assistance in the urgency of Santa Maria Hospital, the emergency director told him he had no means. There are people dying in emergencies without assistance! They cut, saying they didn't cut people's lives and the result is in sight. I ask you: what is the extent to which the government has taken, in health centres or hospitals, to avoid this calamity situation that we are experiencing? What measure? What measure was applied to respond to the emergency situation when winter began? Nobody noticed anything, Prime Minister. Was that the cut at the expense of his pride? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u80	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u81	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, Portuguese debt is sustainable. I do not subscribe, I do not follow your statement. And I'm not alone, Your Honor. Secondly, the honourable Member said that people who die in emergencies reflect the government's responsibility to reduce the functioning of the health sector. Let me tell you that there is no such connection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u82	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u83	Be serious, if you please! Be serious, if you please! And don't do cheap demagogy with serious business! Don't do it, it hurts! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese Government, over the past three years, has put more money on health, more doctors on health and more means on health than anyone else until three years ago. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u84	Mrs. Members, I reiterate that there are indispensable expressions within the framework of Parliament's freedom of expression. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u85	Madam President, I believe that asking Mr Prime Minister, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua has done, to be serious in her statements is something that only the Assembly of the Republic has no problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u86	Who needs to be serious are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u87	Mr. Prime Minister, I note that you have not indicated a single measure that the government has taken to counter the imbalance in health and, therefore, what the Block has said is true... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Madam President, I have no conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the reaction, but I ask you now to listen... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the Bureau has already expressed its position on this matter. I ask you now to listen to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister did not set the example of a single measure, which proves what the Left Block has been saying: he has saved himself from spending on the National Health Service, but they do not save lives, and that cannot be excused by a government. Mr. Prime Minister, I heard you say here that the Portuguese debt is sustainable... you know that Carlos Coedas, when the debt was 90 %, already said it was unsustainable; now, with more than 130 %, Mr. Prime Minister comes to tell us that it is sustainable. It seems, yes, a story of children today saying that Portuguese debt is sustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u91	This just reminds me of another story, the story of that candidate to the prime minister who promised that he would not cut wages, who promised that he would not fire workers, who promised that he would not cut holiday allowances or increase taxes and that he was then elected prime minister. This children's story doesn't end well, does it, Mr. Prime Minister? But there is a country that is not defeated and knows that it is possible to make a difference. And I tell you that today workers in the social security of Aveiro and Viana have been able, in the courts, to stop the requalification process and show that what your government is doing has no legitimacy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Social security workers must be retrained. And I also tell you not to make sure that you can continue privatisations or that the country has a "sell" tab at the door. The privatisation of TAP must be stopped, it will be stopped, because it is against the most basic national interests, as well as the privatization of public transport, CP CARGA, EMEF. We won't let it pass. You know, Prime Minister, in Ireland, electricity is public ; in Greece, privatization of ports and electricity has stopped ; here, in Portugal, whether your government wants to refuse, TAP will continue to be public. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u92	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u93	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the issue of debt, I will say only that Portuguese debt is sustainable. This conclusion has been repeatedly affirmed by international bodies and, of course, by our creditors. Therefore, Mrs. Member, if those whom we should believe we are going to pay will make little sense that the country that must say that it has no means to pay when it has. As far as health is concerned, I would like to say again to you, Mrs Deputies, that you are making a joke and a lot of demagogy around a matter which is too sensitive and which should not be given to that service. I will say, Mrs. Member, what I told you recently: this government has invested in having more medical cash in the National Health Service than I had when I took possession; we have more beds at the service of the patients than those that existed when I arrived;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u94	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u95	...and we transferred more money from the State budget to health than before. It is true, Mrs. Member, and not only. We also remodeled several emergency services and opened new equipment in the area of health. I know that the honourable Member is asking the questions, not waiting for me to answer. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u96	I'm waiting for a measure, but nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u97	...but when my answer doesn't interest you or doesn't like you because you're not meeting the prejudice you have, you're trying to interrupt me and devalue what I'm telling you. It does not lead to harm, but it does not stop — to use its expression — a serious debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We invest more in health, we create more places for doctors to work in the National Health Service, we have more beds, we requalify emergencies, we opened new hospitals, we invest in the National Health Service. And when the honourable Member refers to the transfers that have been made for the purposes of covering the liabilities that existed, i.e. the responsibilities, we also did so to financialize the Portuguese hospitals that are important instruments for health care. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, Mrs. Deputy, don't confuse me. What is happening in health in Portugal has also happened in other European countries, in an abnormal way, challenging installed capacity, challenging the quality of our professionals, who have been called upon to intervene under unusual, unusual conditions and who have still been able to provide excellent service. Furthermore, still this week, a Swedish study on health in European consumers showed that Portugal rose three positions in relation to the previous year and that it is today, therefore, among the best-classified countries—if the memory does not appeal to me, it is in seventh or eighth place—in European terms. So, Mrs. Member, let's not confuse the two things. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u98	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u99	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I believe you can divert health numbers as you understand, but there are issues to which the government cannot escape. Let's imagine that Garcia de Horta Hospital has been designed to serve 150 000 people, but it serves much more than 400 000. How, then, can you give an answer? And what is the government's response? « The new Seixal hospital is not built. We're sorry, but we're not going to build! This is how the government has responded to the National Health Service and that is why things can only work because you try to misguide and manipulate numbers. I don't know if Mr. Prime Minister noticed what he said to the Portuguese today. What Mr. Prime Minister came to say was that "the people we fired, the social benefits we withdrew to those who needed, to sum up the impoverishment of Portuguese more the fragility of public services, in the cuts we made in health and education, was a marvel to us, because it allows us today to say that the effort of consolidation was made largely at the cost of spending. » That is what Mr. Prime Minister here came to say. Then Mr. Prime Minister wanted to devalue the increase in taxes. I don't know why Mr. Prime Minister didn't say that the IRS went up to the workers EUR 540 million, but that the IRC for the companies dropped virtually at the same amount.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u100	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u101	In other words, what workers paid more companies paid less, big companies paid less. It was therefore done at the expense of the impoverishment of the people and Mr. Prime Minister is still here bragging about this. What the Prime Minister has said about Greece and has qualified for progress must make us deeply concerned, because the humiliation of a people, the sacrifice of a people, is what Mr Prime Minister calls for progress. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like your comments and answers on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u102	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u103	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the tone of your contrasting indignation, I believe, with the results that we have achieved. I know that the honourable Member does not defend and did not defend the way the Government has dealt with the economic and social crisis, that the honourable Member does not want an external rescue and does not agree with the memorandum that has been executed. We know that, Mrs. Member. I can tell you that, when I was President of the PSD and the PSD was the largest party in the opposition — I was therefore not in the government — and I did not like a financial rescue situation, and I did not like the need to ask abroad for the means we needed, I said clearly that I would meet that Memorandum because it was essential in the financing it had, in the support and in the time it gave us to recover from the tragic situation that the country had arrived, it was essential for Portugal to be able to overcome this situation. We made adjustments to the Memorandum while we executed it, closed it and arranged it. Mrs. Deputy thinks that's wrong. I think that's good. And if you ask the Portuguese general, they are pleased that this matter has been arranged. They would not have been satisfied — I think I might be wrong — if Portugal had needed a second rescue, if it had an unsustainable trajectory of its debt, if it were today announcing a austerity package following another austerity package within what was considered the recessive spiral from which it would not emerge. With that, yes, I think the Portuguese would be worried, but since that is not what is happening, I believe that the honourable Member makes her speech a little bit hystrionic — not to hurt — insofar as she is completely divorced from our reality. She said: 'Well, you came here to boast of the cuts in expenditure'. Mrs. Member, I come here to show that I did what was necessary to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u104	Go show Garcia de Horta!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u105	If the country had a State budget that generated a public deficit of almost 11% deficit in 2010 and if there was no one to lend us money to spend that way and fund our expenditure, what is the honourable Member waiting for? Does the government increase expenditure? You should certainly consider that if we don't have any money to spend, we have to spend less. It seems to me that this is a good program. Don't you think Mrs. Deputy? Now, the honourable Member says: "Well, but you can't cut into anything. Look, if you cut into social areas this is dramatic, if you cut into public investment it is paid in the future, if you cut into social benefits this is a social disaster... » O mr. Member, in a country where public spending concentrates essentially on social spending and wages, it is two thirds of that expenditure. We have often held this debate, have we not, Madam Member? We're not saying anything again, are we? Why have we not made progress in our debate in Parliament? [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u106	Why do you want Mrs. Deputy and the Greens to always bring up the discussion of a past that is resolved for this day? I know that, at this time, it was more interesting on the side of the opposition to shake fear and the pope of austerity to have more sympathy. But this is no longer the case, Mrs Deputies, the circumstances are no longer that. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u107	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u108	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I explain why we did not progress in the debate. We have not progressed in the debate because Mr Prime Minister does not answer the questions that are put to him and always responds with the same jokes and always with the same speech made without answering. Mr. Prime Minister, you said here there's no money.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u109	There wasn't, but there is now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u110	I just told him there was money. When there was no money, you came down the IRC to the big companies, gave up receiving money and sacrificed workers' taxes. You have made very clear choices. You can't say there was no money, because there was money for what you wanted. For what they didn't want, it was just to get out who you work for, Prime Minister. That was your option. In other words, Mr. Prime Minister has shown that everything is worth achieving the aims that were proposed. If it is necessary to put the Portuguese down, impoverish the Portuguese more, there is no problem. You come here to shake numbers without looking at the reality of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u112	Mr Prime Minister, in the year of elections, Mr Prime Minister has finally decided to give some illusions to the country and to say « that piled up we raised in the IRS, we will now come down a little bit». But they automatically created environmental taxation to compensate for what they would lose in the IRS. So don't talk about the environmental component. Don't! Environmental taxation has nothing to do with environmental matters, it only serves to increase taxes and compensate for other taxes. The only incentive that environmental taxation gives is for electric cars. The only one! And I ask you, Prime Minister : who in the country has money to buy electric cars? You know it's just who has the most purchasing power and knows that this will result in a super-residual thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u113	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u114	I will finish, Madam President. Do not put the environment in that taxation, because nothing has to do with it. Now, Madam President, a very quick last record: the Minister of the Environment has determined an environmental inspection of your dam because there are complaints that EDP does not comply with the environmental impact statement. It was last July. The Minister of the Environment assured that a month later he would have the result of this inspection. Six months have passed and no one knows this result. I hope that it has been found that EDP does not actually comply with what it should do and the government does not penalise EDP rather than abdicating the continuation of your dam, what it does is to hide the result of the inspection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u115	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u116	Mr Prime Minister, in the next debate, please bring the result of this inspection. [[Congrats by Mr José Luís Ferreira and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u117	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u118	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I am not surprised and I think that Mr Prime Minister will not be surprised either, because the Socialist Party preferred, in its speech, not to talk about the implementation of the budget. I believe that this will have to do with two things, of course, in the first place, because the expenditure has decreased and the Socialist Party's revenue, in fact, is that expenditure increases, increases, increases, until we can no longer pay and someone comes to make a new adjustment program. But I think that's not all that, Prime Minister. With regard to budgetary implementation it is not only a matter of disagreement, because the Socialist Party, in fact, prefers to increase expenditure until there is no money and we prefer that it be contained and channelled to what is essential. I believe that it is also because the Socialist Party has a heavy conscience in this matter, Prime Minister. I'll just remember two sentences. « Mr Prime Minister, if the deficit of 3 % is a point of honour, it will have to present additional measures and the PS therefore believes that this is an opportunity to renegotiate the targets of the deficit ». It was not said two years ago, Prime Minister, Mr. João Galamba said it on November 5, 2014 two months ago. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u119	The second sentence is this: "The PS considers that this Budget has a problem of credibility, in a macroeconomic scenario discredited by reality, which will make it change the goals, falling into reality". It was not said two years ago, Mr. Prime Minister, it was said on October 22 October 2014 three months ago by Mr. Vieira da Silva. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u120	It is due to the heavy consciousness of the PS, which once again failed, and failed throughout the line, because Portugal has sometimes met, sometimes even seems against the will of the PS, which do not talk about budgetary execution. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] As far as unemployment is concerned, this omission by the opposition is also curious. Mr Prime Minister said very well that yesterday the INE reported that the unemployment rate is 13, 4 %. It is a high rate — let's be clear — and it must be the priority of this government's priorities, particularly with regard to young unemployment, but what the PS left us was not far away from this and with public investment and artificial injection into the Portuguese economy. It's good to remember this! More than that, Mr Prime Minister, it is good to remember, as, moreover, Mr Prime Minister did, that the INE also corrected the data of October and November, saying that, after all, it was not 13 %, 6 % and 13 %, 9 %, but, yes, 13 %, 5 %, i.e. that unemployment has not increased, stabilized and now indeed decreased. So, Prime Minister, the following is still curious: when the INE mentioned a possible increase in unemployment, which has not been confirmed, you know how many political statements the opposition parties have made here, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Seven! Seven political statements in three weeks on this issue, saying that the economy was not growing, that government policy was failing and that unemployment was recovering from an old thesis, increasing gallopingly. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, the INE has rectified its position and its errors; the opposition today did not have a word to correct its mistakes and what I said in the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is appropriate to say, Mr. Prime Minister, that when the country recovers the desperate opposition, it does not know well what to do, because it had a certain narrative and, from a discursive point of view, it literally goes without saying anything. But, Prime Minister, INE yesterday also mentioned other data that is important here, which are the consumer and business confidence index. And I point out, Prime Minister, what INE says : « Consumer confidence has improved again in January, in the best result since May 2002, in a marked upward trend observed since the beginning of 2013. » This is referred to by INE, Prime Minister! There is, once again, when the country recovers, the opposition continues to despair, without having any kind of speech. Perhaps yesterday's figures — falling from unemployment, increasing consumer and business confidence index — explain the three 'numbers' of television which the opposition sought, one in relation to the Committee of Inquiry to BES, another in relation to visasgold and the other in return to the ineffable Dr. Ana Gomes. Well, we, in the face of this politicism, prefer the political debate,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u121	... and the political debate focuses on facts. And the facts are: yesterday, 24 hours ago, we learned that unemployment has fallen, consumer confidence has increased, entrepreneurs' confidence has increased — it is good for the country, because it recovers, it is bad for the opposition, because it is desperate, Prime Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And that despair, this disorientation, Prime Minister, seems to have been marked since Sunday. Since Sunday, from PS to the Left Block, we have had a kind of race to the title « I am the most Syriza ». It seems that now everyone wants to say « I am Syriza ». Well, Mr Prime Minister, I want to tell you that, on our part, we are Portuguese, we are in Portugal, in a debate in the Portuguese Parliament and it is Portugal that we want to talk about. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But because we did not run away from the political debate with political figures, Prime Minister, I would like those who spoke about Greece, and they were all opposed — the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the Left Block — to have commented on the statements made by the Greek Minister of Finance, who said that it would be good for the interest and financing costs of Ireland, Portugal and Spain to increase, which would mean shooting at the tank and wasting all Portuguese efforts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u123	National interest has to prevail over party solidarity, and this is what these parties have not yet realized. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Portugal is in fact not Greece! We love and respect Greece, we respect and respect the Greek voters, who have decided how well they have understood — they are in their right! — but facts are facts: interest on Greek public debt — 10, 5 %; interest on Portuguese public debt — 2, 5 %; Portugal had a ransom, Greece had two and is on its way to the third if it is achieved; Greece now has the troika in Athens ; Portugal, at its own time and at its own time, managed to stop having the troika in Lisbon, as we have always promised, not falling into the corners of the mermaid on the left, which wanted more time and more money, forgetting that this means more interest, more sacrifice and more loss of sovereignty, Mr Prime Minister. It is important to remember here who was on the right side of history and who was on the wrong side of history! That is why, Prime Minister, there is a growing divergence between reality and the desire for opposition. The reality is that 1, 8 million Portuguese with ascending or dependent descendants will pay less IRS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u125	... 120 000 families will cease to do so, the public service will recover 20 % of the lost income, will be the end of the ESC for pensioners up to €4600, there will be an increase in national minimum wage and a reduction in taxes for businesses. Because, yes, sir. Members, it is the companies that create jobs and it is through the creation of jobs that can combat unemployment. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We know that there are Members here who believe in the model, which has been tested in the past, in which the only job creator was the State, in which the state controlled everything. It is not our case, it is not the case of the space in which we are involved, which is the space of the European Union. So, Prime Minister, I mean: are there any difficulties? There is certainly a high unemployment rate that, although it has fallen from 17, 7 % to 13, 4 %, is still high in what should be our priority. But the truth is that the country is recovering and, as the country recovers, once again, as we have seen today, the opposition despairs, remains without speech. The country gets better. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u126	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u127	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I find it very legitimate to comment on the Socialist Party's omission in budgetary matters. But it is not just that of the Socialist Party, Mr. in fact, when the State Budget for 2014 was presented in Parliament, there was no one in the opposition who did not understand it incomprehensible, irrefutable or, as far as it was, a disaster for the country. And the truth is that the budgetary implementation rejects both views, as I have said. We have achieved our goals, we will achieve — that is our perspective — the goal of the deficit and, therefore, the rhetoric that we fail to achieve the forecasts, that we do not achieve the goals, that we do not meet, even what we propose is a rhetoric that is completely out of line with reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u128	How many rectifications were presented in 2014? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u129	We meet the goals and, when we meet the goals, something wrong has to exist on the side of the opposition. I believe that this exercise becomes painful and does not credible the opposition or credibility of the political debate. We may disagree with the policies of a government, but we cannot say that a government does not have the means to achieve an objective, it is met and there is then no admission of that error. The government has achieved this objective and this is indispensable for the path we are going. All those who have spread their pessimism about the projections the Portuguese Government presented for 2015, as happened with the European Commission, as with the International Monetary Fund, should now take into account the results that have already been achieved and correct their prospects. We know that, for example, the report of the first post-programme mission on the side of the International Monetary Fund should soon be presented. This is a report which relates to the evaluation that was made at the end of October last year, when this data was not yet known. The European Commission has revealed its report in December, the International Monetary Fund will do so now and will, of course, point to a reality that does not exist, which is the doubt about whether we have the conditions to achieve an objective that we have achieved. The same applies to Portuguese exports. Although we know that the conditions of external demand are worse than what was predicted one and two years ago, Portuguese exports have increased and increased exports of goods and services, both above the growth rate of the economy, the forecast of which we maintain, should be around 1 % last year. This means, therefore, that the projections we had were not unwise, were not made to show a service that was impossible to perform. in fact, we have succeeded in achieving what we proposed, and this should be important, even for the opposition. It is that if the opposition said that this was impossible and that its strategy was better than ours today, of course, must be pregnant by us having achieved those results without the dramatism that would accompany, in social policies, the fulfilment of these goals. So, Mr President, I think it is important, even for the credibility of the policy of the political system itself, that when any important outcome is achieved for the country it is recognized and if this temptation to seek always is avoided "but what is hidden there that we can still use to say wrong? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u131	The unemployment rate has fallen, but it has gone up a bit for young people — 'worst! » Only if we talk about it, we don't talk about the rest. We spent three months in opposition to saying that the government's economic strategy had failed because of unemployment. After all, nothing happened to unemployment, but the opposition did not correct its shot. I think the Portuguese are also paying attention to this situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u133	...and, of course, it is for them that we, serenely, have to govern and present results. The honourable Member also drew attention to a statement by the Greek Minister for Finance, regarding the hypothesis of interest rates in Portugal, Ireland and Spain could be further exacerbated in order to make it more evident that the new Greek Government needed to accept the proposals it has put forward. I would prefer that this statement had not been made in those terms. Of course, I want the rates in Greece to evolve as favourably as possible — still a few months ago, they were converging to almost 5 % by 10 years — which could probably allow Greece to leave an assistance programme and get funding on the market. Today, that perspective does not exist! from the stock exchange point of view, Greece has withdrawn two years; from the point of view of interest rates, almost so much. And, therefore, today, it becomes more difficult for Greece to restart a path that allows it to provide external support so that it can finance itself. I would like Portugal and the other European countries to be on the side of the good solution for Greece and to help the Greek government solve the problem of Greece. But I hope, of course, that this is not done or achieved at the expense of the Portuguese or Spanish, worsening their situation, deteriorating their prospects. on the contrary, what I would like to say here, Mr Nuno Magalhães — and, through it, tell Mr Ferro Rodrigues, who made this remark — is that today we have the opportunity to recognise that Europe would not have remained cohesive, nor would the euro have been able to maintain itself, as a reference currency in Europe and in the world if Portugal had failed, if Ireland had failed, if Spain had failed. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u134	The Europe we want to build and which we stand for today would no longer exist because it would not be possible to demand a part of Europe to bear the cost of the other side. Each one must do his part of the work and we, during these three years, have fulfilled our part of the work and are therefore in a position to demand that the others also do so. That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u136	When the President of the European Central Bank came to say « take care, do not think that monetary policy will solve growth problems », he said well: we do not have monetary policy to serve the goal of growth, but the objective of financial stability and inflation, that is, not to have uncontrolled inflation — is the main objective of monetary policy. But if the European Central Bank had to, as I have repeatedly admitted, resort to non-conventional measures to ensure the effectiveness of monetary policy, that would not mean that the aim for the European Central Bank had changed. The aim is the same: it is not to stimulate the growth of the economy, it is to ensure that we are not in deflation. Therefore, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has no reason: the ECB could not act as it is now, because in 2010 we had no deflation. The monetary policy problems at the time were not these, but at the time the European Central Bank was active, and I do not understand why Mr Rodrigues has forgotten this. It is wrong for you, Mr Member, even because it was a government of the Socialist Party that ruled at the time and that it deserved direct and indirect intervention on the market by the European Central Bank to help finance the Portuguese State. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u137	It was more than EUR 40 billion which, directly and indirectly, the European Central Bank provided the Portuguese State for one year — 2010 to 2011 — until the time of the rescue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u138	I can't answer it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u139	Therefore, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, it is wrong: the ECB always intervenes, always fulfilling its role, defending the euro, seeking that monetary policy could be effective. But, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, it is true that it is not in the ECB's mandate to draw the economy, that is not the first objective of the ECB, that is the objective of budgetary policy and economic policy. Mr President, that is what the President of the European Central Bank says when he appeals to the reformist spirit of governments, saying « do not expect the ECB to solve the problem of economic growth. Do your part. » We have been doing our role... [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] ...and we see that other governments...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u140	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u141	I will conclude, Madam President, by saying that we see other governments, including even socialist inspiration, such as the Italian Government or even the French Government, who have gone on track with regard to their original intentions, and are, in fact, implementing a programme, a structural reform agenda. And this structural reform, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, is indispensable for Europe, to increase our resilience and to enable all of us together to have a more positive outlook for growth and employment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u142	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u143	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by talking about Greece and the elections last Sunday to reiterate our position of respect for the expression of the popular will of the Greeks in free and democratic elections, and our desire that Greece, as Mr Prime Minister said earlier, can take a path that results in overcoming, for example, the period of external aid in Portugal and Ireland. But, Prime Minister, the elections to Portugal, and at the reading that was made from Portugal, brought a novelty to the Portuguese political debate: that of having seen all the parties of the opposition — the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block — they hid on the televisions and looked at the cameras like anyone looking at a mirror, asking « my mirror, my mirror, there is someone more Syrian in Portugal than I do? » It was more or less what we saw, on Sunday night, in the reactions of the parties to the Greek elections. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is important to note this fact, because it has political content. He has political content! Because you need to know what it's like to be a Syrian. We already know that being a Syrianist means being a government that brings together political forces from the extreme left and the extreme right. It's a fact! Therefore, the parties who have turned to that result also certainly see themselves in this way as a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u145	We also know that there are political objectives such as debt renegotiation, the immediate and very significant increase in the minimum wage, and therefore the expenditure of the State, the readmission of even public servants, i.e. a number of policy measures that are expected to be taken very soon by the new Greek government. in conclusion, Mr Prime Minister, this is about assuming what the opposition parties in Portugal, in the background, have also been defending over the past few years: a penalty, ending austerity, in what it means effort to consolidate public finances and thereby achieve economic growth; not making structural reforms; it is almost that, by magic, at the same time, achieve balanced public finances, growth, job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u146	It's true! [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u147	This is apparently what it is to be a Syrianist, and this is what brought together all the opposition political parties on last Sunday. But, Prime Minister, the issue that is most of interest to Portugal is not exactly that. It is perhaps, starting from this base of reflection, that we ask the Portuguese: if we had, in Portugal, executed the Syrian recipe that brings together so much—and joined both over the past three and a half years—the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, we were today, in Portugal, how are we? Were we today in Portugal with historically low interest rates on the markets? Were we today, in Portugal, retiring salaries in the Public Administration? Were we in Portugal today making an increase in the consistent, solid national minimum wage—we believe that lasting and that it can evolve more positively in the coming years? Were we today in Portugal with the economy growing, and growing more than the euro area average? Were we today in Portugal in a position to start a process of early payment of our loans to the International Monetary Fund? Were we today in Portugal to be able to recover pensioners' income? And were we today in Portugal also able to recover, in a very consistent way, employment and lower the unemployment rate? in order to repeat the elements that have been left here today, but the numbers that were known yesterday, and today also confirmed by Eurostat, give us a reality that is factual: in the last 23 months, unemployment in Portugal has fallen in 22 months! This is factual! This is real! This reaches the day to day of many people, of many families, reaches the day to day and Portugal's social and economic dynamics. Mr Prime Minister, we need to ask, if we have followed that recipe, if we are in a position today to achieve this result. Indeed, Mr Prime Minister, it is a bit shocking that the opposition, in view of this reality, continues to insist that the government fails all its forecasts. The government and this majority are indeed very bad at forecasting, because we have predicted a rate of unemployment, and it is, after all, lower than that which was our forecast. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u148	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u149	We had an objective for the deficit and, after all, the deficit is lower than our objective, which was very demanding. We're bad, Prime Minister! Open... As it is said in my land, the opposition parties, these, predict it, are a category! [[Laughing.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it was thus with the advance that they did not finish the program ; so it was with the recessive spiral ; so it was with the unemployment rate ; so it was with the 2014 deficit. And, as our Minister of Economics would say, regarding the 2014 deficit... [[PSD laughter.]] So, there, it was really a category! [[PSD laughter.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] I am going to give some examples, Mr Prime Minister, of some pearls that are a sort of "depressive treasures" of Portuguese policy. Pedro Jesus Marques said in October 2013 : « I even have a strong conviction that there can be a new recession in 2014. Do not keep on seeking. ” Augusto Santos Silva said: « It is an accountable budget. It is impossible for us, without extraordinary measures, to reach 4 % of the deficit. No one believes it! Do not keep on seeking. ” Pedro Silva Pereira said: « The year 2014 will be a year of stagnation, but not even of economic recession. Do not keep on seeking. ” It says João Galamba... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u150	João Galamba said : « Multipliers calculated by Banco de Portugal and the International Monetary Fund, which, say, now of passage, has been deceived many times, say that this strategy cannot work and that its macroeconomic framework for 2014, as it was for 2013, is a fantasy. Therefore, this Budget has no credibility. Do not keep on seeking. ” And now I was saying something else: "We have some difficulty in realizing how much this budget contributes to the consolidation of public finances." They therefore had, in 2013, and still have, a great difficulty in understanding. I give the whole reason to Mr Galamba : they are, as they have always been, with great difficulty in understanding! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Until the new political leader of the Socialist Party, Manuel Caldeira Cabral, also said at the time when they asked him whether he believed in a 4 % deficit in 2014 : « Probably not, a part of the reduction will be food due to the breakdown of the recipe inherent to the austerity policy itself ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenue has increased and we are even accused of making budgetary consolidation through revenue! This is indeed very confusing, Mr Prime Minister, and it has to be said here, denounced. We must challenge the Portuguese to look at this and to understand, in fact, the political proposals and the credibility of each party's political proposals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to leave two notes on public debt. The first is that the Socialist Party very much likes to say that the public debt in Portugal in 2010 was at the home of 90% of GDP. I wasn't. It is more than proven that the real debt that meets what was not within the debt perimeter, which was hidden under the carpet was 125 % of gross domestic product. This was the case in 2010. That's how it was! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But on the sustainability of debt, there is also a question I have to ask the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u151	I'd like to answer, but I don't have time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u152	Mr Ferro Rodrigues said, well, today — 15 in 15 days, there are times when the Socialist Party speaks first of the PSD and there are others where the PSD speaks first of the Socialist Party — it is up to us to close the debate and therefore cannot answer. Mr.António José Seguro had that style of flash interview at the end of the debates and spoke in the corridor, but I will not challenge him to give me that answer in the corridor, because he will have other opportunities to say what the Socialist Party thinks. The second note on debt and its sustainability is this, Prime Minister : in Portugal, we know that the PSD and CDS-PP defend and consider that debt, which is very high, is sustainable. They defend a path that ensures this sustainability, which has, in fact, been recognised by the markets and our creditors. Then there are parties, such as the Left Block and the Communist Party, which are for the renegotiation of debt and therefore always were their options.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u153	It's consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u154	Then there's one party that is sometimes one thing and another. See, Prime Minister, the following: Today it is reported that, at a meeting of the Socialist Party held yesterday, Dr. António Costa, leader of the Socialist Party, has redefined the PS message regarding public debt, saying that, after all, debt is embarrassing to growth, but it is not unsustainable. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u155	Now, it is necessary, in fact, to know if this is true, because the same Mr Galamba I quoted recently said, in February 2014: "One thing is certain: debt is unsustainable and has to be assumed by all and played by all. The way we choose to reduce debt charges in each country is a matter for the future. Now, that it is priceless and, if we want, it is a huge obstacle to economic growth of that I have no doubt.' Look, Mr. Deputies, I still have doubts about what the Socialist Party thinks. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u156	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u157	Madam President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I congratulate you on your very successful reminder of quite contradictory positions which have been deployed by some parties and, in particular, is leading the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u158	Just lead that bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u159	He's the only leader on that bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u160	Actually, you're absolutely right. I didn't want to make a merit assessment. But retific: the greatest party in the opposition. Really, sometimes it's not enough to be the biggest one to lead. [[Laughing.]] Speaking of rectifications, I would also like to make a rectification on a subject which I have just mentioned. With regard to a report on health in Europe, I said that Portugal would be in seventh place. It's not true, Portugal is in the tenth third. It improved in the same three positions, all the more remains, but I just want to do this rectification, because I didn't realize when I had made that incorrect mention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u161	It's a bass review!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u162	More relevant, Mr, I think it is my duty to refocus our debate on development prospects in Portugal. We know that these prospects are not dissociable from the world economy and are not dissociable from the euro area and Europe. We know that. Although we now export more to the European Union, the European Union is of course the privileged destination of Portuguese exports. We have very strong monetary, economic and financial integration in the European area and therefore what is happening in Europe is obviously very important for Portugal. I have just mentioned that the way in which we respond to the challenges of the sovereign debt crisis in these years and the way in which we managed that countries with very strong imbalances had managed to correct them — at cost, of course; nobody says that it didn't cost much — was essential for safeguarding the European project, for cohesion between the various European countries, for mitigating the gap between countries and between governments and for giving the Europeans a more significant perspective for the future and, therefore, to the Portuguese as well. If the nationalist perspective had prevailed in the strategy of the various European governments, Europe would have fragmented itself and today we would not be discussing where Europe could still continue to change, but we would be discussing the important opportunities that we had lost to give consistency and future to the European project. This is due to the high level of awareness that everyone in Europe had what was at stake and, as far as Portugal is concerned, to the high awareness that the Portuguese had about their situation and what they needed to do to save their country and save Europe. Having said this, Mr President, we know that problems persist and, from the outset, it was practically realized that Greece had shown a very peculiar situation that was not common to any other European country. I would like to remind you that this is why a set of measures which are strictly aimed at Greece have been accepted within Europe which do not apply to any other country. Within certain limits, we, like Portuguese, made the effort we made, accepted this differentiation and contributed to it. We know that Greece today has more time to pay for its debt than we have or has Ireland. Greece has a shortage of interest payments for 10 years—look well—, it is not pressured annually by the interest payments of the loans it has contracted because it will only pay them from 2022 onwards. We know that they are accounted for in the same way, because they have to be paid, but they do not have the financial pressure to pay. Greece has also been forgiven interest in so far as it has been returned, in particular through Banco de Portugal, Banco de España, Banco de France, etc. , all results obtained with the valuation of Greek debt securities. They left the national banks'balance sheet and were credited to Greece. We did so by saying that Greece was a unique case, but that it deserved the solidarity of Europe and also of the Portuguese, even of the Portuguese who were pursuing a path of difficulty. We therefore do not accept today this theory, which is a little widespread in certain means, that if any disaster happens to Greece this is not due to what the Greek Government will want, or not, to decide, it is due to the lack of responsibility of Europe. As far as the Portuguese Government is concerned, I would like to rule out any charges in this regard. It is in our common interest and we are available to help Greece pursue a path that will enable it to restore its balance and grow. No one has suffered more during this process than the Greeks, who certainly deserve the best result from their choices — because they have chosen and chosen different governments over these years. I do not accept, however, that if anything goes wrong in Greece, it is because the European governments or the European Commission do not accept the Greek Government's proposals. If the notion of responsibility is that, then we do everything we want and what we want and then we expect someone to pay for what our choices are. We can choose as we understand, we are free to choose as we want – and we choose as we want – and we are adults to choose, too, the consequences of the responsibilities of our decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u164	I respect the decisions of the Greek people, as I will respect the decisions of the Greek Government, as I hope that Greece respects the decisions of the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese people. There is no more solidarity, no less solidarity. That's right. With regard to the second aspect, Mr President, I hope that this quote which has appeared today in the media and which is attributed to the leader of the Socialist Party is correct. I don't know if it is, or not, because you can't literally take everything that appears in the media, but I admit it is. I think it is very important, especially for a party that has the intention of being able to lead the government in the future, to clarify this matter, to know what it is that counts, so that voters are not led to deception. The Portuguese debt, in my view, is sustainable, and that is what the Government has defended. in the case of the Socialist Party, we do not know, there are days, but I hope that this is the prevailing opinion. But there is something very important, Mr. If debt is sustainable, we cannot say that all policies have allowed it to be sustainable. We cannot say that debt is sustainable but that budgetary policy has to be another: that we have to spend more; that there has to be more flexibility for those who have excessive deficits, for those who have more debt; that there must be more for them and for others not; that others like them should not have so much flexibility, for these things must be stricter; that those who have more debt, who have more deficits, who have more expenditure, need more flexibility. Within this logic, no debt would be sustainable. There is therefore an inexhaustible contradiction in this position of the Socialist Party, who wants to enjoy the benefits of debt sustainability, budgetary success, but does not want to be burdened with measures that support budgetary success or debt sustainability. That is why this is not a credible position. Today, Mr President, we can present a result that is not quintessence, it is not peace on earth, it is not the last important result that we have achieved. We will achieve many other important results for the future, but what we have achieved so far has been indispensable for the country to be able to close this part of the conversation and open up to the other: the conversation of how we help Portuguese companies improve their balance sheet so that they can invest more; how can we help our companies diversify in exports, so that they do not depend too much on certain destinations that can occasionally produce more negative results for these companies. We can also talk about how we can put our scientific and innovation system at the service of the added value of the economy and companies; how to take further the rules within the simplification state that allow the business dynamics to be even stronger to meet the objectives we have drawn from decentralization to Portugal, while at the same time taking care to restore income that is indispensable for future savings and investment. This is the conversation we are having now, but unfortunately most opposition parties are not yet prepared to discuss it, because they have not yet had the opportunity to present their measures for these plans. Here we will continue waiting for that opposition contribution. But as always in these three and a half years, if we had been waiting for the opposition to do what was necessary, well the country had become worse, well Portugal would be suffering today! That is not the circumstance, so I am very pleased, Mr, that we can face the year 2015 with more optimism than we would have had if we had failed our objectives and if our reforms had not continued. Furthermore, this week could still be seen by a very important measure and which, contrary to what Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, does not reveal any fear of large companies, rather, imposes a fair solution from the point of view of the gas market, insofar as it also brings natural gas contracts to the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector. This measure shows, therefore, that we do not govern according to the days, but that we have a clear strategy that we are implementing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u165	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 15-year debate. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government, who, according to the information they have reached the Bureau, remain in the Chamber to associate themselves with the votes of regret. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, I ask the services that prepare the electronic system for verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 200 presences to which 13 ( 2 PCP, 2 PS, 8 PSP and 1 CDS-PP ) are added, signalled to the Bureau by 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our vote script contains a number of regrets. Let's start by reading and voting these votes and, in the end, we'll keep a minute silent about all of them. Let us begin by voting No 247 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of former MP José Freire Antunes ( PSD and PS ), who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on Monday, at the age of 61, in Versailles, France, José Freire Antunes. Former PSD Member, journalist and historian, was also deputy politician of Prime Minister Aníbal Cavaco Silva, between 1988 and 1993. Master in international relations at the Faculty of Communications of Complutensian University of Madrid, José Freire Antunes was natural of Paul, council of Covilhã. Still here he started his political intervention in student associivism, which would continue in Lisbon. PSD member elected by the Port Circle, was in the Assembly of the Republic between 2005 and 2009. in the PSD, he stood out for having defended the conduct of an internal referendum in the PSD on the presidentials to choose which candidate to support by the party, idea that led in motion to the XVII Social Democratic Congress. Soon he became involved in journalism, collaborated in regional newspapers such as Covilhã News, Journal of the Center and Journal of the Fundão, as well as in juvenile supplements of the Diário de Lisboa and the Republic and still in the Journal of Commerce. He was in the United States of America as a Gulbenkian scholarshipr, later becoming a researcher at the University of Colombia, working on a research project on Americans in Portugal. Back in Lisbon he became a researcher of contemporary history, having published a vast work in this area. Author of more than 20 books on the history and external relations of Portugal, published numerous articles in several newspapers and magazines. He was married and had four children. José Freire Antunes received the Medal of Municipal Merit from the Municipal Chamber of Covilhã, culture section, in 1999, as « recognition for the relevant activity in this field, prestigious the city and the country. To the grieving family, the Assembly of the Republic presents its deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u167	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote on vote No 247 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 248 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of former Deputy Manuel Pereira Dias ( PS and PSD ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u168	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last January 27, in Abrantes, from where he was natural, the citizen Manuel Pereira Dias. With his death it is not only his local community, but also the district of Santarém, the region to which he devoted much of his political life, who say goodbye to the figure of an exemplary citizen. However, it is the testimony of dedication to the public cause, tolerance and respect for human dignity, values which, with this vote of regret, the Assembly of the Republic intends to express in a tribute entirely due to the integrity of life. Manuel Pereira Dias was born in 1930. He participated for the first time in 1949 in the Norton campaign of Matos. He was, in the days of the dictatorship, an activist of the CDE, where he infiltrated among well-known personalities such as Antonio Reis or Mary of Jesus Barroso. Militant of the Socialist Party since 25 April 1974, in July of that year, he was part of the administrative committee of the Municipal House of Abrants, where he accompanied the consolidation of the growth of local democratic power from the beginning. His political intervention had national expression when he was elected a Member of the Constituent Assembly on 25 April 1975 and again in April 1976 as a Member of the first Legislative Assembly. however, he was always present in local policy, having been elected municipal deputy on 12 December 1976, position that he held until the last elections in 2013. In addition to its political-party activity, it was always an intervening citizen at the scale of its community, both in the associative movement and in business dynamization. An example of active citizenship, of democrat, of republican and layman, Manuel Pereira Dias was one of those personalities whose distinctive trait was affirmed by cordiality with all, starting with his political opponents, from whom he had grown over time to friendship, respect and consideration. To the entire family, the Assembly of the Republic addresses a vow of regret for the loss of this loved one and is associated with his pain, in the certainty that his example of life will not be forgotten. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u169	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote on vote No 248 / XII ( 4 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to vote No 250 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of former MP Miguel Galvão Teles ( PS, PSD, PCP, BE, The Greens and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u170	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last January 23, in Lisbon, Miguel Galvão Teles. Born in 1939, in the city of Porto, Miguel Galvão Teles came from young people to live in Lisbon, where he studied at the French School and at the Pedro Nunes High School and Passos Manuel. It would also be in the capital that would be licensed in Law in 1962 at the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, with 18 values, the best of its course, and where it would also complete the Complementary Course of Legal Sciences, in 1963. His brilliant academic course, which was translated, for example, in the award of the Gulbenkian Prize for Political-Economic Sciences in 1959, and in the Gulbenkian Prize for Historical-Legal Sciences in 1961, was crucial for his recruitment as an assistant to the Faculty of Law in 1963, where he was soon to be entrusted with the rule of the discipline of Constitutional Law in 1968. Its captivating and refreshing pedagogy is still remembered today by all who had the happiness of counting among their students. Later, between 1976 and 1977, he would join the restructuring committee of the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, once again contributing to the renewal and the democratic and academic normalization of his mother's soul. however, it was also in the field of his professional life, as a lawyer, that Miguel Galvão Teles left indelible marks in Portuguese legal life, contributing to the valorization of the profession and the formation of many generations of young lawyers. Lawyer since 1966, a well-known court of the Hague Permanent Court of Arbitration, Miguel Galvão Teles has been recognized several times by his peers at the national and international level, having been the first Portuguese grateful in 2006 with the Lifetime Achievement Award of Law, awarded in the framework of the Global Awards of Chambers & Partners. In addition to his memory as a jurist greater than the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century Portuguese, he is also in the collective memory and deserves recognition of his dedication to the public res and to the construction of democratic Portugal. Since the time of student interest in the civic life of the country, he has integrated the Catholic University Youth and, in the Academic Association of the School of Law of Lisbon, would belong to the fiscal council, in the direction led by Jorge Sampaio. He joined the 1962 academic strike, even participating in the organization of the defense of students, the target of the disciplinary process established in its heat. following 25 April, he participated in the drafting of the basic text of Law No 3 / 74, which defined the provisional power structure, incorporated several adhoc working groups which, on an informal and reserved basis, legally followed the self-determination procedures of Angola and Timor and supported the legal process of drawing up the so-called « military counterproposal » in the context of the negotiations of the 2. the MFA Pact / Parties. State Counsellor between 1982 and 1986, appointed by the President of the Republic for the first composition of the Council of State following its establishment in the constitutional review of 1982, managed to place its clear legal meaning in the service of the public interest, helping to guide the consolidation of our constitutional democracy in its founding years. To formally join the PS in February 1978, leaving the party in 1985, however, to enter the PRD, a party by which he would be elected to the Assembly of the Republic in the V legislature, where he contributed with his experience and qualified knowledge in the 1989 constitutional review process. He would return to the Socialist Party in 2002. in another civic plan, its intervention in the cause of the self-determination of Timor was more a mirror of the singular and virtuous combination of its dedication to public service with an outstanding legal argument capability, contributing decisively to the success of the international demand promoted by the Portuguese Republic to the International Court of Justice in the case of the exploitation of natural resources in the Sea of Timor, in the case of Timor Gap. The eclectism of his studies and the diversity of the areas of knowledge that he has cultivated, of Civil and Society Law, of the Philosophy of Law, of Constitutional Law and of Public International Law, are well demonstrated the greatness of his qualities as a jurist, always marked by a cultural and philosophical dimension of rare creativity and by the pragmatic recognition of the need for permanent link of the Right to reality and human and social relations that he aims to serve. in this sense, Miguel Galvão Teles combined, therefore, the two elements that characterize the great jurists: a vast theoretical and solid abstract reflection, combined with a practical dimension that allowed him the rigorous diagnosis of each problem and the construction of a solution as fair as possible. In addition to his intervention in the life of public institutions, Miguel Galvão Teles also cultivated a dedication in love with club association, having served as President of the General Assembly of the Sporting Club of Portugal between 1995 and 2006, beginning with the integration of the Leonino Council of the club. He was also Chairman of the Installing Commission of the Sport Court in 2011. Those who have deprived Miguel Galvão Teles are unanimous in the recognition not only of their remarkable academic, professional and civic journey, as well as of their very clear, intelligent and contagious sense of humor and, in particular, of the lack of their human, ethical and scientific qualities in public and civic debate. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its appreciation and gratitude for the civic and public service of Miguel Galvão Teles throughout his life, addressing to his family and friends his sincere condolences for the loss of a greater amount of contemporary Portuguese legal life. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u171	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 250 / XII ( 4. ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Keep going, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 249 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the occasion of the Holocaust Memory Day ( 27 January ) ( PS, CDS-PP and PSD ). The Secretary, Mrs Rosa Albertz, will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « following the Resolution adopted unanimously in 2010, the Assembly of the Republic recalls again this year the victims of the Holocaust. His death, but also his life, however short he was. And also the life of all those who survived the barbaric exterminium fields. The Holocaust Memory Day, in addition to honoring the memory of the victims, also seeks to prevent the forgetfulness and avoid historical revisionism through a formative and informative aspect addressed to the students of the schools and universities of Portugal. Because it is essential not to forget, but also because it is increasingly important to remember — even when this memory is painful — to prevent the atrocities of the Nazi regime from repeating themselves, we must be unanimous when we say: never again! The exact number of victims of the Nazi regime, within and outside the concentration camps, deprived of all their property and dignity, is still unknown today. Traders, teachers, scientists, musicians, writers, industrialists, public servants. Men, women and ordinary children who saw their lives destroyed and who were separated from their families, only because they were Jews. The Nazi regime, in its racial hysteria, did not spare all those who considered it "different": Jews, Democrats, anti-fascists, political opponents, Slavs, gypsies, persons with disabilities, homosexuals and witnesses of Jehovah. While the reasons for the Holocaust are still discussed today, there is one that is central to the brutality of ‘ the futility of evil. ’ Only this can explain the millions of dead, the cold organization of the fields and the silence that, for years, allowed the extermination of the Jewish people. 2015 marks another anniversary of the liberation by the Soviet army of the Auschwitz concentration camp, probably the best known of the Nazi death camps. Primo Levi, in one of his reports of his experience in Auschwitz, wrote: ‘They close among loaded wires thousands of different individuals of age, condition, origin, language, culture and habits and must, in this place, a constant, controlable, equal life regime for all and under all needs; it is more rigorous that an experimenter could establish what is essential and what is acquired in the behavior of the animal-man in the face of the struggle for life. ’ That was the way of life in this and other fields. A struggle for life, for survival, but only for those who, upon their arrival, were not immediately led to the gas chambers. This could have happened in the 20th century. It was possible to have millions of people murdered only because their political, ethical, religious or cultural choices were different. We are at a time when we are again confronted with the dangerous resurgence and propagation of fascist and neo-Nazi ideas and movements. The tribute of the Portuguese Parliament to the victims and their families is being paid in these days through a number of initiatives that started on 27 January. However, our effort is daily. Our fight to avoid forgetting is permanent. We will never forget these men, women and children. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u173	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 249 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] following all these vows of regret, I ask that we keep 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I welcome again Mr Prime Minister and the members of the Government. We shall continue with the votes. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 640 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extend the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and determine the reintegration of the Arsenal do Alfeite into the Marine Organic ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1231 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the extinction of the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and its reintegration into the Marine Organic (BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, a set of legislative proposals is followed by the initiative of the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly, on which they prevent the PSD's requirements from falling to their committees for 90 days without a vote. We shall then vote on the PSD's requirements for the proposed legislation to be set out: No 276 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a regional tax system ( ALRAM ), low to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration ; No 228 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National Strategy for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( ALRAM ), Lower to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, No 233 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child ( ALRAM ), down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, No 109 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Greater protection of maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ), low to the Social Security and Labour Commission ; paragraph 139 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Creation of the child's observatory ( ALRAM ), low to the Social Security and Labour Commission. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] These bills are lower than their respective committees. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 698 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring the right to access to goods of first need water and energy ( sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July — Law of the Essential Public Services) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 759 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills ( PACC) ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 758 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills and ensures the cancellation of its effects ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 164 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Seventh amendment to the Election Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and by Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, and 2 / 2012 of 14 June ( ALRAA ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall have to proceed with an electronic vote on this text, since, by constitutional and regulatory imposition, the absolute majority of Members are required for this vote in effective office. I would therefore ask the services to activate the electronic system. [[Pause.]] I remember you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic vote has a concurrent vote by those who have been raised and seated. Let us then proceed to the overall final vote on the text that I have already identified. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 189 votes in favour (PSD, PS, CDS-PP and BE) and 16 votes against (PCP and Os Verdes).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u174	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u175	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u176	Madam President, that is to say, I cannot register for this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u177	Be noted, Mr. Deputy. Please, Mr. Jacinto Serran.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u178	Madam President, it is to announce that I could not make the registration and the vote, but my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u179	It was also important to indicate. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Fernando Jesus, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u180	Madam President, it is to inform you that the system has not worked, but that my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u181	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Artur Rêgo, is it still for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u182	Mr President, it is for the same purpose and in the same way and to say that my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u183	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will continue with the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft law No 670 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change the composition of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on the proposal for a law No 265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the fourth Act No 8 / 2012 of 21 February which adopts the rules applicable to undertakings and late payments of public entities. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u184	Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u185	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Comarca do Porto, Central Instruction, 1. the Section, Case 251 1113.9TMPRT, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion authorising Mr Raúl de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-30.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will take place next Wednesday. In addition to having a period for political declarations, the projects of lein.o 752 / XII ( 4 ) will be discussed together in general. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ) and 755 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted medicinal products ( LDCs) by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ). The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 43 minutes.]]
