ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. I begin by apologizing for this slight delay. As everyone knows, the first item on the agenda consists of political statements, the order of which is as follows: CDS-PP, PCP, Left Block, PSD and PS. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take their places to create conditions for the debate. The first political statement, as I pointed out, is the CDS-PP, today by Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, to whom I give the floor. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, the country discussed whether Portugal would or would not conclude its adjustment programme in time and time. The country discussed whether or not it would do so with a cautious program or with the so-called 'clean out'. Many in the opposition seemed to want a second rescue in the form of a cautious programme and even spoke in « recessive spiral» or « galloping unemployment ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u3	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u4	One year later, in March 2015, this whole debate looks like a long-term past and the discussion is whether Portugal will grow by 1, 5 %, 1, 6 %, 1, 7 % or even 2 % for the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u6	A year later, what is discussed is whether economic growth will be satisfactory, better or even good. We have gone from systematically negative forecasts to systematically positive forecasts. What a difference, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Portugal today beats 14 consecutive sessions, records of the lowest interest in public debt, which is revealing the confidence of investors and the credibility of a country that was in pre-banking four years ago and which, with pain, is true, was capable. In view of this, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the opposition say? If interest is low, Portugal and Portuguese have no merit on it. The merit is that of an Italian President of the European Central Bank, Mário Draghi, who himself guaranteed liquidity in the markets as if the Greek debt interest was not above 10 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u8	But nothing better than listening to Mr Draghi about Portugal, and I will quote: « Portugal has reached the point where it is able to fully withdraw the benefits of the measures adopted in recent years. Portugal has rebuilt its financial stability, recovered market access, managed to finance itself, unemployment is falling and rapidly». Mr Draghi continues: « Portugal is one of the countries that is witnessing the recovery of the euro area ». Well, Madam President, Mr Draghi ultimately denies, in these words, the reality that the opposition speaks of its policies and that it does or seeks to do from itself. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know what we have had to do since 2011, since the rescue, since bankruptcy. We have never doubted that Portugal should have a single programme, a single rescue and a single troika. unlike others, we were not in sera corners, sera corners that wanted more time, more money and that would lead to more programs and more rescues. Austerity was not a choice, it was a consequence of bankruptcy and the moment the Socialist Party called the troika. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Despite the mermaid corners, with many sacrifices of the Portuguese, Portugal is leaving the troika cycle and gradually beginning a recovery cycle — recovery of its self-esteem; recovery of its international credibility and external perception; recovery of its internal confidence; recovery of its economy; recovery of Portuguese income. We know that there are still many challenges ahead, but we also know that, with the recovery of our sovereignty, the Portuguese will again decide the way they want to go. Mr. President, Portugal is today better than in 2011, I repeat, Portugal is today better than in 2011. The year 2015 will be of more solid economic growth than 1,5 %. Unemployment falls gradually and, after 17, 7%, it is now 13%. In addition, last February even recorded a homologous variation of less than 13, 8 %, with less than 96,640 unemployed. All regions of the country had a decrease in unemployment, with a trend that is uniform throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is capable and is doing its job. Another indicator that should not leave us indifferent is the creation of companies and entrepreneurship in Portugal. By the end of February 2015 more than 4500 companies have been created, which also represents a growth of 5, 7 % over the year 2014. Portugal is capable and is doing its job. In 2015, the economy grows, private consumption rises, exports remain as an engine of the Portuguese economy and unemployment declines. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Draghi is right — Portugal has rebuilt its financial stability, recovered market access, financed itself and unemployment fell sustainably. But António Costa is also right — Portugal is today better than in 2011 not only because Portugal is capable and is doing its job, but also because it does not want to return to the 2011 collapse. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u9	To ask questions, the honourable Members signed up. Deputies João Galamba, PS, Antonio Filipe, PCP, José Luís Ferreira, the Greens, Nuno Reis, the PSD, and Pedro Filipe Soares, the Left Block. The CDS informed the Bureau that Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila will answer two questions first and then three. To ask questions, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I find it fascinating to see the majority, after diabolising for a long time all and any intervention by the ECB, now to comment on the upward review of the Portuguese and European GDP resulting from the ECB's measures. You are here to say that the data confirm the effectiveness of policies. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I have a lot of respect for you, I know that you are a serious Member and therefore I would like to ask you a question and that at least Mr Lobo d’Ávila tried to answer seriously, which the majority banks have not done in recent times.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u11	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u12	Mr President, I am talking about a government and a majority who are diabolical of private consumption growth above GDP, who say that these growths are unsustainable and are at the heart of the structural problems of the Portuguese economy and that, on the contrary, the Portuguese economy must grow on the basis of net exports and that net external demand must be positive and the driving force of the Portuguese economy— listen well to your parliamentary leader and I count on a serious answer to the questions I am asking you— explain to us how Mr. It is that there is now a high-level review of GDP and what is revised to high is consumption, but net exports are reviewed below. As Mr President has said very well, exports remain, but imports are up-to-date. However, if net exports in 2014 were already negative, if exports now remain and if imports are reviewed upwards, it means that net exports are even more negative than in 2014. That is, if our growth in 2014 involved a 30% external balance degradation in 2015, according to the data that has now come here to celebrate, the thing will be worse. What about the investment, which has been pointed out as the key variable in the recovery of the Portuguese economy? Tell us what happened to investment, read gross fixed capital formation, in the data revealed today by Banco de Portugal. It's just that they were checked down. That is, we do not only have an investment that fell 30 % — the public investment fell 60 %, in 2014 it grew only 2, 3 %, after falling, if I am not mistaken 6, 8 % in the previous year, and this year there is again anemic growth — as was revised below by the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u13	Would you like to conclude, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u14	Mr President, if you do not want to come here to make proclamations without any basis in reality, I would ask you, frankly, to comment on these data, because they are of the greatest importance for us to understand what has changed against 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u15	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u16	I will finish, Madam President. It is that the only thing that has changed against 2011 and that has justified the upward review of the GDP of the whole European Union, including Portugal, is the quantitativeeasing of the European Central Bank, in which private consumption is revised upwards everywhere, but the investment crisis, which is the biggest problem of the European Union and in particular in Portugal, is reviewed downwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u17	You've been speaking for almost 4 minutes, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u18	So, honourable Member, waiting for you to have a serious discussion based on data and not on proclamations, very sincerely, I would like to help to elucidate this paradox: how is it that an economy that is reviewed at high in the variables that the government has always said were negative can be proof of the success of government policies? I have a lot of difficulty in realizing that this is the case, and I am sure that you will agree. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the benches rightly complain when there is excessive use of time on the part of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau has no binding power over the Members and therefore I have no other way but to draw the attention that they have exceeded time. The next question is PCP. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u20	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, comes here once again to repeat that recurring speech which we have heard from the parties of the majority and which obviously has as its sole motivation that the elections are at the door and that you try to repeat until exhaustion, a thousand times, in the hope that your repetition will make true what is clearly not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u22	We understand that you can make use of some statements by Mr Draghi, Mrs Lagarde or others from the IMF who are after all looking for what you are looking for, which is to justify these austerity policies they have imposed over the past few years. No one was expecting the institutions of the troika or the parties of the majority to recognize what the Portuguese recognize, that is to say: "Well, after all, the policies we imposed on the country have failed and the country is much worse than it was before the imposition of these austerity measures".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u23	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u24	We were not expecting you to say that or that Mr. Draghi or Mrs. Lagarde would come to say that and therefore you repeat the same speech. Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, what you said here will tell the Portuguese and then you will see the answers you hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u26	Go tell the Portuguese that they have lost their jobs that the country is better now than it was a few years ago or go tell the young people that they have not found a job in Portugal and that they have to emigrate to return because the country is better and you will soon see what these young people have to tell you. With regard to the institutions, you invoke the reports and statements made on the same days and ignore what is done on the odd days. Because, also from these institutions, there is no lack of statements that Portugal is slowing down the pace of reforms and that what is needed is to further restrict the Portuguese economy and the rights of Portuguese people, to further simplify labour relations, to impose enhanced surveillance on the Portuguese economy, which means the imposition of more austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u28	Obviously we have reports for everything. But what is a fact is that you have made the country, economically and socially, fall down the stairs below and now, trying to rebalance and climb a step up, you come to say: 'This is better now than before we fall'! Obviously, the country is much worse, because people do not exist to satisfy markets. It is not possible, it is not acceptable to impose a policy of impoverishment, reduction of purchasing power, destruction of people's lives to satisfy the market, as if the market were a deity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u29	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u30	I will finish, Madam President. It's with that logic that you have to finish once and for all. The markets were created by people, not the people who were created to serve the markets. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u31	To reply, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u32	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. João Galamba and Mr.António Filipe for the questions they asked. Starting by responding to Mr. João Galamba, I would like to thank you for the fascination you showed with the statement I made here...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u33	What a fascination!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u34	... and tell him that, in fact, I have neither the capacity nor the idea of myself which he tried to transmit here. That is why, without prejudice to that, I would like to say that I will try to answer the questions you put here, noting that you have just said nothing about the statements made by the President of the European Central Bank, which is always curious because these statements answer many Members of this House and I believe that one of them is the Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u35	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u36	For a number of well-known statements that have already left us here for several years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u37	So what he says is right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u38	Mr President, I would like to reply if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u39	I'm listening, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u40	I would also like to tell you that we have always told you that there are three absolutely fundamental axes. A first axis that passes through the investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u41	There's no! He's down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u42	... and, of course, Mr Deputy will recognise that 2014 has been the first year with greater growth since 1999,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u43	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u44	No, it was 2003!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u45	... with a growth of 5, 2 %, which is important to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u47	You will also not fail to recognize, as a second fundamental point, the increase in exports, which have over the past few years exceeded marks every year, so remember on record. And on private consumption, Mr. Member, I must say that we have never had any prejudice about private consumption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u48	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u49	...we had, yes, against the accumulation of excessive external deficits permanent. We had, yes, something the Socialist Party couldn't fight. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr President, it is unfortunate that the opposition does not recognize, nor does it know how to recognise, what are good indicators. And they are not good indicators for the government, they are good indicators for Portugal and for Portuguese. Mr António Filipe has used a number of statements here and I agree with some of them, but I would like to say that it is good for the Communist Party to recognise that only with full sovereignty, with a country that is not under protection, is that we can choose the paths we want to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u50	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u51	And my political statement has exactly to do with that, Mr President. After three years of bailout, after three years of bankruptcy, Portugal can again choose paths, which it could not do in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u53	To understand the circumstances in which we live in 2015 and, above all, to recognize the effort that the Portuguese have made over these years, it is necessary to recognize the situation that Portugal faced in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u54	You've already noticed that you want to use this as an alibi!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u55	Mr President, in fact there is one thing that is not compatible, which is to talk about reducing purchasing power and increasing private consumption. As I said here, it is good that there is an increase in private consumption, but we cannot at the same time accumulate permanent excessive deficits, as happened in the past. [[PCP protests.]] Portugal is recovering, Portugal has recovered its internal trust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u56	Not with the cuts in wages, which should have ended!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u57	... Portugal has recovered its external credibility and the Portuguese are slowly, gradually, recovering their incomes. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u58	That's in your fantasy country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u59	They're INE data!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u60	There is an appeal to the Bureau of Mr. João Galamba. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u61	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u62	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u63	Madam President, I would like to ask that it be distributed to Mr Lobo d’Ávila a copy of the document where the forecasts made today by Banco de Portugal and widely referred by Mr Deputies, which made a false statement here and that the CDS has always been repeating, which is the idea that investment has grown 5, 2 %. As is mentioned today on page 1 of the Banco de Portugal report, investment increases by 2, 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u64	You are identified, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u65	Therefore, for the sake of a debate based on data rather than on the mythology of the majority, I asked for a very simple thing: whenever the CDS talked about data, it respected reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u66	Mr Nuno Magalhães, do you intend to use the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u67	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u68	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u69	Madam President, we in the CDS do not have the genius that Mr Galamba thinks he has, but we certainly have the character that he seems to notice. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to say that we will accept the distribution of this document, but we will also have the document distributed where it proves that, with the accumulation of the stock, investment in Portugal, as Mr. Minister of Economy said, and well, and has already explained to you...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u70	But that's not investment! That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u71	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u72	Would you like to conclude, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u73	Madam President, I cannot continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u74	I was asking the ladies. Members who would let Mr Nuno Magalhães finish. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u75	This isn't an RGA!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u76	And as Mr Galamba, with an evangelical patience, explained to Mr. João Galamba, and just as we all had the opportunity to explain, there is indeed a growth of 5, 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u78	So, Madam President, it is to restore the truth, because genius each knows about his own; of character, we have our own. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u79	The agenda item seems to be exhausted. Mr. João Galamba asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u80	Madam President, it's for honor's sake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u81	Is it to defend the honour of the honourable Member or the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u82	Of myself, Madam President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u83	Mr President, you can defend yourself at the end of the debate, which is how the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic send, if you do not mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u84	So, the President does not allow me to have a two-second intervention now and ask me to do it at the end, is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u85	Mr President, the rules must have a reason to be. I'd rather I did it at the end of the political statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u86	Madam President, I just wanted to say that on Mr Nuno Magalhães' character I am not talking, I am just talking about data. [[Protests of the CDS-PP, having Mr Artur Rêgo beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]] But if this defense of honor, in which I limit myself to saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u87	It's over, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u88	...that on the character of Mr Nuno Magalhães I am not speaking and that I am merely talking about data, I will do so at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u89	Of course. Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u90	Madam President, it is to ask if I can explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u91	I didn't give Mr. João Galamba an opportunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u92	It didn't, but it happened. But, on behalf of the good conduct of the work and, above all, of the respect of the President, I will say nothing more. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u93	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. We have three more entries from Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ask questions. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u94	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, said that the adjustment programme was fulfilled and that the big question was whether or not we were going to have a second rescue. No, Mr, that was not the point. The question was whether by the end of this period, the protégé, which even led Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister, Paulo Portas, to put the watch back, the government would or would not return to the Portuguese anything in the name of the adjustment program was subtracted. The question was whether, when the troika was gone, the government — now, in the full use of its sovereignty, because it was no longer under the protectorate, the watch that Mr. Vice-First Minister had set back had stopped — would return to the Portuguese anything, on behalf of the adjustment programme, was presented provisionally. I am referring to the cuts in wages, but also to cuts in pensions; I am referring to the brutal rate of increase in labour income taxes; I am referring to the cuts in social benefits — family allowance, unemployment allowance to which, as you know, Mr President, more than half of the unemployed do not have access. Therefore, the question was whether or not the government would or would not restore what was subtracted on behalf of the adjustment programme. The troika went away, but apparently little or nothing was returned. He then said that the country was better than in 2011. The question is this: is it better for whom? After all, who's better? We look at the economy and it's in the tracks. We look at the levels of unemployment and, even with the emigration and the tricks used by the government, to put interns so that they do not contain for unemployment statistics, even so we have historical unemployment rates, we have poverty—we just look at the INE data — to reach absolutely shocking limits, because it has not only increased, as the poorer have become. And then, Mr. Debt, the public debt. Public debt, since the takeover of this government to this day, has increased EUR 50 billion! So, honourable Member, is the country better for whom? I don't even talk about wages anymore, because we have to compare how things were in 2011 and how they are today. How were we at salary level? How were we at the tax level? How were we at the level of public services? We can't conclude it's better. Maybe it's better for some. My question is this: after all, is it better for whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u96	To put questions, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u97	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the political statement you have just made and recognizing that it allows you to see the same wisdom that we have already seen in the exercise of other public functions, particularly in front of the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration. I want here, on behalf of my bench, to leave a word of recognition for the capacity he has demonstrated as ruler of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u99	How flattering!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u100	I also want to say that, in his political statement, it was very clear what the Portuguese were achieving over these almost four years and what was the reality of the country—and that, moreover, it is internationally recognized by the representatives of the most different reference bodies—when on 6 April 2011 the Minister of State and the Treasury of the Saints recognized publicly not to have any money (and we are not afraid of the word 'coffers') for more than three months to deal with salaries of public servants, social benefits and other State duties and obligations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is important to remember this reality, because it contrasts sharply with what is today the reality of the country. But you said, recently, in response to one of the opposition questions, that today we have at least the ability to choose the path and the policies we want to follow. And that ability can be decisive in the future. However, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila invited him for an exercise: if, eventually, this country had not been able to follow the recipe of the troika for three of these almost four years, if it had eventually followed the revenue of ‘more time and more money’ or even the revenue of debt restructuring, which also happened in another European country during this period, what would have happened to Portugal? Sometimes, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, we have witnessed some statements by opposition politicians, particularly by congratulating on what Greece is achieving, and in fact when we make an assessment of what is happening out there, in addition to the amendment and exchange of the words « troica », « programme» and « austerity », we see no results. But I would like to leave you two questions, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u101	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u102	The first is whether this perception that what is happening is not just an exchange of words and, in fact, something different is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u103	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u104	And the second is whether the big problem of this government is communication or not. It's just that if the problem was words, it would have been easier for everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u105	I would ask you to conclude for the third time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u106	Eventually, if the problem is just a matter of words, it would have been easier, in these three years of troika, to have exchanged the words « programme », « austerity » and « sacrifices », and the opposition would probably be weaving praise to the results of this government today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u107	Your policy is not a semantic problem! It's more than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u108	To put questions, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u109	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I should like to tell you that the fact that we have been accustomed to by the majority is, in fact, the election party, which often tells us that the country is going better, forgetting in practice the results of governance and forgetting mainly the lives of people. I ask you a very direct set of questions. So, the country, now with more unemployment, is better now than it was when you arrived at the government? Oh, my God! So, can you tell us that the National Health Service is better now, when it almost collapsed this winter, as we saw in all the country's emergencies, with the layoffs, with people who were desperate because they didn't have access to essential care? Oh, my God! So, come to tell us that education is better now, when, this year, three years after this government took office, we had the worst start of a school year that there is memory? Oh, my God! Mr. Member, what country is he talking about? Oh, my God! Where did you come from with your political statement to present this wonderful world to us? It's just that, from Portugal, in 2015, it's not sure! It is that in Portugal, in 2015, the result of this government's policy, we have unemployment as there is no memory, we have an emigration that only compares with the 1960s, when we lived in dictatorship, we have a destruction of the economy, by the government that you too were part of, which has no possible comparison with the record in the last decades, we have a retreat of decades in the country's wealth. And you tell us everything's all right, that now, yes, we're getting it back? Oh, my God! Mr President, this explanation and this political statement is only understandable, so because we are in the months of elections and the CDS is making an attempt here to prove that it is alive, that it exists and that that party of the taxpayer still has something to say. But then, speaking of the taxpayer's party, I ask you directly, honourable Member: are taxes now more citizens' friends than they were in the past? I even ask you a very direct question: do you remember when, a few months ago, you talked, on behalf of the CDS, about the return of the overtax of the IRS and said it was possible? So I ask you, honourable Member, how is it possible, when we see that, on the IRS side, revenues are still falling? Tell us, after all, it was really propaganda, wasn't it, Mr? By the way, this is the great specialty of the CDS: propaganda. And that was once again the action we had here in your political statement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u110	To reply, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u111	Madam President, I would like to thank you very calmly for the various questions that have been put to me by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Starting with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, it is interesting that, in his speech, contrary to what happened in the last debates we have done here, he does not speak of Greece. That doesn't stop being curious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u112	I can talk if you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u113	Mr. Deputy speaks of an election party. Mr. Member, the numbers we have presented here are INE, the ECB and the Banco de Portugal, not the CDS. In fact, they are not the numbers of the Left Block, but they are always objective and concrete. Mr President, in his request for clarification, he speaks of a very different set of matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u114	About the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u115	...and the question of being better. Mr. Deputies, I believe we are better, no doubt. Ask if we are better at the National Health Service. Mr President, were we better when we owed EUR 3000 million in the short term to suppliers? Were we better when Portugal couldn't pay wages or pensions? Were we better in 2011 when we were two months away from paying salaries in the Public Administration? Sir, no, we weren't better! We don't miss bankruptcy here. I note that the honourable Member, perhaps, misses some of the bankruptcy. He's also talking about trust. Mr, consumer confidence rates have improved for the first time since 2002 and consumer confidence rates have improved since 2008. Mr President, today we are, in fact, better. There is much to be done, there are many challenges to be overcome — it is a fact, in fact, said in my political statement, that are challenges for which we are all called. And as it is obvious, these are challenges that we have to overcome on a day-to-day basis. In fact, we are much better now than we were in 2011. Mr. José Luís Ferreira made a statement here that, I confess, I have some difficulty in understanding. The honourable Member tells us that the existence of a second rescue was not at stake. Mr. Member, this is almost like that viewer of a football game that, when the game is over, says that there was not even the possibility of a balanced game, because you already knew the result at the start. Mr. Deputie, in 2012, 2013 and still in 2014, there were many people in this House, starting with Mr. Members, who said that the existence of a second rescue was inevitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u117	The expression used by various opposition Members was that of the 'inevitability of a second rescue' and that it needed more money and more time. And the truth is, time has come to refute all your theses and all your theories. Mr Deputy, in 2011 the rescue was EUR 78 billion—is the price of bankruptcy and a set of policies that have been followed over several years. If we do not learn from this past, we will certainly not be warning about the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u118	I would like to tell you that at this moment in 2015 the government has already achieved and is able to start returning income to Portuguese. He achieved (and I give him two examples that we have already talked about abundantly) the rise of the national minimum wage, which had been frozen by a socialist government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u119	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u120	... or the end of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity by the ESC, also created by a socialist government. And, Mr, we are returning salaries to the Public Administration at 20 % per year, as the Government had undertaken, also in this Parliament. Mr. Member, it is a difficult path, it is a gradual path, but it is a path of recovery of the country and of recovery of our self-esteem, which is fundamental to our confidence and hope in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u122	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. It has more time than the time of each question, but it is time to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u123	I shall finish, Madam President, by thanking Mr Nuno Reis for his words and for his questions. I would like to tell you that, from my point of view, you have an essential point. It is that, in order to be able to recognize the reality that we have today, we need to understand the path that we had to make and the reality that we had in 2011. This is fundamental so that we do not fall back into the mistakes of the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u124	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u125	... we will not fall again into the avenue of facilitation and, above all, to know that Portugal is capable, with the effort of the Portuguese and with the right path that this government has sought to follow. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u126	The political declaration by the CDS-PP this afternoon is concluded here. The next political declaration is the PCP. Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country which the Government idealizes and which it presents in its political discourse does not exist. With elections in view, the Government strives to hide reality and sometimes presents a country that the Portuguese do not recognize on its day-to-day basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u129	They hide the Real Country, on the eve of elections, to see if the Real Country forgets the evil it has received. They're hiding under the carpet problems that will appear wrong pass the elections. To this end, the so-called 'external aid' continues. The Portuguese who wait and despair in the emergencies, who have to emigrate so that others more exploited, more badly treated, will perform their duties, who have seen their purchasing power drastically reduced and who have had their wages and pensions cut, listen, astonished, the Governor of the European Central Bank says that Portugal is an example of success. Those who have integrated the troika and imposed on the country a program to which the PCP has rightly called a pact of aggression are the only ones who now make a positive assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u131	As if the person making the diagnosis, choosing and applying the therapy had enough exemption to tell us that after all, the treatment was wrong. The government hides the problems to create an illusion. Fortunately for the country, this illusion will not escape the PSD and CDS defeat. As the government is already socially and politically defeated, the parties that support it will also be defeated in the next elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u133	There are many examples of the discrepancies between the country invented by the government and the country lived by the Portuguese and we want to highlight here two of these examples: agriculture and tourism. In the case of agriculture, the Minister's political discourse is no longer addressed to the agricultural sector, which knows and feels the problems and difficulties, but to the large number of Portuguese, far from the reality of the rural world, trying to convince them that agriculture is a success in Portugal. It will be a success for agribusiness, for large industrial caricing agriculture — which receive millions in public support (it is recalled that only 60 receive as much as 120 000 smaller) — export oriented and often associated with immigrant and cheap labour. The agriculture that produces for domestic consumption and proximity, which has the potential to fix people in the territory, fighting depopulation, this, goes through the greatest difficulties. The problems of prices paid to the producer, with milk sold at 30 cents/ kg or potato sold at 5 cents/ kg, and the cases in which the productions are delivered without any price, such as grape and fruit. The false success of the government's action is grueling. In the case of milk, whose quotas will end at the end of this month, this end will be dramatic! The effect is felt from the beginning of the so-called soft landing, with the increase in production in the countries of northern Europe, in view of the opportunity — for them, but not for us — of the end of milk quotas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u135	Portugal can go from Country self-sufficient to strong milk importer. This with the destruction of farms and jobs. Agricultural confederations, those that are not confused with the Ministry, are very critical in relation to Community support programmes. There are a number of those who say that the new RDP clearly distinguishes between the large farmers, who are benefited, and the small ones, who will get further and further away from the support. This is nothing new. This is a government that is next to the big interests and against small and medium-sized producers. It is the government that took the management of rice dryers to renders to deliver them to large owners; that it wants to end with the House of Douro, as representative of the durian farm, to deliver it to the control of the marketing and the CAP; that it pursues and strips land to state-renderers in the Macados Heritage, saying that they will go to the land exchange and then hand them over to the former great owner; that it obliges small producers to collect themselves, but does not want to impose limits to the large distribution. This is in a framework where the Ministry is fully dismantled and accumulates delays in payments to forest slag teams and animal health through the OPP ( livestock producer organisations ). For these and other reasons family farming will carry out a fight action tomorrow, which we have already welcomed. These are the options of the government that create problems and do not want to deal with solutions. The CFP has solutions and has also recently presented a legislative package with 40 recommendations and more than 60 proposals with solutions to the concrete problems created by right-wing policy. In the area of tourism too, it is increasingly evident that the government is trying to hide problems with much propaganda. Behind the speech of the best tourist year of all time, the reality of regional inequality of success is hidden; the inability of more than 60 % of housing and catering companies with financial debt generate income before taxes enough to pay interest; the more than 25 000 jobs lost in the last year; the number of workers to receive national minimum wage almost twice the national average. This is why workers in the sector have fought in Porto, in Braga, in Lisbon, in Madeira and this week at Clube Praia da Rocha, in Algarve, with desperate situations such as that of the worker with late wages that ran at the premises of the enterprise. This is the success of the government! There is simply more profit, no concern who accumulates them, no concern if wages are delayed, no concern that those who actually produce wealth — workers — have to run to draw attention to their despair. This government does not serve the country or the interests of the majority of Portuguese. PSD and CDS may well want to paint the pink country, which the pink is not the color that gives it the best. The solution is not to delude the problems, it is to confront them with a policy that solves them. The solution is to produce more to owe less, produce more and value work because it is the one that effectively creates wealth, valuing small and medium-sized farmers because the less farmers there are more concentrated is the wealth produced, promoting the fair price paid to producers, making the national interest prevail and defending the national milk sector against the taxes of Brussels. In order to have the best tourist years of always wages must be valued and must be up to date, wealth created must be distributed fairly by workers, precariousness must be eradicated, working conditions must be improved and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs must be defended. Those who refuse to acknowledge the problems of the country and insist on the illusion that the country is in the right way and that the difficulties are overcome only intend to perpetuate the right-wing policy, with these or other protagonists. But the time of this government and the right policy is more than exceeded. Solutions and alternatives exist and the CFP has proposals for this alternative policy. It is time to build and put them into practice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u136	To ask questions, Mr President. Deputies Pedro Lynce, from PSD, Miguel Freitas, from PS, Helena Pinto, from the Left Block, and Abel Baptista, from CDS-PP. You have informed the Bureau that you will answer one by one, so you have the floor, first of all, Mr Pedro Lynce.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u137	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, I begin by complimenting you. It is always a pleasure to be able to debate with the honourable Member, although, frankly, it seems to me that he has mixed a lot in two sectors in which, I think, the government has been quite right: tourism and agriculture. However, as I could not cease to be, there may be differences. In any case, I will address a very important issue, which is that of milk quotas. We cannot answer everything, but to make this situation very clear, I will say that your message was probably in relation to the Socialist Party, since, as you know, it was the Socialist Party that, in 2008, through the favourable vote of the Portuguese Government, ended the quotas. He's probably remembered that. I also remind you that in 2002 the then Minister for Agriculture, Sevinate Pinto, fought for this not to happen. But, finally, the situation we have today is this. What happened, however? Having been defeated in Brussels, what did the government do to resolve this milk situation? Mr Deputy, I recall: implementation of compulsory contracts; aid related to milk, as you know; organization of production — today, in the new Community frameworks, the organization of production — is essential; strengthening of the structures for self-regulation. I draw your attention to the fact that in future inter-branch organisations are very important and also the most equitable distribution through the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ). I would also like to mention two aspects which seem very important to me. We are looking at the future and this is essentially due to two situations in which the Portuguese Government has shown great momentum in relation to Brussels. I am referring, on the one hand, to the European Observatory on the Milk Market, that there is a preventive mission to prevent very large imbalances, and, on the other hand, as you also know, in terms of safety, we are still fighting for some fundamental changes, namely a regulatory mechanism that avoids some more difficult situations in relation to smaller producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u138	I would like to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u139	I would also like to say that the positions of the Communist Party are incompatible with the European Union and it was necessary for the honourable Member to say here clearly that the Communist Party wants to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u140	We want to drink national milk!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u141	That's the big problem. We want to remain in the European Union and it is time for the Communist Party to say clearly here in the plenary that it wants to leave the European Union. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u142	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u143	Mr President, Mr Pedro Lynce, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Indeed, the CFP presents two themes in its political statement, which, in our view, have a lot in common: there is a lot of propaganda around them and the propaganda made by the government conceals a national reality that has nothing to do with the speech and which, in many cases, is dramatic. He recalled the responsibility of the PS with regard to agriculture, particularly with regard to milk. I do not rule out that responsibility. In fact, the CFP, whenever necessary, recalls who has responsibilities in relation to the different matters. But you came to the government almost four years ago and I didn't see them back in relation to the PS's positions on a set of matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u145	If you are very concerned and acknowledge that PS solutions were not adequate, you now have the opportunity to vote in favour of the draft resolution of the CFP on the matter of milk and to recommend to the Government that it defends the national interest, above all. Finally, he referred to two matters worth remembering. The first one is the PARCA. First, the Government denied the problem of distribution and the suffocation it made to national production. It creates the PARCA, but it was a « mountain that gave birth to a mouse », because there were two laws that, in practice, have no application, have no supervision, and what happens is that prices continue to be suffocated in the large distribution. So this is a good example of a measure that the government has taken to try to deceive reality, not actually solving the problem. The other issue that you have mentioned and which is worth mentioning is that of the organization. So, you are saying that the government now wants to prepare the organization of the dairy sector, when it is recognized that the dairy sector is one of the most organized in the country and in Europe and this organization does not allow it to deal with the problems that exist? Again recently, in a response to the CFP Parliamentary Group, the Ministry of Agriculture said that it would have to review the organisational system. So you've been betting on the milk sector organization system in cooperatives and now you want to review the system for producer organisations? After all, the fact that there is no direction is very bad for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u146	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u147	I will finish, Madam President. Mr President, what the CFP's Parliamentary Group defends above all is the national interest and you, in relation to the European Union, have shown neither the ability nor the will to defend the national interest. You lack the interest that is imposed on you from outside. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u148	The next question is PS. Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u149	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, we fully recognize the gap between the government's speech and reality and we also perceive, through Mr. Pedro Lynce's intervention, these returns to the past to justify the absence of concrete policies to solve problems. This is the starting point for the set of considerations and questions I have to put. We know that this government has done nothing but close services in rural areas, and the Ministry of Agriculture is a good example of this. Today we have a Ministry which, in the regions, has only empty rooms and closed doors and we also have a degradation of the services that led to the delay of Community funds. On this issue, we want to make it clear that we have a terrible delay in the Rural Development 2020 programme: by the end of this year, half of the measures listed there will not be implemented, i.e. they will not be approving and making payments. Therefore, two years of delay at PDR 2020. This is the result of the degradation of regional agricultural services. Then we also have inadequate policies in agricultural rejuvenation, cutting half the premium on young farmers, but also through a transitional period that did not respond to the specific issues of young people, 1300 young farmers will lose funding in the transition period. There are 1300 young farmers who have not seen their projects approved in the transitional period and who will be highly penalized by this government. There is still the issue of milk quotas. It is true that the Government has made an effort to find some solutions, but the solutions that the Government has found are insufficient. We want to leave a challenge to the PSD and the government: the measures they have for the dairy sector are insufficient, more measures are needed and the PS has concrete proposals to present in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u150	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u151	Finally, adding the issue of tourism to rural development, we have a programme of diversification of activities that goes only up to €100,000 per project. Do you know that in the previous programme, the average investment in rural tourism programmes was €175,000? It means that we now only have up to €100,000 to make investments in the rural tourism programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u152	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u153	I would like to know your position and that of your parliamentary group on these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u154	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u155	Mr President, Mr Miguel Freitas, I should like to begin by thanking you for the points you have raised. He said that the government would like to justify mistakes with the previous government. In fact, this is a recurring practice in Portugal. The former Government also justified errors with the former Governments of the PSD and the CDS. I must say that when you talk about each other, we can agree on these issues. You make this reference, but in practice the Portuguese will stop drinking national milk if nothing is done. This is the real problem. Therefore, the CFP has a draft resolution on milk, in which one of the proposals aims to guarantee the price of milk paid for production. at this time, many farms are working below the viability limit of the farms, and this cannot happen. So they don't last long. That is why in a few years the dairy farms in Portugal increased from 70 000 to only 7000. With regard to tourism, our perspective is that there can be no tourism without a dynamic country and, in the case of rural tourism, without a dynamic rural world. These matters are all related. Finally, I would like to speak of a matter which you have addressed and which is a serious problem: the dismantling of the services of the Ministry of Agriculture. at present, there is EUR 115 million of public expenditure already made but to be validated, because services do not have the capacity to respond. This is in March. Forest slag teams have delays in their transfers, young farmers, despite being a transitional year, have seen more than 1000 applications from PRODER to the PDR, which are now applied in the light of the new rules and many of them will have to go back. The ICNF does not have the means to monitor the algae. As regards the applications of the managing entities of the ZIF ( forest intervention zones ), which have been submitted, a decision should have been taken a month ago and not yet taken. Animal health in February still owed 60 % of the previous year and all this because the services of the Ministry have been dismantled. Let me tell you, honourable Member, that the fact is that the special mobility system has had a particular focus in the Jaime Silva Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u156	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u157	I will finish, Madam President. I remember that in my region and in my county, the workers were put on mobility, being on an inheritance that was managed by the ICNF, and there was no one to feed the goats and the sheep, from one moment to the other. Therefore, you have as much responsibility in this area as the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u158	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u159	Mr President, Mr João Ramos, made an important intervention, characterizing the agricultural sector. I would like to mention two issues which, I think, are central, important and elucidating on the balance sheet of this government, more specifically the Minister of Assumption Cristas, who is in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture. The first question concerns milk quotas. We have seen this milk quota process listening to two positions: the position of the CDS, which says that it wants the replacement of milk quotas and that that is what it is working for ; and the position of the PSD, which says that if the replacement is not achieved at least there must be financial compensation. Well, Mr. Deputies, no replacement, no compensation. This is the Assumption Crystal balance sheet. Milk producers are therefore harmed, with a particular impact on the Autonomous Region of the Azores, as we well know. The other issue I would like to mention was addressed by Mr Ramos in his political statement: the prices paid to the producer, which is indeed a key issue in the agricultural sector. Let us then speak of the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ), so praised by the Minister for Assumption Cristas, PSD and CDS. After all, PARCA, which was supposed to have two meanings, has only one meaning: to serve the large distribution and to crush the margins of the producers. That's what we've checked out. This is because the government refuses to do what needs to be done. While the government does not accept that it will have to set some prices to production, everything serves only one sector: the large distribution. Mr Ramos, these are two central issues of agricultural policy, from our point of view, which I would like you to comment on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u160	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u161	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I thank you for the questions you have left me. Indeed, the problem of the relationship between distribution and production is serious. There are studies carried out by various ministries, including the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture, which clearly point out how value distribution is done along the chain, referring that production is only 10 % and distribution with more than 70 % of the value it is produced, resulting in the end of production in our country. But that is certainly the intention of distribution. Mrs Pinto's request for clarification also refers to another issue, which has already been addressed here, which is the idea that there is a set of taxes in Brussels on which we can do nothing. I support the draft resolution which the CFP has already submitted, to which I have mentioned earlier, to say that, for example, as a first step, we recommend to the Government that efforts be made with the European institutions to maintain a market regulation framework. Can't we tell the European Union what we want to defend the national sector? I don't think this has implications. Another PCP recommendation aims to monitor the speculative activity of food distribution chains, imposing limits on the use of white marks. Can't we monitor speculative activity? Does any European Union rule prevent us from doing this? In addition, the CFP also recommends that the prices to be established in contracts be guaranteed. In addition, contracts that exist for other sectors of activity. As far as this is concerned, the European Union does not prevent us from taking any further steps. I would like to conclude by saying that there are a number of important issues which could move forward if there were political will, but unfortunately there has not been. I recall that the dairy sector is an important sector of national production, especially in the center and north of the country, is a sector in which the country is self-sufficient and may be at risk, with consequences for the number of farms and the jobs associated with it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u162	To request clarification, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u163	Mr President, Mr Ramos, welcome once again to the debate on agriculture and this time on tourism. Mr President, there are some questions I would like to ask you, because you have probably forgotten to read all the information regarding the agriculture sector and the tourism sector. We must also have forgotten that there are issues that are not today and that many of them have been corrected. I begin by defending the national interest. I know that it is sometimes not consensual in this House that the national interest has been defended by this government, contrary to what the previous governments have done. Mr Freitas, this is not a comparison, nor is it to draw the previous governments, nor is it a return to the past — indeed, a return to the past is what we do not want — but we must compare. The defence of national interest is, in recent years, Portugal has not been obliged to return money to the European Union, and it has to do because of previous losses of around EUR 400 million, although we are still contesting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u165	The defence of national interest is to carry out all of the PRODER's money that we have the right, in its entirety, to remain all the money in Portugal and not to be returned. The defence of national interest and of small agricultural producers is to place rustic IMI in urban facilities for agricultural activity. This is defense of national interest. The defence of the national interest is to pay to farmers in due time the money they are entitled to. Mr President, if you do not want to exceed the time available, allow me to talk to you about tourism. Probably he did not read the latest INE report, which he just left, which says that in January in Portugal approximately 2 million sleepings were recorded. There was therefore a growth in the same month of the previous year of 13, 4 % and 15, 5 % compared to December, contributing to it countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Brazil, Ireland, Italy, the United States and Belgium. If tourism has been constantly growing, if it is an important activity for a large majority of the Portuguese population, how do you say that tourism is in crisis? There are concrete situations, as you mentioned, and I express my solidarity to all those workers who have late wages. But the blame is not for government policy, it is for many entrepreneurs who are currently in bankruptcy and must be penalized and tried in court. Therefore, it is not a public policy activity that puts workers in this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u166	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u167	I shall finish by asking two very specific questions, one of which has already been asked by my colleague from the PSD, Pedro Lynce, but to whom Mr João Ramos did not have an opportunity to answer. First: whether or not the CFP will leave the European Union and call into question European support for agricultural activity?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u168	We want to drink national milk!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u169	Second: is tourism in Portugal or is it not an important mechanism to defend national interest? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u170	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u171	Madam President, Mr. Abel Baptista, I thank you for the questions you have raised. In my political statement, I referred to the tourism sector, I spoke on matters that have been successful and just saw the INE numbers. In fact, if you have the opportunity to consult the draft resolution presented by the CFP on this matter, you will see that we do not deny it and clearly say there that the profits in the tourism sector have been increasing. In 2013 there were EUR 1900 million of profits in the area of tourism. But we do not only consult these data, we can also consult others. For example, the Banco de Portugal data reported that 62 % of the financial debt housing and restoration companies were unable to generate results before they had sufficient taxes to pay interest. The European Commission also says that 60 % of companies are at high risk of bankruptcy. There are less than 10 people who have a low risk of bankruptcy. INE also says that there are fewer than 26 400 jobs in the last year in the tourism and restoration sector. The Ministry of Economics says that the number of workers receiving the national minimum wage in the tourism sector is about twice the national average. Mr. Abel Baptista, these are also very important data, which he did not refer to. To succeed is not only to have more profits, it also has to do with how these profits are distributed, and in the tourism sector they have been badly distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u173	With regard to agricultural matters, he spoke of a matter on which, recently, there has been news, which is the return to Brussels of more than EUR 100 million, of the time of the PS Government, related to the problems of registration. This accounting was made only at the time of the PS Government. In fact, then, the CDS bench even took advantage of this issue to devalue the bad performance that the PS had had. This return is mostly related to the registration. What did the PSD and the CDS, who so much complained about the delays in the registration, do over these four years in this regard? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u175	That is to say, through this return, there are much more returns, and this is the responsibility of you. The honourable Member also mentioned the regularization of debts. But it was Mr. Minister or Mr. Secretary of State here in the Assembly of the Republic in February that they said that, with regard to animal health, 60 % was in debt for small organizations with difficulties last year. So there is still a lot of debt and a lot of debt. [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for the support that has come from Brussels — and to end, Madam President — which is important for the development of national agriculture, I would like to say to you, Mr Deputies, that due to the next Community framework by 2020, EUR 26 billion will come to Portugal. Do you know how much you're going to go out on interest payments for the European Union alone? 60 billion! If this data does not deserve any reflection, because I deserve a lot of thought and concern. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u176	For a political statement, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block calls for your attention to the situation that has been in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena since yesterday, in the municipality of Amadora. The neighborhood of Santa Filomena is a neighborhood of poor people, the houses were built by themselves, but it is a neighborhood and those houses are their houses, the only houses they have and are now being destroyed. Backhoes came into the neighborhood and took everything forward. It's demolition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the first time, but every time they return it is the first time for families who are homeless and who see their belongings scattered on the street and mixed with the entule. We know that the problem is complex, we know that the eradication of the barracks is a difficult design, but we also know that it was achieved by many municipalities and several in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. We know that Amadora has a very high concentration of neighborhoods without living conditions, but we also know that very little has been done to solve this problem that moves with human rights, the right to housing. The Special Realisation Program was not met in Amateur. The policy was to'push the belly forward', forgetting that we speak of people, citizens and citizens, with the same rights as all others, and today we are faced with a spectacle which is not worthy of a rule of law and democracy. We are all confronted and we, Members and Members of the Republic, for the most part, cannot remain indifferent. [[Congratulations from BE.]] D. Dulce came from Cape Verde alone in search of a better life. He left four children there, he was 10 years old, I repeat, 10 years without seeing the children. She works at night at a jam restaurant to get her kids, as she says. Today, he's sick and still has two kids in charge, one with disabilities. It has a humble but organized house. You have nowhere to go, you're just waiting for the backhoe. Nobody talks to her. The House does not warn about when the demolition will be. Wait, until they knock on her door. No one asked him how it's gonna be the next day. Yesterday, eight houses were demolished, evicting 28 people, including children. Today, we don't know how many it will be. At the end of the day, someone will make the balance sheet. More damage will be added to those who are already there, without the least care in relation to the danger that they represent for children who still live in the neighborhood. at the end of the day, there will be a few more families who will ask for shelter from family and friends, overcrowding other houses, where the filling does not exist or never existed. The demolitions are accompanied by the Municipal Police and the PSP, through the Rapid Intervention Corps. A number of completely disproportionate police officers in relation to the residents make the barrier and are ready to intervene, as if the residents, many of whom are old and children, constitute a threat to the safety of the backhoeers... The Municipal Police Commander is responsible for the action. Questioned about the decision that supports this action, about the notification to the residents, only says it was the decision of the House. And where is the House's decision, written, so that we know it? He's not, he doesn't exist! The Commissioner of the PSP, asked on the legal basis of the action he protects, knows nothing — "Question to the Chamber", is the answer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: whoever lives there is poor, has little education, but are citizens and citizens like others, they have the right to be informed and, above all, to be aware of the decision and the legal basis that legitimizes the strength of the backhoe. It's like there's some kind of lottery about who's gonna lose the house next. Even today, a resident wondered if the house would be demolished today. I had to go to work, I couldn't miss a day's salary. I simply asked: ‘ Is my house next? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No one answered him! This will be admissible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, just climb the hill, because the neighborhood is in a hill, and we realize that higher interests rise to that place—just look at the view! — where, most likely, a luxury urbanization will be born. The Ombudsman has already taken a position on this situation and was very clear when pointing out the conflict of interests at stake. It says the Ombudsman, and I quote: 'It would be of all benefit to us...' — the President of the City Council — '... about the reasons of public interest which may justify that, in the current economic context, in which all social support programmes are suspended, it opts for the eradication of the whole neighborhood to the detriment of its conversion'. More: The Ombudsman recommends the suspension of the demolitions, which have started—it must be remembered! — in the middle of winter. The Amador City Hall reveals total social insensitivity throughout this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u179	But when you receive the IMI (municipal property tax) you never refuse it! Social insensitivity and disrespect by the Ombudsman and his recommendations. The President of the Chamber replied laconically to the Provider, stating that, and I quote, "the communication deserved the best attention, in particular with regard to the suggestions put forward by you regarding the housing core of the neighborhood of Santa Filomena". The attention given by the Amateur House to the recommendations of the Provider is the continuation of demolition. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There are not enough words to describe what we see today in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena in Amadora. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are going to pretend that nothing happens or, on the contrary, take a stand against this situation that shames democracy? Oh, my God! There are citizens and citizens waiting for our word and I hope that this word will be given today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u180	Mrs Helena Pinto, you have signed up for requests for clarification. Members Rita Rato, Carlos Santos Silva, Celeste Correia and João Gonçalves Pereira. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u181	I will answer two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u182	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u183	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, brought here today a situation of the greatest seriousness, which demands the condemnation by the Assembly of what is happening in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, in the municipality of Amadora, but which has already happened in neighborhood 6 May, in the same municipality. It is that for the people who live in these neighborhoods, with dramatic economic and social situations, for these people who built their homes, subject to working rhythms and extreme situations, there was no gold. These people have never been guaranteed the minimum of dignity in their lives and, today, are faced with an unacceptable situation, illegal demolition. The process started a few months ago and contradicts what it is to establish justice, which is the safeguarding of the dignity of the lives of these people. We will probably be talking about thousands, because it will certainly be more than 2000 people living in these neighborhoods, and only in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena are we talking about 44 families. The situation is deeply degrading, the despair of these people is dramatic. We also had the opportunity to receive and we were able to take note of what has been done to them, particularly blackmailing them to abandon their homes under the penalty of loss of social income for insertion, blackmail for leaving their homes, without any alternative, for their children to be taken away. This is unacceptable and we strongly condemn this decision on the part of the CFP. The Special Realisation Programme( PER) is deeply out of date, does not meet the needs of the populations and there is immediately no alternative for these families. Therefore, we are facing a demolition process that has no alternative and, therefore, today, there will certainly be people who, having no homes of relatives where they can be housed, will sleep on the street with all that this means. And we're talking about families with children, elderly people, chronic patients, in a dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u184	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u185	I conclude by saying the following: on the part of the CFP, we believe that it is urgent to suspend this illegal demolition process, to find a dignified settlement for these people, a regime that guarantees dignity in the right to housing, and that the words of the Ombudsman must be taken into account. The Ombudsman stated that only for reasons of urban public policy could be justified by demolition, but even if those reasons had been invoked, and were not, should they support the current economic situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u186	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u187	I will finish, Madam President. In the face of this appeal from the Ombudsman, this has not happened and we understand that it is unacceptable and it is urgent that a minimum of dignity be guaranteed in the lives of all citizens and, in particular, the residents of the neighborhoods of Santa Filomena and May 6th, in Amadora. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u188	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u189	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I would like to welcome the Block on the Left because it brings us here today a political declaration of greater relevance, whether from a social point of view, from the point of view of development and social and territorial cohesion in a city, a city, a metropolitan area such as that of Lisbon. However, although these dimensions are very important, I think it is good to make history. Mrs. Helena Pinto brought us here some relevant questions, in which she touched the finger on the wound, when she told us that the problem is not today, it is from the past. I have also brought us an important fact, which is the fact that many municipalities in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon have solved all their social problems — this is a very important note.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u190	Housing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u191	But he has forgotten on another side of the problem, because there is not only the social problem, there is also the problem of the tranquillity of the people. As you know, this neighborhood is 500 m from the heart of the city and, therefore, from the safety point of view, it is very important to resolve the problem of unease which forms this neighborhood. In view of what I wanted to do here, I cannot fail to mention that the Governments of Prof. Cavaco Silva, in 1993, created a Special Relocation Programme to end the degraded districts in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, and that Amadora was exactly the last municipality to join. All possibilities have been exhausted, until the last minute, so that Amadora would not join, unfortunately, by pushing the problems with the belly—and the management was of the Communist Party—but we still have a problem, because Amadora, from the point of view of the implementation of the Programme, is the worst social housing project in the country. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Deputy, I'm going to talk about the golden visas. It is that Amadora, in addition to not having solved the problem of social housing, in her time, as Oeiras and some other municipalities of the Metropolitan Area, pushed the problem with the belly, exactly, passing golden visas the best way the Communist Party knew to find, which was to provide the tin of paint, bricks and zinc plates so that people could have the golden visa and could be where they are today. This was the golden visa of the Communist Party 15 years ago in the municipality of Amadora. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am not here to respond to the management of the Socialist Party, but I want to say that I believe that the management of the Socialist Party was not the most appropriate either. In the face of a problem that is that of PER or not PER, and the problem that is being dealt with here today is that of non- PER families, i.e. of families who arrived in the neighborhood after 1994 and therefore from the point of view of the legislation, unfortunately, do not have the right to a home,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u192	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u193	... what I can say, for the information I have, of the President of the House, is that there is a permanent social monitoring of these families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u194	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u195	...that these situations that are present here are situations...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u196	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u197	... of people who, for example, have already had housing solutions and who have returned to the neighborhood, but, of course, about this, will answer the Socialist Party. from our side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u198	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u199	I will finish, Madam President. on our side, we understand that situations such as the restlessness of the population, a neighborhood that is in the center of a city and is a social chaga open at the gates of Lisbon, a large European capital, must have an answer from the point of view of security and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u200	Sir, I'm sorry, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u201	Only in this way will the city become competitive in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u202	In reply, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u203	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Rita Rato and Mr Carlos Santos Silva for the questions she has raised. I begin by replying to Mrs Rita Rato, telling her that we follow up on her speech and, of course, we also believe that it is necessary to suspend this process as soon as possible for all the reasons and in no way, including the Ombudsman's recommendation. Mr. Carlos Santos Silva, I would accept several arguments from Mr. Carlos Santos Silva about the situation in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, and even on other neighborhoods that still exist in the municipality of Amadora, as on May 6, now that Mr. Deputy comes to invoke the argument of tranquility and security, not in relation to that neighborhood and to the people who live there but, yes, at the heart of the city, I think completely incredible, Mr. Even more coming from Mr. Member, who, as far as I know, is a councilman in the Amadora City Council!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u204	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u205	Legally elected, with the vote of the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u206	Mr President, if the neighborhood has been 500 m from the heart of Amadora for so many years, why hasn't the problem been dealt with? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Santos Silva.]] What does it matter first? Whose security is it? Are you very concerned about safety? So I'll tell him I'm here too! I'm worried about the safety of the residents, who are tearing down the houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u207	We're all here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u208	I am concerned about the safety of the children, who are playing in the middle of the cove, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u209	Come on! Let's go check it out!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u210	The honourable Member said that he had privileged information from the President of the House...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u211	The SR. Carlos Santos Silva ( PSD ) : Privileged? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u212	The "privileged" is mine. I was saying that you said that you have information that there is a permanent social monitoring. Mr. Member, I was there this morning, Mrs. Cecilia Honorio was there yesterday, and I invite you to go there with me tomorrow morning. In fact, the honourable Member should be there! I think it is extraordinary, because you, as a Member and also a Vice-President, should be there. It should be there, as we were there, to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u213	Come on! Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u214	Mr President, I tell you one thing: social monitoring is zero. It is not the first time that I have followed demolition in Amadora's council, Mr. Deputies, it is not the first time, for several years that I have done it and social monitoring is zero! In fact, that's all done against the rules. In addition to not having a document that legitimates, a concrete order, a purely administrative decision, civil protection is not on the ground—and it had to be, of course! — nor are social services. Do you know who's there? The Rapid Intervention Body of the PSP, with bulletproof vests. This is prejudiced, sir! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It's prejudiced against that population! It's just that if there's someone out there that's unprotected, it's the population of that neighborhood.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u215	You've got each one! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u216	I am deeply sorry that the honourable Member and the PSD, instead of wanting to find a solution to that situation, come up with this kind of argument. It's all gone. There's everything going to fail! And it was good for all of us, Members and Members of the Republic, with responsibilities — we must defend human rights — to come out and say a voice to the President of the House: stop! Father! This is an attack on human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u217	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Celeste Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u218	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I would like to thank you for bringing this issue to the plenary. It is not any topic, it is not a linear theme and it is not easy, on this subject, to find the right and fair tone. Yes, Mrs. Member, it's hard to see poor homes demolished by poor people. It's hard to tear down! It's hard to hear tragic stories, unprotected people and people, more and more, victims of the crisis. But the scenarios are different, Mrs Deputy: there are families that have housing alternatives outside the neighborhood; there are others who have already benefited from financial support from the City Hall and social security for the purchase of housing; there are families who have refused to discuss with the Authority and all the entities — social security, Embassy of Cape Verde, High Commissioner for Migration — any support to find a dignified housing alternative. I follow you in your concerns, Mrs Deputies, but I do not follow you when you say that the House has so far made no effort. See, Mrs. Member : the Council of Amateur acceded to the Special Plan of Realisation ( PER) in 1995. There were 6722 family aggregates to reside in 35 degraded nuclei. So far, the City Council has invested EUR 12 million, without support from the central government — listen well, Mr Carlos Santos Silva, I repeat, without support from the central government, which is regrettable — and the PER resolution rate is 86 %, almost 87 %, and only 874 family aggregates are missing. The Amadora Municipal Chamber continues its efforts to resolve the problem of degraded neighborhoods and, as I was told, it will not suspend the implementation of the Special Plan of Realisation. The question I would like to ask you is: does the honourable Member not think that it is in the sense of this effort that governments and, in particular, the authority and civil society have to find the answer to this problem in good sense?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u219	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u220	I shall now conclude, Madam President. Together, we must find the answer to try to solve the problem of these families with balance and justice. Knowing her as I know her, I am sure that she agrees with me and therefore I would like to hear your comment, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u221	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u222	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I must congratulate you on the relevance of the subject you have brought here in your political statement. I'd like to leave two previous notes. The neighborhood of Santa Filomena was one of the most sheltered neighborhoods in the country and the municipality of Amadora is one of the country's municipalities with more barracks neighborhoods. The CDS has been accompanying this whole process in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena and for a long time it has been saying that this relocation should have been done. However, obviously, it is worth more late than ever and the process is under way. It is good not to ignore that each case is a case, that there are rules and the rules are to be complied with. It has been said here in this House that this is a sensitive issue and, to this extent, Mrs Deputy, on the part of the CDS, has every willingness to follow up all cases of social injustice in this same matter. Now this is a process that must be seen and discussed in Parliament but must above all be accompanied by the Town Hall of the Amateur. There is one thing we disagree about, Mrs. Member : the Left Block and the PCP call for the suspension of the process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u223	The suspension of the demolition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u224	... the CDS does not ask for the suspension of the process, the CDS calls for the completion of the process without any social injustice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u225	In reply, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u226	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Celeste Correia and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira. I am starting by you, Mr President, to tell you that the Left Block, and I think that the CFP is second to us in this matter, calls for the suspension of the demolition. We do not ask for the suspension of the relocation process, on the contrary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u227	So, we agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u228	...what we asked is that the demolitions be suspended, which, in fact, should not have even started. in a democracy, there is no demolition of houses in the middle of winter, as was done in Amadora’s Town Hall — I repeat, in the middle of winter! There is no need for a law to say that it is forbidden to do so, as in other countries of Europe, good sense is enough, Mrs Celeste Correia, to avoid demolition in winter, putting people and all their parts in the rain. As far as this is concerned, I think we will agree. Mrs Celeste Correia, trying to answer the questions you have raised to me, we certainly agree on finding a sensible answer, a balanced answer and a fair answer. But this is where it hits the spot, Mrs. Deputy! It is that this is not today, it is not yesterday, it has been from several years ago, and the Amateur House has never found a balanced, fair, or sound answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u229	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u230	It's absolutely true! I know the whole process and it is absolutely true! And don't come and tell me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people who do not want social support, there are people who have second homes, because I know there are. It's true! The best handkerchief drops the knot. Look at Banco Espírito Santo! Look at Quinta da Marinha! It's everywhere! But why will these have to be the object of a special focus? Oh, my God! Mrs Celeste Correia, if there had been a work on a case-by-case basis, as should have been done, all cases of abuse were easily discovered and all others had the necessary and inherent support. But, honourable Member, there is here a question of principle, a humanist, leftist, socialist policy: they don't put themselves on the streets old and children, people who have nowhere else to go. This is done with work. And how many times did the Camera da Amadora enter the neighborhood of Santa Filomena to find out what were the deficiencies? Oh, my God! How many times has it been doing a survey? Oh, my God! Don't talk to me about the 1995 PER, because we know that. The problem is that the PER was made in 1995 and then they crossed their arms and no one else wanted to know what was going on there. I repeat, no one else wanted to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u231	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u232	Madam Member, I understand that you have to defend or at least come to the aid of the Amadora City Council, but I understand that there must be an unequivocal position of the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Republic, because we are talking about human rights and or we are saying clear, loud and sound what is going on or we will not fulfill our obligation! I would like to point out once again that the honourable Member has not spoken on this issue either for the opinion and recommendations of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is very clear. The Ombudsman questions whether the public interest is being taken into account in the specific case of those land. Now, none of us who are born here yesterday, and therefore we realize what is at stake: it is the urbanizations and the real estate funds that want the land where those people live.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u233	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u234	I shall conclude, Madam President, quickly. I would just like to tell Mrs Celeste Correia, for example, that a representative of the UN rapporteur for the right to housing visits Portugal on 18 April. Do you know what's on your agenda? One of the points on the agenda will be that of the violent evictions and demolitions that have occurred in Amadora, in the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, since June 2012. This is what they come here to see, and all right! So, and we're still quiet, we're not saying anything, we don't have an attitude, a word to say? Oh, my God! This is necessary, Mrs. Deputy! So I sincerely appeal to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, take your position. I shall finish, Madam President, with an invitation. Probably, almost absolutely sure, tomorrow the demolitions continue. It's even 500 m from the city's heart, right at the train line. It's not far, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go there tomorrow. Tomorrow, we're going to the neighborhood of Santa Filomena, 500 meters from the city center, see what those people do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to ask you not to extend your speeches far beyond the time limit available, although Mrs Helena Pinto was entitled to three minutes, not two minutes, for her reply. We shall continue with the political statement by Mrs Mónica Ferro. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we continue to build a better Portugal. Ended a demanding Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, « Portugal has reached a point where it can increasingly benefit from the benefits of policies adopted in recent years. » — I say, I tell you the PSD and the suspicious President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi. It was the effort of all people, on the edge of the policies designed by this majority and by the government that it supports, which allows us today to ambition to grow more and to meet the objectives we proposed at the beginning of this legislature: a better Portugal. Mário Draghi goes further and says that Portugal is becoming a witness to the recovery of the euro zone. We continue to build a better Portugal, pointing out the reduction in unemployment rate and job creation. Today, we note with the 100 000 Portuguese who returned to the labour market, including 17 000 young people, a reduction in the unemployment rate and 17 % of young people's unemployment. This means the return of hope to the country and to our fellow citizens. Of course, these results do not allow us to rest and our future project puts employment and social policies at the top of our priorities. There is more Portugal to build and more employment to be created and, for that, we call all Portuguese, all entrepreneurs, all those who see us here and at home for more of this collective challenge. We continue to build a better Portugal than, at the end of this year, will be released from excessive deficit procedures. I say this, the PSD says and clearly says the last report of the Public Finance Council, which states that the budget deficit may fall below 3% in 2015, aligning its forecasts with the government and even countering some more pessimistic projections of international institutions. The year 2015 will be the year with the lowest deficit of the last 40 years, the first non-excessive deficit of the last 26 years and the first deficit below 3 % since we adhere to the single currency. A certain opposition, which has given so much echo to bad news, is changed and silent in view of the hope that the independent Council of Public Finance gives to the Portuguese. Perhaps they have not appreciated the warning that if everything goes back to the status of this government's rigor policy and the pure and simple abandonment of consolidation measures, despite the convergence of the economy to its potential growth, the deficit will again overcome the trade mark of 3% of GDP, and already in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not promise tomorrow that they will not sing a couple of condemnations that, with proposals only to be revealed in distant June, they will make the lives of the Portuguese better only with a magic pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u238	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are accused of not giving in to populism, of being unable to do demagogy, of being accused of the demand and the truth with which we always speak to the Portuguese, the eyes in our eyes. We are building a better Portugal, in a process that obliges everyone to engage in a sustained effort that is not being carried out in a single legislature, on a path that, hopefully, will bring more dignity to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u240	We continue to build a better Portugal, which protects its most vulnerable ones, who cares about the sustainability of the social state, which extends the number of exemptions of moderate rates in access to health, which creates social rates of electricity, which focuses on intergenerational justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u241	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u242	... which ensured that the budgetary consolidation measures had a greater impact in which the most available income they had and made Portugal the country where the distribution of austerity was more progressive,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... which brought the debate about birth to the political narrative and the practice of this House, in an urgent concern about the future of the country itself. An externally recognised Portugal, not only when it goes to the markets, is financed and is received with demand that more than double the supply and with the lowest long-term interest rates never observed in the history of the Portuguese sovereign debt since there is registration, i.e. 1820. But this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no news! Nor has it been reported that Portugal has begun to repay loans made before the contractual deadlines, not only because we are good payers but because this will save Portuguese and Portuguese millions of euros in interest. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to build a Portugal recognized for its commitment to peace and international security, human rights and multilateralism, as proved by satiety by the recent election, with a record vote, for the United Nations Human Rights Council. A country that has moved from yesterday's words to today's actions, has entered it into the Government's Programme and has implemented it with proactive, creative policies and responses, aligned with international best practices but also innovative and that have brought us great international prestige. A country that brought the fight against all violence against girls, girls and women, wage inequality, the promotion of reconciliation between family, professional and personal life, the representation of women in economic decision-making for political debate and does not lower their arms in the face of the obstacles encountered. A country to grow, which exports more, which is more innovative — Portugal has been the country of the European Union that has grown more in terms of innovation — and more competitive, inverting a trend of fall that has existed since 2005 as a result of the ambitious reform programme adopted by the country and which seems to start to yield good results, as the World Economic Forum tells us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to build a better Portugal, which is expected of all of us. The PSD never forgets its genetic code, never forgets the axis of the social-democracy wheel and always puts people first. It is them, their well-being and their dignity that moves us and is in their name that we fight and we will continue to fight for a better Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u243	To ask questions, the Members are registered. Deputies Cecilia Honorio, do BE, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, do CDS-PP, Rui Paulo Figueiredo, do PS, and Paula Santos, do PCP. The honourable Member has informed the Bureau that it is answerable to a series of two questions. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u244	Madam President, Mrs. Mónica Ferro, I would like to welcome you for your political statement, beginning by recognizing that it began in spring and opened the hunt to vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u245	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u246	... that the electoral campaign is today rising in the political declarations of the majority, because Portugal is much better by the voice of the CDS and Portugal is frankly better by the voice of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u247	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u248	Madam Member, this Portugal can better be an excellent slogan of a large poster on a roundabout, it has no correspondence to the reality of people's lives. When you tell us that for the PSD, people are in the first place (in fact, I would like to recognize this harmony between the PSD and the CDS, at least there is a tune in the speech but you do not know whether it continues to the end or is only part of the election campaign), I want to leave you objective questions. I want you to ask people who are in the emergency services of our hospitals if, in fact, Portugal is better after the policies of this government. I want you to ask students and students, parents and teachers of schools, after the worst opening of the school year in our country, as recognized, if Portugal is better. I want you to ask more than half of the unemployed and unemployed in Portugal, who have no social support or benefit, if Portugal is better. Madam Member, acknowledge that it is a slogan for a roundabout, but it is not the reality of each and every Portuguese working and living of their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u249	You talked about facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u250	I brought the gender and birth issues here, talked about the introduction of birth issues into the political narrative, and I would like to ask you if, apart from the narrative, the PSD is actually committed to addressing this serious problem. Is it that birth has a lot to do with working conditions, isn't it, Mrs. Member? And it has to do with the precariousness of workers and, above all, of workers. She knows as well as I do situations of abuse, violence, exploitation of pregnant women or who have just had their children. And since I brought this question here in the narrative plan, I will return the question to you in terms of reality: is the PSD really willing to do something concrete to change the lives of these people, Mrs Deputies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u251	The next question lies with Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u252	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Mónica Ferro, thanking you for the subject here and congratulating her on this. Madam Member, I want to tell you that, in fact, Portugal is better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u253	Worse it was impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u254	It is enough to recall the debate that had been in this Chamber a year ago, in which many opposition parties spoke in a recessive spiral, in galloping unemployment, to realize that the debate today, a year later, is a completely different debate. One year later, what we want to know is whether growth is 1, 5 %, 1, 6 % or even as the Banco de Portugal estimated today is 1, 7 %. Mrs. Deputy, it is not surprising that none of the opposition parties is talking about this update of the high growth estimates, with the high review. But, honourable Member, the difference between the public and political debate of one year ago and today's debate is quite elucidative. A better Portugal, as Mrs Deputy mentioned here, is a Portugal which has now recovered its self-esteem, recovered its external credibility, recovered its trust and managed, gradually and gradually, to begin to recover the incomes of the Portuguese, but it is also a Portugal that knows that there are still many challenges to overcome and that only by keeping the path will we be able to win them, in fact. The question I would like to leave to you has exactly to do with this review of growth estimates, especially with this revision up to 1.7 %, Banco de Portugal's estimate. I'd like to ask you if we're on the right track,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u255	Is the good way together or apart? Are CDS and PSD together or separated?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u256	... if Portugal is better and will be better if all parliamentary groups—but all, especially those who had governmental responsibility by 2011—know how to assume their respective responsibilities, whether they know how to recognize mistakes, turn the page of the past and look to the future, because only then will we know how to give hope to a country that wants to have hope, want to have confidence in the future and want to overcome all its challenges. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u257	In reply, Mrs Mónica Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u258	Madam President, I shall begin by replying to Mrs Cecilia Honorio from the Left Block. Madam Member, I cannot attribute electoral intentions because throughout my speech I have never forgotten to mention the challenges, I have never forgotten to mention the difficulties, I have never forgotten to mention the impact this demanding programme had on the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. What I did was, praising the effort of the Portuguese and Portuguese, to show that there is a path that is being taken and that is a path that gives us hope, and this is important for us to continue to involve the Portuguese and the Portuguese in this process that has still begun. When I mean Portugal is better, I do it with data. I brought here this House, data that I have seen very little propagated by social communication and opposition—not a word about them! The effort was to introduce more elements in this debate in order to show the Portuguese and Portuguese that the effort compensates, the effort has compensated. As an example, I used Mário Draghi, I used the Public Finance Council, I used the unemployment data and could have used many others. The honourable Member has brought me the question of urgency and the question of access to health. Mrs Deputy, we have extended the number of people with the exemption of moderate rates, we have extended the exemption of moderate rates for all children under eight years of age. We have more appointments, more surgeries, we're hiring more doctors, the drugs are cheaper. Of course, this cannot be reduced to a case policy, and it is clear that each case is regretted by us and we immediately try to correct it, but we cannot fail to see the forest because we focus too much on the tree. The way is a consolidated path, it is a path that fills us with hope — I am filled with hope, Madam Member, and that is how I look at politics, as a mission that I have to fulfill every day but with this hope that encourages me. We brought the question of birth to the political narrative, but we don't stay there. The honourable Member knows that we have had the entire Assembly of the Republic working on the issue of birth. In some committees we were alone with the CDS-PP, you must confess it. We did not have any contributions from the opposition parties, who did not vote for reports. The Block has initiatives, we know! And it is clear that on the 15th day when these measures are being discussed, they will not only be able to know in advance the proposals of the PSD and the other parliamentary groups, how they will be able to participate in this debate. That's what the Portuguese are waiting for from the ladies and gentlemen! It is not a militant criticism, without never recognizing the merit of what is being achieved. That ends up being insulting to the Portuguese themselves. With regard to the question by Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, of course there are very positive signs and if I had to explain it I would not do better than what you just said. A year ago, we were discussing whether we were leaving this Economic and Financial Assistance Programme with a cautious plan or anything else and today we are discussing how much we are going to grow. What is more curious is that when the government made the projections, which were just projections, everyone accused us of being too optimistic. In fact, all institutions are approaching us and even predicting growths greater than that which was our starting growth. So this fills us with confidence, as it fills us with confidence when we go to markets and the interest rates are the lowest of all, as it fills us with confidence when we know that rating agencies are improving the outlook of the Portuguese economy. They have not changed them yet, as I know, they are probably waiting for the impact of the elections and, as the Council of Public Finance says, they are waiting to see whether with a magic pass some parties will present themselves to the elections with the narrative of « simply reverse the austerity measures that the economy grows sharply and debt never exceeds 3% of GDP ». Mr. Deputies, I believe this is the way. I believe that this is still a road full of obstacles, but I think that today, with the various messages we have, we can be more hopeful than we had last year. Surely we are! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u259	To request clarification, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Ferro, I welcome her on the subject she has brought here, which is very important and relevant. It is very positive and desirable to have hope and I do not run away from the challenge that has placed us. It is good that some indexes are better, but it is also important to talk about the real country. And if some indexes are better, there are huge ones that are worse, especially almost all those that relate to the lives of people and the real country. I'm sorry that you didn't approach them. I am sorry that the honourable Member has not said that GDP has returned to values for almost a decade. I am sorry that I did not mention that the growth of exports is in sharp slowdown and at the level of two decades ago. Of course, export growth is important. Of course, it is important to be talking about growth, even if it is small, but it is not serious to circumvent the decline in GDP to values two decades ago and the slowdown in exports. It is also necessary, in this serious debate, that we all have to have and that the honourable Member has called for and said that the investment has returned to values of almost three decades ago, that emigration has reached numbers from the 1960s and that we look at the unemployment rate, the unemployed and the inactive we have almost 20 % of the unemployed population. It should also be noted that the European Commission is concerned about the fact that unemployment in Portugal can stabilize at very high levels and that we have had — it is an important cause and that the honourable Member has pointed out — one of the greatest increases in the wage gap between women and men. It must be said that we have had one of the largest payrolls and income losses available among all Portuguese, which has increased the gap between the richest 10% and the poorest 10%, which has increased the number of children and young people at risk of poverty, who have more than half a million Portuguese at risk of poverty, so that we no longer have, Mrs Member, an early school drop that has increased, problems in hospitals and problems in computer systems of justice and education with reflection on people's lives. So, Madam President, I'm done as I started. Mrs Deputy, in fact, some indexes may be better, but there are many who are much worse, especially almost all those who are concerned with people's lives. The question that each Portuguese puts to himself is whether his life is better or worse and, Madam Member, the question that I put to him is the following: do you not think that it should also address these issues and these matters in his speeches and not just bring us, even if we hope, a vision in which it seems that everything is all right? In fact, it is not the real country that the honourable Member here has brought us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u261	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Ferro, no one is expecting, of course, when he makes the quotes by Mário Draghi, for example, that they are citations that say what the problems and the negative consequences of the policies imposed on our country in the last four years have been. Obviously that would not happen, as the PSD and the CDS-PP continue to not recognize the disastrous consequences of your policy on the living conditions of the Portuguese people. Mrs Deputy, the reality is that we are facing a defeated government in which both the PSD and the CDS-PP both the members of the government themselves are engaged in public interventions to try to hide those who are the real problems that the country and the Portuguese today have in the expectation that they will thus be resolved. But problems are not solved just because they forget. The problems are not solved because they are simply ignored, as the honourable Member did in her speech. The truth is they are trying to sell illusions to try to avoid a defeat that will be inevitable for the PSD, for the CDS-PP and for this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u263	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u264	Mrs Deputy, I will tell you about the concrete reality of the Portuguese life, of the reality that is unemployment, that is emigration, that is impoverishment, that was cuts in wages, benefits, that are increasingly the difficulties in access to the social functions of the State. Madam Member, the questions I would like to ask you are the following: what does the honourable Member have to say to the workers who are unemployed and who are thousands of them in our country? Where is the country better in this situation? Madam Member, where is the country better when thousands and thousands of Portuguese people don't access health care? And I can give you many examples of why this is so: the brutal increase in moderate rates, the withdrawal of transport from non-emergency patients. There are 1,300,000 Portuguese without a family doctor, when this government promised that it would assign a family doctor to all Portuguese — a promise not fulfilled. What do you have to tell the families that you've lost your family allowance? We are talking about thousands of children in our country who simply lost their family allowance and who, many of them, saw their family allowance cut. Mrs. Member, is this how the country is better? She says that the country is better, but the concrete reality of the life of thousands of workers, reformers and young people in our country is that it is getting worse and worse. Madam Member, the last question I would like to put to you, in your thesis and rhetoric that the country is better, is in the sense of knowing what the PSD and CDS-PP proposals have for the Stability and Growth Programme that they will have to submit shortly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u265	Mrs Mónica Ferro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. There was no PSD, nor any attempt on my part to spread reality. In fact, I have repeatedly stated that all the measures initiated had an idea of the impact they had on people's lives and that, whenever possible, and within what has been possible, we have done everything to reduce that impact. There are realities that are inexhaustible. Despite everything we did to make the impact of austerity measures harder for those who had the most available income, we did not deny that these measures had an impact on all Portuguese and all Portuguese. So we don't have to cover up that reality now. We have a notion of her and I said that, while there is an unemployed Portuguese, that means we cannot be quiet. Social policies, job creation policies will certainly be at the top of the agenda, our project, and are at the top now... [[Protests by Mrs Paula Santos (PCP).]] Of course you are, Your Honor! For every argument that the honourable Member gives me to a reality that demands even more from us, I have answers to give you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u267	Go ask people if the country is better and see what they answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u268	We had answers in all areas of intervention. Many of them have fallen short of the one that would be our expectation? Well, they've stayed! The situation in which the country was located was beyond any of our worst expectations and this required, at many times, an adequacy of policies to respond to the demands we would have. In fact, I cannot but point out that we are on the side of the Socialist Party to recognize that some indicators are good! That already means a change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u269	And electoral interests!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u270	And with regard to the withdrawal of GDP, which has been mentioned here, I must say that, in fact, GDP has been receding for three years and now it is beginning to grow. It is not enough for the PS to recognize it, since all international institutions are doing so, as well as national institutions! I'm told here that Dr. António Costa already recognizes. That's a good sign. In fact, we wanted the exports to continue with the lightning they started with, but it is undeniable that they have a solid performance, of the best at the level of the space where we are inserted. If they slowed down was because the initial growth was actually very bright, but that does not mean that they are not at a much faster pace than they were before. They're not as fast as they were last year. This is a matter of acceleration only, not proportion. We just have to go see the proportion. I do not resist making a small reference to the issue of wage inequalities. We have been in the hearing with the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality all morning, and if there is something that has become clear, it is that wage inequalities are a priority of this government. We were the first government to lead the issue to social consultation. We have recommended a report which will lead to social consultation. We are drawing a mechanism for calculating wage inequalities. For the first time, we introduced this factor as a penalizing factor for companies in access to Community tenders and funds. And I still have something else to add: it is not true that wage inequalities have increased; from 2012 to 2013, they have decreased. Therefore, it is always important to be careful about the numbers they quote, because they do not always favor your argument. Mrs Paula Santos, I really believe that the country is better. I'd like it to be much better, which is why we come here every day and fight, Mrs. Deputies. We continue to believe that it is our policy, our strategy that will lead to a better Portugal. In fact, we don't have any proof that it's not working out. We certainly regret unemployment numbers. We regret the numbers of social exclusion, we couldn't regret it any more, but let's record, let's mark the performance. It's a journey! It's a journey, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u271	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u272	In conclusion, what we regret is that we do not often have more support for the opposition, because the opposition welcomes the bad news more — as if it gave them a reason before time — than the good news we have for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the political declaration of the PS. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At first there was nothing, there was no purse, list, VIP package, everything was nothing but speculation and untrue news. The Prime Minister himself, on 11 March, stated in this Chamber : « The Tax Authority has denied this news, they have been denied, i.e., there is no VIP scholarship ». And he repeated the denial, not three, but five times. On the morning of March 17, the State Secretary for Tax Affairs, in a statement, continued to deny and refuse the need for any investigation. But it was the sun of little harsh! In the early afternoon of that same day, the Ministry of Finance announced the request for an investigation to be carried out by the General Finance Inspection. The resignations began. The usual ones! From there, we passed from nothing to everything, or, better, to almost everything, and watched a deplorable defiance of revelations. After all, there was a VIP package/package list! Since October, there had been a universe of taxpayers, to whom a particular computer filter guarantees protection of the right to tax secrecy — a right of all and which must be guaranteed to all, on an equal footing before the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u276	And we knew more: the impulse had broken— imagine, imagine! — the person responsible for computer services following cooperation contacts with the United States tax administration. The Secretary of State knew nothing and therefore was not responsible! Nothing new! A recurring pattern! It had already been like this, when problems broke out with Citius and with the teacher placement contest. When something goes wrong, the government never knows anything, it has no responsibility and it is a victim in the hands of the computerists, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the unemployed, the civil servants, the system, the people, the past... [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the Parliamentary Committee on Budgets and Finance, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs came to say: "I did not authorize, nor would I ever authorize a specific list, because it would violate basic principles of our legal system". And he said more: « I never took advantage of, I never decided, I never gave instructions, I never evaluated». And it went further: « I am visibly against the existence of specific taxpayer lists ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u277	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u278	Well, if you did not authorize, you would never authorize and is visibly against, you have been unauthorized and disrespectful, you are injured in the authority of performing your duties and you have no conditions to continue. All you have left is resignation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Political responsibility is not, it cannot be a mere rhetorical exercise. It is good that the Government once and for all realized that it was not the leaders of the different bodies that the Portuguese have entrusted, with their vote, the responsibility of directing the country's destinations, fulfilling and enforcing the law and ensuring the normal functioning of the institutions. That is why it is incomprehensible that, in the light of the facts of this gravity which threatens to damage the confidence of citizens in a nuclear body within its guardianship, the Minister of Finance has referred to a silence on the subject. The phrases made by the Prime Minister in a paternalist tone do not arrive, stressing the merit of the tax administration's contribution to improving the performance of the tax machine. You need more, much more. We must take responsibility, set the example and ensure effective protection of tax secrecy, in a framework of respect for the principle of equality between citizens. The general impoverishment to which the country has been subjected and the dynamics of fragility of the public administration undertaken by this government cannot infiltrate the rule of law, affecting fundamental principles. It is now necessary to restore normality in the functioning of the Tax Authority. The appointment, under a replacement scheme, for the Director-General, of a person who has been systematically awarded in two contests for the exercise of the function is an extravagant decision, generated by the despair of the guardianship to cover the hole in which he has stepped and which can only be considered as absolutely exceptional and transitional. in this regard is indeed regrettable the example given by the Ministry of Finance by leaving the tax administration mostly in the hands of designated substitute leaders, and short lists for 13 of the 17 existing posts have been waiting for office for months, according to the President of CRESAP ( Committee on Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ). Another episode of this government's bad relationship with the reality its action produces. In the Tax Authority, such as in social security, regional coordination committees and in general bodies, the strategy is always the same : leaders appointed under eternal replacement regime ; recruitment and selection processes made by CRESAP and ultimately go there to guess why among three candidates indicated, with different political-party convictions, the choice is invariably one of the political sympathy of the majority. Orders for the opening of tenders and final appointments are drawn up in time and are taking place only at the end of the Government's term of office, ensuring the extension of the exercise of functions and the capture of the administrative machine by the parties of the majority. It is said that, in good rigour, all this, in the name of transparency and the dispartition of the public administration machine, is not bad! But here too the responsibility is not the government and the arguments are: « CRESAP is the one to select »; « the law permits ». Finally, a farce! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is time to start a path of effective change! The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, attentive to the current framework of the decisions of the Banco de Portugal within the framework of the national strategic interest and the need for effective independence and transparency in the exercise of its activity, will deliver to the Bureau of the Assembly a bill, focusing on the designation of the administration body of the same, which will meet its progressive governmentalization. We're not going as far in this project as it was our will. We consider the participation of the President of the Republic and the Assembly as essential in the design of designation. However, in the face of the constitutional blockade invoked by the majority, it is now proposed that the parliamentary scrutiny of the indigent governor be carried out, promoting the pluralistic intervention of sovereignty agencies. We know, therefore, that we are taking an important step towards strengthening Portuguese confidence in the institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u279	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Paulo Sá, do PCP, Vera Rodrigues, do CDS-PP, José Luís Ferreira, dos Verdes, Cristóvão Crespo, do PSD and Pedro Filipe Soares, do BE. Mrs Isabel Santos will answer, together, two and then three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u280	Mrs President, Mrs Isabel Santos, with regard to CRESAP, are public the deep doubts of the CFP regarding the role played by this recruitment committee, behind which they continue to try to hide nominations that are objectively political, such as the recent appointments for social security which the CFP has denounced. But the central issue in the VIP list scandal is not this, Madam Member, but the right of all taxpayers, all without exception, to have the protection of their tax data. And the problem is not in the officials of the Tax Authority but, rather, in the use of external private companies operating within this entity, without ensuring the protection of taxpayer tax data. The creation of a VIP list in the Tax Authority, Mrs. Member, is something completely unacceptable because certain taxpayers are entitled to an increased protection of their tax data, which is not extensible to the overwhelming majority of taxpayers. On this subject, Mrs Deputies, it is even more necessary to clarify the role of the Government in the creation of the list, in the definition of the objectives of this list and in the definition of the names that make up this list. As you know, Mrs Deputy, the State Secretary for Tax Affairs has categorically denied any intervention by her and the Government. But we also know that the president of the tax union said that there are people who are available to testify, on their own site, that it was the State Secretary for Tax Affairs himself who was at the origin of this list. This is an issue which, of course, needs to be resolved. But regardless of this statement, Mrs Deputies, there is something we all know: that the country is not governed by general directors and by sub-directors-generals but by the members of the government. The consequences of this case cannot be left solely by the resignation of heads of the Tax Authority. The Government must assume political responsibility for the existence of this VIP list, and this requires that consequences be removed by the members of the Government that protect the Tax Authority. At last Friday's hearing, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs "wrought the water from the hood" and tried solely to hold the heads of the Tax Authority accountable for the success. The Secretary of State refused to assume any political responsibility for the existence of the VIP list. And the Minister of Finance, as we know, referred to silence, to a deafening silence. Madam Member, what I would like to ask you is how you characterize this attitude of the Government and, in particular, of the members of the Government that protect the Tax Authority, refusing to assume the political responsibility that is objectively yours. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u281	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u282	I will finish, Mr. President. And how does the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs intend to continue to perform his duties if he does not know what is going on in a service that protects him? How does he intend to continue to perform his duties if a service that protects him denies vital information? How does the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs intend to continue to perform functions if in a service that protects a VIP list is created that violates the principle of equality of citizens before the tax administration? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u283	Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u284	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Santos, in her speech, asked several times whether it would not be time for the government to do some things. I ask you whether it is not the time of the Socialist Party to stop "shooting aside" and "shooting at the feet". It is that, contrary to what the Socialist Party sometimes even happens in this matter, and in the course of the discussions we had last week, it was more or less oscillating between the opposition that makes it « cheap fool», because it is always going around, and the opposition that goes back, such as the crab. Notice : at an early stage, they began by criticizing the State Secretary for Tax Affairs, because he knew about this matter and therefore had the responsibility of direct involvement in this case. And we came to the conclusion, on Friday, already at the end of the day, that, after all, the State Secretary for Tax Affairs deserved criticism not because he knew and because he was directly involved in this issue, but because he did not know and therefore had the same consequences. But about the action you described in your political statement to the Secretary of State, I have to do justice to you and say that it was quite accurate and accurate. Let's do the reconstitution of Thursday and Friday auditions. First, we heard a union leader say that there was a direct action by the Secretary of State, that there was a list given by the Secretary of State and that there was evidence of this. Then we had a list, which could exist, but after all, there was no evidence, either concrete, palpable, or factual, that the Secretary of State had been involved in the same VIP list. Then, still, we had an audition where it was said there could have been procedures for a certain time, but the Secretary of State did not know, nor did he have to know, because they were technical procedures. And finally, we heard the Secretary of State say that he had asked, himself, to whom he had to ask, precisely the Director-General of the Tax Authority, that he resigned because he took the wrong information he had given to the Secretary of State and consequently also forwarded to the Prime Minister, in the sense that procedures that may have been tested had never been known by the Secretary of State, neither requests nor orders nor indicated by the Secretary of State. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I recommend you some serenity and that we wait for the discovery of the truth, which the CDS always wanted and always defended. For us, it is unquestionable that the defence of the principle of equality between citizens, in this case, between taxpayers, and the right to the protection of tax secrecy is relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u285	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u286	I'm done now, Mr. President. Additional security and data protection procedures must be done on an abstract basis and never on names and lists. Mrs. Member, tell me whether it is true that this has always been what you heard from the CDS. This is clearly what you will always listen to the CDS. We cannot admit that there is a state within the state, and that will never hear us say differently. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u287	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u288	Mr President, I shall begin by answering the last question addressed to me by Mrs Vera Rodrigues and, with all due regard and respect for Mrs Deputy, I have to tell you that something goes wrong here, but it is not with the opposition, it is exactly with the government and with the parties that support the government. We had already understood that they had a bad relationship with reality, but now this has become a bit complicated. Notice: it was not the Socialist Party that denied the existence of VIP lists and then came to confirm that they actually existed. It was the Government, Mrs. Replying also to the question put to me by Mr Paulo Sá, I wonder how a State Secretary can sit quietly in his secretary having services that have contacts with services from other countries for cooperation agreements, for the creation of cooperation mechanisms. Do you draw special protection mechanisms from a group that you do not yet know who you are, because the dimension is not yet known, nor the real consequences of the existence of this VIP list, and the Secretary of State did not know anything? So, Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, you're going to have to define to me what the role of Mr. Secretary of State is. Is my doubt right now whether we still have a government, because a government that knows nothing, that has nothing to do with nothing, that doesn't follow anything, that knows nothing, what are you doing, Mrs Deputies? [[P.S.'s applause.]] My question at this time is whether Mr. Secretary of State, for inaction, has already resigned and does not exist or is still waiting to resign. The fact is that by inaction this Secretary of State no longer exists, he has already "died" in his duties and is unable to continue, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u289	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u290	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Santos, brought up two important issues for discussion, one on the abuse of the replacement regime and CRESAP and the other on the list of VIP taxpayers. In fact, these are two examples of the brand image of this government, i.e. citizens are not on an equal footing with the law. The CRESAP, apparently, was the solution found by the Government to recruit tables for the Public Administration impartially, but after all the criterion that most weight is ultimately the partisan color, as, moreover, has recently been found in social security appointments. After all, we all remember — of course, the honourable Member also remembers — the complaints made by the current Minister Mota Soares, as Member of the CDS-PP, against party nominations. In fact, it is the "look at what I say and not what I do" at your best. On the list of VIP taxpayers, we were familiar with the facts of the solutions. First, he was the State Secretary for Tax Affairs to ensure that there was no VIP taxpayer list. Then it was Mrs. Minister of Finance that there was no list and then it was up to Mr. Prime Minister who, here in the plenary, guaranteed that there was no VIP taxpayer list. However, we have learned that this list has been referred to in a training course for hundreds of financial inspectors, and we also know that there was no list, after all, but there was an intention to establish what those responsible called « internal procedures », which is a curious name for the VIP taxpayer list. In fact, it is very serious and very poorly owned by a rule of law that there is a list of untouchables, that there are citizens of the first and second centuries, because this means that citizens, taxpayers, are not equal before the law. But even more serious is that this list exists and that the government does not know anything about the existence of that list, because this means that the government is completely losing control of its responsibilities, it definitely means that the government has lost the north. Mrs Vera Rodrigues, I have some difficulty in understanding what is worse, whether it is the list and whether the government has been missing the truth or whether it is the list and the government does not know about its existence. Anyone's bad, but I have a hard time knowing what's the worst. But there is still a need to find out who gave instructions, with what objectives, what was meant to be safe and what citizens wanted to protect with this list. The government continues to say that there is no list. Madam Member, does it not seem strange that, having no list, there have already been two discharges of high levels of tax administration? It is that if there are two resignations from two boards of the Public Administration because of a list that does not exist then we should ask ourselves how many redundancies can still happen if the list is to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u291	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u292	I will finish, Mr. President. Do you think it's strange that there's a resignation because of a list that doesn't exist after all?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u293	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u294	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Santos, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the three questions you have addressed in your political statement. I'll start by talking about the issues that I consider simpler and only then will I refer to the so-called VIP list. Mrs Deputy, the PSD Parliamentary Group was looking forward to the draft law on the indication of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. It's been so long since you announced that delivery was being difficult! Mrs Deputy, in fact for those who had a solution, you don't understand why it takes so long. On CRESAP, the issue is very simple. We must ask the honourable Member whether or not she agrees with the CRESAP mechanism. You do not agree, but it allows, for example, that a member of the Socialist Party has already been appointed to serve, that a candidate of the Socialist Party has already been appointed to a municipal chamber. And there are many more cases. Let me quote Mr. President of CRESAP, who was the President of PRACE ( Central State Administration Restructuring Programme ), when he said that the old boys did not go through any shouts. And Mr. President of CRESAP said more: that the selection methods aim only to assess merit and advise the government. And he even said he could send money to the air, because the candidates who were chosen would have merited and would be advisable. Madam Member, with regard to the VIP list, parliamentary groups of the majority have always been available to clarify all the outline of this issue. The hearings last week gave exactly the dimension of the problem, that is, there is an internal dimension concerning the Tax Authority and there is a political dimension that has also been explained: the internal dimension caused resignation in the Tax Authority, because they had followed a path that did not have the political backing, and the political decision was precisely in that direction. But now, and because you mentioned Mr. Prime Minister's statements on 11 March, I call to you that the Tax Workers' Union, in Communication No 1 / 2015, says : « Start of the stage of the Tax Inspection, VIP stock exchange nothing ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u295	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u296	Communication No 2 / 2015 : « Meeting with Mr. Director and political parties with parliamentary seat, VIP stock exchange nothing» — we are on 23 January. Communication No 3 / 2015 of 13 February : « Provide workers with a declaration of impartiality... »
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u297	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u298	I'm done now, Mr. President. Communication No 4 / 2015 of 20 February : « The Law of Supplements, the Declaration of Incompatibilities... » Communication No 5 / 2015 of 2 March « Meeting with the Secretary of State for Public Administration...».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u299	Mr President, I would like to thank you for finishing up, because your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u300	Communication No 6 / 2015, two days before the Council of Ministers : « Strike on 13... ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u301	Mr President, I would like to thank you for finishing up, because your time has gone by much longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u302	I'm done now, Mr. President. The blessing of the VIP list appears on March 18. Madam Member, how do you explain this forgetfulness of the Workers' Union of Taxes along this...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u303	Mr President, I would like to thank you for finishing up, because your time has gone by much longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u304	I'm sorry, Mr. President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u305	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u306	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Santos, I will ask you a very direct question. I ask you whether, at the meeting indicated by the Union of Tax Workers on 20 January, in the afternoon of that so-called training action in which a head of the Tax Authority told about 300 trainees that there was a VIP list and that in the afternoon of that day the Union met with the PSD, it is true or not that they, at first hand, said at the meeting—and were not denied by the PSD—that there was a VIP list in the Tax Authority and that this list called into question the rights that all contributors have to equality. I do not know where the PSD is forgotten in this matter, but it seems to me to be of enormous gravity, only supplanted by the incompetence of Mr. Secretary of State. We are talking about incompetence, who has no hand in the State Secretariat that should manage, who does not know what services are doing and who does not guarantee fundamental rights to taxpayers such as the right to equality. Is it incompetence or convivence? I have to tell you that any of the conclusions - and it seems to me that they are the only two possible - are very serious and only have no consequences because this government is in fact no longer ashamed. The Secretary of State is not ashamed that the first thing he should have said was « I resign myself, because I lied to the country, lied to the Assembly of the Republic and did not defend the interests of taxpayers as he should have defended». And you are not ashamed of the government, and now the Minister for Finance, who does not have a single word on this matter, which is silent on this matter, which is incomprehensible. We have a Tributary Authority where you have already rolled the head of the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General, we have a Secretary of State who is holding on to not a blade to power and the Minister says absolutely nothing. How is such a thing possible, Your Honor? We already realize that it is not a question of losing reason; it is a clear demonstration that the Secretary of State does not know what he is talking about, and that is very serious. When asked whether or not there was a VIP list, the Secretary of State did not say that he was going to see or ask, he taxfully said "there is no"!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u307	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u308	I'm done now, Mr. President. When it comes to finding that there is even a VIP list, then he says: « Well, then let's investigate how it appeared». Does this make sense, Your Honor? After all, there was a VIP list, there was a Secretary of State who should not be State Secretary and that matter, in fact, is only understandable from a government that should no longer be government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u309	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware that Mr Cristóvão Crespo's head office readings are the communiqués of the Tax Workers' Union. On the question of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, the debate on this project is already scheduled and what matters is whether the majority approves, if the majority votes in favour. That's what we'd like to hear from here, but that's why you didn't say anything. As for the merit of the candidates for high leadership, Mr. President of the CRESAP said that the short list is made up of three candidates, all of them of equal merit and that one could even throw the coin into the air to choose which one is named! Because this is very curious. Just throw the coin in the air, but... random! , always shut up at the majority's house. It's really punctuation! Tell me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not it is a matter of punctuation. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I am now referring to the size of the list, the administrative dimension and the political dimension of the problem, taking advantage of it to respond to the other two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The administrative consequence has now been withdrawn in the first instance. With great dignity, the two leaders resigned, made their position available to the Minister. What we need to know is the position of the Secretary of State. In fact — and I agree with what has been said — there are only two hypotheses for this problem: either the Secretary of State knew and even participated in the decision, committing illegality and violating the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law, which is serious, or the Secretary of State did not know anything. The ball snaps and he doesn't know where he's going and everything's running around in the services they're protected. So, Mr. Secretary of State is incompetent or uncompetent and has no conditions to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, choose one of the two hypotheses! The fact is that, at the end of the journey, there is only one solution, which is the resignation of this Secretary of State and the withdrawal of responsibilities from the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u311	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u312	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u313	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. I would like to convey to Mrs Isabel Santos and to the other parliamentary groups, particularly the Left Block, which, although they have invoked the Union of Tax Workers, referring to the January 2015 meeting, all the information that the Union provides...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u314	Mr President, what you are saying is not about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u315	Mr President, I would like to ask that a document be distributed. As I was saying, the information provided by the Union to its associates does not contain that information which has been invoked here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u316	Mr President, announce what is the document you are asking the Bureau to distribute and it will be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u317	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u318	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u319	Mr President, it is to ask, in the same way as Mr Crispo used the floor, to be circulated to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, where he states that the head of the Tax Workers' Union said he was here in Parliament at a meeting with the PSD Parliamentary Group, drawing attention to the existence of the VIP list. But nothing has happened, nothing has happened with this information given to the Parliamentary Group, nothing has happened with the information circulating in the media bodies and the government has left itself sitting without making any inquiries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u320	Madam Member, the document will be distributed. I now give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau to take account of legislative initiatives which have now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u321	Mr. President and Mr. Members gave the Bureau the following draft laws: No 828 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ( CFP ) ; No 829 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September, which establishes the exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and defines the terms applicable to the regularization of urban areas of illegal genesis during the time period established in it ( PS, PS and CDS-PP ) ; No 830 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeals Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April, which sets out the criteria for categorizing the services and establishments of the National Health Service ( SNS ) ( BE ), which has not been admitted ; and No 831 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). The following legislative proposals were also entered: No 308 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents and approves its Statute in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organisation and operation of professional public associations; No 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Advocates' Order in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organisation and operation of professional public associations; ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Notaries, approved by Decree-Law No 27 / 2004 of 4 February in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and amending the Statute of the Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 26 / 2004 of 4 February; No 311 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Medical Order, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; No 312 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Nurses, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and the opinion of the Order of Nurses; and No. 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public vocational schools, within the framework of non-superior education, introducing clarifications to their respective schemes. The following draft resolutions were added to the Bureau: No 1363 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to protect and support apicola activity ( PCP ) ; No 1364 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the Charter on Family Agriculture adopted in 7. the Congress of the CNA and Family Agriculture ( PCP ) ; No 1365 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — End with losses and constraints of livestock production caused by alcateia attacks ( PCP ) ; point 1366 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent conclusion of the Lower Mondego hydro-agricultural work ( PCP ) ; No 1367 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ) ; No 1368 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent resumption and completion of the integrated development plan of the Low Vouga lagoon ( PCP ) ; point 1369 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ) ; No 1370 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Conclusion of the variant to EN222 ( PCP ) ; No 1371 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening the provision of health care at Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital, Guimarães ( PCP ) ; No 1372 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Support for the populations and the economy of the Third Island affected by the decision of the US staff reduction authorities of the Lajes Base ( PCP ) ; No 1373 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of a strategy for the deepening of citizenship and the democratic and political participation of young people ( PSD ) ; No 1374 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an integrated and effective strategy for the recovery of local agents and products with a special focus on proximity markets ( CDS-PP ) ; point 1375 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the immediate admission of professionals indispensable to the proper functioning of INEM ( PS ) ; No 1376 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with the construction of the IC35 between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1377 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures promoting the good and effective performance of the Child and Youth Protection Commissions ( PS ) ; point 1378 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the completion of the construction of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ) ; No 1379/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and compliance with the legislation applicable to them ( PS ) ; No 1380 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the industrial zone located on the road axis constituted by the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira and Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca, through their connection to the motorways A32 and A1 ( PSD and CDS-PP ), No 1381 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the industrial area of the lavagueiras, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, through its connection to A32 ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; No 1382 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the resources of the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ) as well as the recruitment of the necessary professionals ( BE ) ; point 1383 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of public management of the Hospital de S. João da Madeira ( BE ) ; No 1384 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of public management of the Hospital de Santo Tirso ( BE ) ; and No 1385 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the continuation of the gynecology/obstetrics service at the Hospital de Guimarães and the repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u322	Mrs. Members, we then turn to the debate on the second item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 411 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the material and human conditions for the effective fulfilment of the role of child and youth protection committees ( PCP ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1377 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures promoting the good and effective performance of child and youth protection committees ( PS ). First of all, to present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout the 16 years of the implementation of the Child and Youth Protection Act, the CFP has been monitoring the progress made and the main difficulties. We note that despite the dedicated and committed work of the actors in the child and youth protection committees ( CPCJ ), the violence of the economic and social situation and the lack of human resources undermine the effective intervention capacity of many CPCJs. In the annual evaluation report of the CPCJ activity, the main difficulties in the shortage of technicians and the need for more regular presence monitoring were identified. No one here will have the courage to say that the rights of children and young people are not to be respected and no one here will have the courage to say that CPCJs do not have a very important job. However, if we discuss the need to hire more social security technicians to work with families, there will no longer be consensus. The most up-to-date data for 2012 says: « CPCJs accompanied 69 000 children and their families. of the total protection measures, 89, 4 % are in the natural environment of life, i.e. follow-up with parents or other family members. of approximately 330 CPCJ, only 53 have composition in the restricted mode of the five valences provided for in the law and, in the restricted mode of CPCJ, there are only 192 technicians with availability between 29 and 35 hours per week. Of the 289 social security technicians, 175 are available one day a week. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many CPCJs do not even have a full-time technician and they all lack technicians. In the CPCJ of Sintra Oriental, two social security technicians came out to replace workers who went to requalification, leaving without follow-up the Fregueses of Queluz and Agualva-Cacém. In Western Sintra CPCJ, a social security technician came out to replace a worker who went to requalification, having only three technicians, each with more than 300 assigned processes. In the CPCJ of Amadora, there are 1600 processes, six technicians and only one of social security. At CPCJ de Olhão, there are 391 processes, a medium-time social security technician, a technique of the authority and two trainees. In CPCJ Santiago do Cacém, there are 115 processes and a medium-time social security technician, who also accompanies CPCJ de Sines. This situation is unacceptable and directly responsible to the PSD/CDS Government for the contempt for the lives of these families, for the failure to comply with the measures to protect the rights of these children. And the deresponsibility of successive governments has corresponded to the responsibility of the authorities in the dynamisation of restricted committees. In view of this, the CFP presents solutions: recruitment of all missing social security technicians; strengthening the number of social security technicians, where the ratio of one technician to every 50 active processes is exceeded; effective accountability and signature of protocols with social security, education and health; definition of the financial framework supporting the CPCJs from the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u324	For an intervention, Mr João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An abandoned child, a abused child, an insecure child, a homeless child, a hungry child, a child without access to health care, a child without a life plan and without a measure to promote paternity, because this government prevents some families from adopting them. All of them, in this country, make 37 220 children who are today most vulnerable and most unprotected by the state. And they are because of this government because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Government began to withdraw 153 senior technicians who were accompanying CPCGs to replace the 700 social security officials who were dismissed and accused of being out of office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u326	They weren't fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u327	It is the overthrow of the system of protection of children and young people, which has already existed in Portugal since 1911 in the face of a law created by Afonso Costa. The Socialist Party today wants to leave a word here to all volunteers, to all institutions in this country that exercise their citizenship, supporting these children and CPCJs. When the Minister of Finance says that we have the safes full, the mark of this government is given by this insensibility: 37 220 children were abandoned by the government. This is a disgrace and an indignity for a democratic rule of law! Even last week, we heard the Prime Minister say that he would create a child's agenda to facilitate and improve the adoption system and we, a month ago, had here the majority PSD/CDS to prevent children who do not have a life project from being adopted by families who in Portugal want to adopt. It is in order to overcome this situation that the Socialist Party is presenting today this draft resolution. But in this draft resolution we are also making a challenge and we urge the PSD and the CDS to set off in relation to what was started yesterday, with the withdrawal of 153 CPCJ technicians. We also urge the PSD and the CDS not to abandon these children to their own fate and for that it is very simple: it is enough that they approve the draft resolution that the Socialist Party, today, presents here, because it has four very simple and easy to approve to protect these children. They are as follows: to maintain the 153 superior technicians who began yesterday to be removed from the CPCJ; to strengthen cooperation between the various ministries so that those technicians who are attached to the CPCJ can effectively participate in the activities and meetings of the enlarged committee; to maintain the financial support to the municipal chambers, which have been the support and the guarantee of the functioning of these committees; and, finally, to strengthen the component of training, which is a crucial element for technicians to work, and to work well with these children. For all this, we cannot say, as Exupéry said, in the work The Prince, that we should be patient with these adults. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u328	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today two legislative initiatives, one of the Communist Party and the other of the Socialist Party, which concern the protection committees of children and young people. First of all, in my speech, I would like to highlight the important role played by the committees to protect children and young people in the promotion of rights and in the support of children in order to ensure their well-being and their full development. And the proper functioning of these committees, which is also to ensure an effective response to these children, is a concern of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u330	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u331	That is why the Government has taken a number of measures and has improved some of the operations of the past. I begin by recalling the reports already mentioned here. The reports assessing the operation and performance of CPCJs were drawn up annually. At present, with this government, these reports are semi-annual.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u332	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u333	What does this allow? This allows, in a faster and more effective way, the situation is detected and it is also obvious, in a faster and more effective way, to the dangers that these children are subject to, so as to protect them and ensure their full development. This is an amendment which has already been recognised here, in this House, as being very positive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group cannot follow the initiatives under discussion today. And it cannot, of course, for two reasons: firstly, because it starts from facts that do not correspond to reality... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... and then because they come to propose situations and measures that are already being taken by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u334	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u335	I'll mention them. In December 2014, an agreement was signed between the representative unions of the social and solidarity sector and the Ministries of Health, Education and Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, in which a commitment is made to strengthen the representation and partnership between the entities with competence in childhood and youth in the CPCJ.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u337	In addition to the training of committees and their technicians, the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk (CNPCJR) has promoted a set of training actions to promote the operation and training of technicians. Similarly, an amount of EUR 12, EUR 6 million is included in the new Community framework for this specific purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2014 more than EUR 5, EUR 9 million was transferred to the authorities. It is in the social security budget for 2015 a value of EUR 6, EUR 1 million, to be transferred. For these reasons, we cannot actually follow these initiatives. This Government, Mr and Mr. Members, it expresses the sensitivity of looking at CPCJs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u338	That's a lot! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u339	... strengthening its technical component, but also safeguarding the financial mechanisms for its technicians to acquire new skills in this area for better and better protection of children and young people. And I must tell Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u340	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u341	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, I must tell the Socialist Party Member that, more than once, he insisted that there were dismissals, that there were no dismissals — the Members. Members know the truth, but insist on not telling the truth, what has been a process of re-qualification in order to strengthen and restructure services, adapting them to new needs and realities. And I remember...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u342	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u343	... that at no time is called into question the strengthening of technicians and the functioning of CPCJs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u344	Every day it's called into question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u345	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through the PS and PCP projects, we have another opportunity to discuss with this House what happens with CPCJs, with primary intervention and what concrete measures the government has implemented. And it was good that this discussion was not polluted by demagogy and populism, because the subject is quite serious. The work that has been done in this area respects three essential principles: the efficiency of resolution and monitoring of each case, the importance of early intervention and respect for the subsidiary nature of CPCJs. In other words, we have always considered the urgency of giving prompt and efficient referral to open processes and not allowing, as it happened, the processes to take five years to be resolved and completed. But the projects we are discussing today go beyond the essentials of what is a CPCJ and omit, or because they do not know or do not want, what measures have been developed — some of them even created by the PS — to respond both to the signs of children and young people at risk and to the follow-up of each case and of each process. In this way, in particular, in the PS project, it is necessary to make several considerations, the first of which is the following: in the requalification process, it is important to remember that persons covered by CPCJ functions will be replaced in a timely manner. They are already identified who will replace them — mostly psychologists and graduates in social service — in order to ensure their regular functioning and multidisciplinary character. This guarantee has already been given not only to the Members. Members of the Government, as well as even the President of the National Commission. Second, as regards the strengthening of cooperation between the various ministries and the improvement of partnerships between entities with competence in the field of children and young people, the PS is asking for exactly what the government has already done, until, of course, this cooperation is a dynamic process that must always be updated. Third consideration: on the transfer to municipalities of resources for the operation of CPCJs, we remember that the participation in 2014 was about EUR 6 million, i.e. the problem is not in the money transferred, the problem is in the will of some municipalities, which are often limited to transferring the money they receive from the Social Security Institute and are often not an active part in the management or operation of CPCJs. And about this, it was really nice to know what PS and PCP think. However, and despite all this, it is important to stress that, although unnecessary and, in some ways, hollow, the PS proposals have at least the merit of not falling into the demagogy of the CFP. The CFP, disregarding the subsidiary nature of the CPCJs and their multidisciplinary nature, aims to make them autonomous and thus less efficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u347	If it weren't for the authorities, it wouldn't have worked.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u348	CPCJs, contrary to what the CFP understands, should not be a separate body, with money transferred directly from the State budget, as if a State institute or secretary were treated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u349	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u350	On the contrary, it is with the social network, the various ministries and authorities that this work of monitoring children and young people at risk should be done to have results. [[PCP protests.]] To conclude, we only regret that none of the projects refers to the fact that in 2014 we had for the first time national coverage of the early intervention network — created by the PS — more than 1500 children covered than in 2011, more agreements concluded and more than half a million euros invested per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u351	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u352	We also find it strange that there has been no strengthening of local intervention teams, which now support more than 7000 children, or do not recognize that strengthening in this area should be done in primary intervention, in schools and in early intervention—there are today more agreements and more responses to families and children—or that the new family support centres which focus on their intervention within families and are directed towards territories where CPJs have greater procedural volume. But if they didn't know, at least they'll know now. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u353	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u354	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives we are discussing today, a PCP bill and a PS resolution project are going exactly towards strengthening the protection committees of children and young people at risk. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS have endeavoured here to bring us the work of the government in this area. I think it's an in vain effort. We can say that there is an improvement in reports. Indeed, the reports have become more and are important instruments in this area, but the truth — and you do not like it to be said — is that there are today CPCJs that do not work, who do not have technicians. Examples have already been given here either in regions of greater population density—see the case of Sintra — or even in the regions of the interior — see the case of Santiago de Cacem and Sines. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are these committees working? Tell us if they are! They're not! Why aren't they working? Because they took the technicians away. That they were not fired—they say. Yeah, no! But it will be, because, at the end of a year of requalification, those who are not civil servants are dismissed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u355	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u356	And there are many, and you know that! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The protection of children and young people is a constitutional desire. The government is responsible for this protection, and it is not worth making them irresponsible. You must comply with the Constitution! The protocols referred to in one of the projects are the accountability of the ministries, which should have very clear intervention in this area, despite other interventions, of course, because nothing is static, there must be early intervention, there must be primary intervention, there must be various interventions not only in the protection committees, but also in other areas. However, the primary responsibility — and this is what the Left Block defends — is the government and it is the ministries that have to take on that responsibility. Otherwise, we enter a logic of deprotection or deresponsibility that necessarily leads to deprotection. On the other hand, it is also necessary for this intervention to be accompanied by enhanced skills, with continuous training of its technicians. We want not only numerical reports; we want reports that show us that intervention is of quality and that this intervention has, in fact, an expression in improving the lives of children and families, but particularly of children, who are the most fragile link, children to whom this government has done so badly with its social policies! And it's data that shows us that poverty has a child's face, and you want to hide this whole situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u357	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u358	That is why we are following the legislative initiatives here today in debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u359	The Bureau also records the registration of the Members. Deputies João Paulo Pedrosa and Rita Rato, who, however, do not have much time to intervene. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u360	Mr President, I shall be very brief. In order not to say that the interventions of the majority were totally vicarious, it is appropriate to say that we came here to talk about « garlic» and answered us « bugs». They came to talk to us about reports. But we are not talking about reports; we are saying that on 10 July 2009 a competition was opened for senior technicians for the performance of the responsibility of the Social Security Institute, affected by the protection committees of children and young people at risk. It was to 153 technicians and it is these 153 that the government is currently withdrawing from the CPCJ! So it's not about reports we're talking about! If the Member of the CDS says that everything we have presented here is done very well, I would like to thank her for the initiative. And he said it, in contrast to the PCP project. But then, adopt our draft resolution! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u361	We propose simple things: maintaining 153 technicians, maintaining financial support for authorities and cooperation between ministries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u362	We vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u363	Confirm! So they give a substrate, so let us say, support and comfort to these institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u364	Mrs Rita Rato, you also have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party project prevents the transfer of 153 technicians and therefore we follow this objective, but it does not solve the fundamental problem, which is the need to hire more technicians and allocate more means. from the PCP, we will follow the Socialist Party project and it was also important that the opposite happened. With regard to PSD and CDS, there is here a total unavailability to discuss these matters and a total contempt for these children and families. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u366	It is a deep contempt, because the best way to value the work of CPCJs is to give them working conditions, not to withdraw technicians. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u367	The best way to appreciate the work of technicians working day and night, often at the expense of their personal lives, is to ensure more colleagues to work and accompany families, because 89 % of the measures are carried out with families. Commissions say that the main problem is working with families in person. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What does this government do? Remove means to CPCJs! Therefore, this government does everything that was not necessary to do in relation to the work of the CPCJs. Mr. CDS Member, did you come here to talk about the efficiency of the authorities? If it wasn't, today, many authorities in this country, the CPCJs didn't work,... [[Exactly!]] [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u368	... because CPCJs operate in the premises of the authorities, with the fundamental support of the authorities, when the responsibility is of the central State. Therefore, the decision that this Government would have to make was to guarantee the right means.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u369	Thank you for finishing up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u370	I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it is unacceptable that we are facing a situation where 175 social security technicians have one day a week to devote themselves to the protection of children and young people at risk. Is this the criterion they have for the protection of fundamental rights? Oh, my God! We understand that this should not be the case and therefore we will continue to beat ourselves so that it is not so, because this proposal was made and built in a public hearing with the protection committees,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u371	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u372	... listening to your concerns and collecting your contributions. You're working for the troika! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u373	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate on the second item of our agenda, we move on to the third point, which consists in the assessment of petition No 395 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Submitted by Paulo Rui Lopes Pereira da Silva and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to preserve the right of the Vimarans to continue to be born in Guimarães, together with draft resolutions 1371 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening health care at Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital, Guimarães ( PCP ) and 1385 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the continuation of the gynecology/obstetrics service at the Hospital de Guimarães and the repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April ( BE ). To present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are, of course, for the more than 5000 citizens who have subscribed to the petition in debate and who today, once again, bring to this Parliament the need to discuss one of the many measures that the PSD/CDS-PP government have taken of attack and destruction of the National Health Service ( SNS ). Ordinance No 82 / 2014 has, in the specific case of the Guimarães hospital, an extremely negative impact if applied, because they are concerned are not only the valences of which this petition speaks — neonatology, pediatric intensive care or the question of the block of births, gynecology and obstetrics —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u375	Gynecology, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u376	... but also essential services that are provided with quality by Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital, such as cardiology services and intensive care of cardiology. What the CFP also proposes is that, in addition to the repeal of the Ordinance, the Government should proceed, in a timely and rapid manner, to the fulfilment of a promise that has already come from previous governments: the rehabilitation of the emergency service of that hospital. This hospital needs the population of Guimarães, it needs the population of the district of Braga. These are the concrete measures we are presenting here, these are the measures with which PSD and CDS-PP should commit themselves. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u377	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u378	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to welcome the more than 5000 citizens who have subscribed to the petition under discussion and who are addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, expressing their opposition to the closure of the maternity ward of the hospital in Guimarães. The petitioners argue, and well, that the application of Ordinance No. 82 / 2014, which was supposed to reorganize the hospital network of our country and categorize the services and establishments of the SNS, will lead to the end not only of the maternity hospital of Guimarães, but also of other maternity homes in our country, to no longer speak of some services of excellence, particularly in the field of cardiology. Today, however, we are discussing in particular a petition relating to the maternity of the Guimarães hospital and that is where I would like to focus. It appears that, when questioned by the Government by the rapporteur of this petition about her intentions regarding this particular maternity, the Government replied that no closure of services in the area of maternal and child health in Guimarães is planned and that, on the contrary, it is planned to be strengthened. Extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! So, how does Portaria No. 82 / 2014 support itself, which, by the way, the government itself wants to put in the drawer? Oh, my God! A reorganization of hospitals and the hospital network of this caliber, such as the Left Block, insistently, has denounced it, is not done by door. It's not for the office, practically an administrative act of the government! This Ordinance has only one solution: its revocation. Let us hope that this House will be able to recommend this to the Government: the repeal of the Ordinance, which neither the Government applies but which is there and is causing concern to the people of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u379	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u380	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that this legislation is not really to be taken seriously. For this reason, the Left Block presents a draft resolution recommending the repeal of Ordinance No 82/2014 and maintaining and strengthening the services of gynecology and obstetrics in the hospital of Guimarães. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u381	For an intervention, you have the floor, Mrs Francisca Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Guimarães is the town-town and the cradle cannot fail to be the cradle of those who want to be born there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u383	This is the motto of the petitioners, whom I naturally associate with, not only because I myself was born in Guimarães but, essentially, because I know well the reality they refer to in the petition we are discussing today. I believe that, fortunately, the concerns that were at the root of the initiative here today are beyond discussion. That is exactly what Mrs Helena Pinto mentioned in her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u384	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u385	... i.e. the answer that the Minister of Health gave precisely in the context of this petition and I quote again that there is no doubt: « No closure of services in the area of maternal and child health is planned before, on the contrary, there is a provision for the strengthening of resources in this area(...) ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u386	Also in response to a question put to you not only by myself but also by Members of other parties said Mr. Minister of Health, and again I quote: « The door does not determine the location of maternity, first ensuring that all institutions offer gynecology valence with the appropriate resources, and there is no change to the current maternity network (including obstetrics). Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not, however, want to focus solely on the question put in the petition today because I know that the concerns concerning the Hospital Centre of the High Ave have been transversal to the various services not specifically referred to in Group I of Ordinance No 82 / 2014. In this regard, I myself, so other Members of different parliamentary groups, who seem to ignore this information here, asked the Minister of Health, who answered us in the following terms, and I quote: "as mentioned by the Minister of Health, not only is there not only provision for the loss of valences by this hospital establishment,..." — The Hospital Center of Upper Ave— "... as this same unit has also benefited from an additional amount of EUR 23 million for the capital increase to be made". With regard to the emergency service, the CFP includes in its project a recommendation that the renovation works of this service be carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u388	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u389	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a redundant recommendation, but which, of course, we cannot object. It is that requalification has already been announced, this is a priority work whose project is already under way, with a working group in the context of the Hospital Center, which has developed, as far as we know, the necessary procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u390	Because there's a lot of work doesn't mean there's a work!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese, in particular, the users of the Hospital Center of Upper Ave, are entitled to a health service of excellence and quality, regardless of any door office or any other legal instrument. And that is what this Parliamentary Group will require of this or any other government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u392	Mr Altino Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are here today discussing a petition, which has more than 5000 subscribers, and also two draft resolutions, one from the PCP and one from the Block. Indeed, this petition, under the theme "I want my children to be born in Guimarães", is a legitimate and fair claim, it is a claim we subscribe, even myself, as the father of two daughters who were born exactly in this Hospital Center. Therefore, if the termination of maternity was concerned, I would also be on the side of those who defend the non-closure. I therefore understand that at the moment this is a non-case, of course, because the port would not determine the maternity network itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u394	Determining!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u395	The Left Block brings us here a draft resolution, which was initially a bill, and in this draft resolution accuses the Government of making a convenient and electoralist reading of the portal. Just see, even, the very change of the bill to draft resolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u396	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u397	...and the arguments to realize at which stage of electoralism we are already, at this time of year. The PCP, in addition to coming with its demagogy, also has an inaccuracy in its draft resolution, when it says that the application of this door would mean the destruction of an important part of the services of the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, speaking concretely in gynecology, which the door itself does not say and therefore that is a falsehood. [[Say, say!]] [[Say, say!]] [[Say, say!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u398	No, don't say! As far as hospital services are concerned, what has happened is exactly the opposite. There is a 30-bed reinforcement in Guimarães hospital and there is a medical reinforcement—in the last two years 46 doctors have been hired. But we should concentrate, because time is little, exactly on the question of re-qualification of the urgencys of the hospital in Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u399	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u400	I'm done now, Mr. President. In 2006, the hospital administrator and also Minister Ana Jorge, on a visit to the hospital, admitted that it was necessary to remodel the emergency service. They also admitted in an answer to a question I asked in 2010 that the works would start at the end of 2010. What they did was absolutely nothing and what this government did, when the Socialist Party handed him the government of a broken country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u401	So it was the Socialist Party that handed over the government? Oh, my God! This is not a monarchy! It's not just parents for kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u402	... with the empty safes, with more than EUR 3000 million in debts of the National Health Service, it was exactly to make these payments, adjust the National Health Service and now, yes, we have to demand that the government remodel the urgents of the hospital in Guimarães. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u403	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me also to begin by greeting the petitioners with the theme « I want my children to be born in Guimarães », who ask, in addition to maintaining maternity at the Hospital of Our Lady of Oliveira, in Guimarães, to revoke the door that categorizes the services and establishments of the National Health Service. The Socialist Party's position in this debate is based on four fundamental points. First: this would be part of a fundamental error, because it was made without the involvement of the autarchs, health professionals and the population and, therefore, it was, and is, challenged by the autarchs, by the health professionals and by the population, as this petition well demonstrates. Secondly, this portfolio was announced by the government as a fundamental part of the reform of hospital care, but it was almost immediately discredited by the government itself, which, to any problem that would raise it, immediately said that it was not to apply. This portfolio is a good example of the incompetence and inconsistency of many decisions of this government. And the example is precisely in the Government's reply to the petitioners regarding the maternity of the Hospital of Our Lady of Oliveira in Guimarães, in which, in fact, as already mentioned here, the Minister responds to the petitioners saying that the termination of maternity is not planned at the Hospital. However, the office which Mr Minister and the Government have approved, Mrs and Mrs. Members — and Mr Altino Bessa, who should not have read the Portaria carefully — define the groups of hospitals that have various services, including Obstetrics and Gynecology.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u405	It does not define the maternity network!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u406	Now, Guimarães hospital is in the group that has a gynecology service but does not have an obstetric service, and therefore loses the maternity service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u407	That's against what the PCP says! [[Protests by BE Helena Pinto and PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u408	This was the reply given by the Minister to these petitioners, but it was also the reply given by the Minister to all those who throughout the country raised problems regarding the valences that each of the hospitals concerned would no longer have. from that point the Socialist Party's third point in this debate: — if the door is not to be applied, the same is revoked. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, I vote for this House in favour of revoking this door. And if this is not the first time we have discussed this issue, then it is the second chance for the majority to make a good decision, in fact, having some consistency that the government has failed to have. The fourth point, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the National Health Service needs stability, which cannot be achieved with such decisions. Therefore, if the process of adopting the door was wrong, if the door's decisions are wrong and denied by the government itself, we approve its revocation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u409	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u410	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs Francisca Almeida, who was also born in Guimarães, like me, voted in favour of the revocation of this door. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u411	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor. It does not have much time, so I hope you will use it in the best way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u412	Mr President, Mrs Francisca Almeida, Mr Altino Bessa, you reveal your ignorance and do not read the door, because in fact, in order to have a motherhood there must be a gynecology and obstetric service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u413	It's on the gate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u414	Mr. Deputies, you are here: gynaecology. There is no gynecology and obstetrics!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u415	It's gynecology!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u416	Mrs. Francisca Almeida, of promises is the population of satisfied Guimarães! This promise that a working group has been set up to do the remodeling works in the emergency service already has beards, Mrs. Francisca Almeida, and what is important is not the promise, not that it has been constituted a working group, but that it is actually done the remodeling works of the emergency service, so that people have dignity in the provision of care,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u417	Already in 2006 they promised that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u418	...to enable professionals to be able to provide health care to that population. [[PCP applause.]] And Mrs. Member, who says she is very proud to be of Guimarães and to have been born in Guimarães, just as Mr. Altino Bessa says she is proud to have been born there, are not actually looking after the interests of the population of Guimarães,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u419	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u420	... they are not looking out for the interests of the population of the Braga district, because if they were watching for these interests, they voted on the draft resolution that is presented here by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-25.u421	We have concluded the last item on our agenda. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the following agenda item: first item, joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1284 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government concerted action between authorities, regional government of the Azores and Parliament in negotiations with the US Government on the Lajes Base ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1296 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of an emergency plan that minimizes the effects of the reduction of civilian personnel at the service of the U.S. military forces at the Lajes Base ( BE ), 1294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures that minimize the social and economic impact of reducing the American presence at the Lajes Base ( PS ) and 1372 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Support for populations and the economy of the Third Island, affected by the decision of the US personnel reduction authorities of the Lajes Base ( PCP ). The second point is the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1029 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel - Entre-os-Rios ) ( BE ), 1031 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN326 between Arouca and access to IP1 / A1 in Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ), 1032 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the conclusion of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( BE ), 1011 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of supplementary route No 35 ( IC35 ), launch Penafiel - Entre-os-Rios, and variant Arouca - Santa Maria da Feira ( PS ), 1369 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ), 1370 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Conclusion of the variant to EN222 ( PCP ), 1376 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government advance with the construction of the IC35 between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios ( CDS-PP ), 1378 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the completion of the construction of the variant to EN222 between Pedorido ( Castelo de Paiva ) and Canedo ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ), 1380 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Valuation of the industrial zone located on the road axis constituted by the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca through their connection to the A32 and A1 ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1381 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the industrial area of the lavagueiras, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva, through its connection to A32 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Third point: joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1094 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete measures to ensure the operationality of medical emergency means ( PCP ), 1307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ), 1375 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the immediate admission of professionals indispensable to the proper functioning of INEM ( PS ) and 1382 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ) and the recruitment of the necessary professionals ( BE ). Fourth point: joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 792 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September ( Legal System of Higher Education Institutions ), strengthening the democratic management of institutions ( PS ), 828 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ( CFP ) and 831 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how our work today is completed. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 10 minutes.]]
