ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u1	Mrs. Members, Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. As everyone knows, today's agenda consists of an appeal to the Government, appeal No 20 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the destruction of public transport supply, of the Left Block initiative. Before we start the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the drafts of lein.o 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates on road infrastructure ( PS ), which falls to 1. a and 6. a Commission, 772 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by complying with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention ) ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 773 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November determining the exemption from the payment of moderate fees to children and young people up to the age of 18 ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 774 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 5 / 2011 of 2 March approving the Law of Portuguese Honorary Orders, integrating the Order of Trucks under the National Orders ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 775 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The draft resolutions Nos 1251 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Announces the public tender for the sub-concession of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 1252 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Announces the public tender procedure for the sub-concession of STCP — Corporation for Collective Transport of Port, SA(BE), 1253 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — For the suspension of demolition on the Isles of the Formosa River ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1254 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In defence of the national railway — for the reunification and integrated management of the railway against its liquidation and dismemberment ( CFP ), which falls at 5 p.m. a and 6. a Commission, 1255 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By maintaining the public management of the companies Sociedade de Transportes Coletivos do Porto ( STCP ) and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes ) and 1256 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — National programme for the enhancement and expansion of the public network of specialized artistic education ( CFP ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u3	Let us start the debate which, as I announced, consists of interpellation No 20 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the destruction of public transport supply, of the Left Block initiative. To open the debate, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little left for the government than for teimosia and authoritarianism. Within months of the completion of his mandate and against the almost unanimous opinion of Portuguese society, he is running against time to deliver TAP, railway maintenance and public transport in Lisbon and Porto to private interests. Where caution would be advised, the government is speeding up, risking the confirmation of the illegality of some of the contests it has launched. Where an extended agreement would be advised, the government prefers the conflict and advances in open war against the authorities. from the controversial calendar chosen to the financial needs, from the supposed advantages to the state safes to the public interest, nothing goes right. Nothing but an immense will to pass on to the private, which is still being public. I would say better: an immense willingness to deliver what is public to whoever it is, because the government's ideological campaign against public management, which is incompetent by nature and spell, only applies to Portugal. The energy was delivered to Chinese or Qatari public companies and now PSD and CDS want to pass the transports from the city of Porto to the transport company of Catalonia. The problem, after all, is not so much being public, but not having a private logic and being able to be claimed and scolded by the citizens. contrary to what the right likes to make believe, the discussion on the nature of the management of transport companies is neither, nor can it be, summarized to the financial costs for taxpayers. In fact, the progressive transformation, operated in the discourse on the right, of the citizen as a contributor, is not innocent. What is in confrontation is the defense of a logic of purely private management, to the detriment of the public interest that reconciles mobility with the environment, social costs and quality of life of the largest cities in our country. The government likes to shake the numbers of charges that the Portuguese have with the transport companies. The simplicity of the argument seems to be seductive, but as it almost always happens with this government, it is very not serious. Firstly, because « forgets » that most of this expenditure is the result of accumulated debt for years and years of underfinancing, and that this debt has now been transferred to the State. With the continued increase in passes and tickets and in assuming the historical debt of these companies, the Government has tried to 'clean up' the charges for handing them to the private. It is worth everything to attract private people, who are left with the most lucrative lines of CP, metro or buses, in exchange for a terrible deal for Portuguese, who will continue to pay more than 4 billion debt and will keep transport even more expensive. We've lost all the boards. Let us see Fertagus, for example, that being the only private-managed train line is a good example of what will happen if the government takes its lead. Fertagus manages the railway link between Lisbon and the South Margin. Investment in infrastructure was all public and for more than a decade received compensatory compensation higher than that of the CP. Well, even after the gross increases in public transport, the price per kilometre remains between 20 % and 40 % higher in this private operator. Well the government can ensure that prices will not rise. The practice and history of private transport companies speaks for themselves. If, however, the argument is not convincing enough, then look at the National Road and the results of its privatization. Private companies have multiplied, but also, through this country outside, have multiplied villages without access to any type of collective transport. It is not only the mobility and sovereignty that are at stake with this privatisation wave, but also the little that remains of our industrial capacity in this area. What does it mean to import railway maintenance services, while dismantling EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) and wasting the unique and irreplaceable knowledge of its workers? What does it mean to abdicate from having a cargo railway company, while talking about the priority of exports? Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members, the legacy of this Government in the field of public transport is known: less supply, more and more delayed waiting times, prices to always rise and, as a result, the number of passengers transported in freefall. With the end of the passage at reduced prices for children of school age and with the exponential increase in rates, a family with three people living in the city of Lisbon or in the city of Porto, saw their account for transport increase €40 or €50, in a country where the average wage is €800 and most of the population receives the national minimum wage. If this family lives on the outskirts, then the increase in transport prices can reach 100 € per month. It is not surprising, therefore, that urban transport lost 120 million passengers in the years of the government's mandate. The reduction in mobility in transport also has costs, Mr Secretary of State: in the infernal traffic of cities, in the hours that are lost in rows, in the growing pollution, in the productivity that is lost in the economy, in the exclusion of citizens from the right to mobility. The question, therefore, is not how much it costs us public transport companies and if we can afford to bear it, but how much it will cost us all to privatize them and if we can afford it. We can't! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The same private logic, forgetting the importance that the flag company has in its own definition of sovereignty of the country, has been followed in the TAP. The same confusion in the second privatisation process — here with the novelty of being the first privatization of PSD and CDS where José Luís Arnaut does not « enter the noise», but the same rush to advance at all costs, before the elections trace the future of this government. We repeat a thousand times and as many as necessary: TAP speaks our language, joins the continent to the islands, the country to its emigrants, Portuguese rescue at risk anywhere in the world. And this happens because it's a national public capital company. All these services will, yes, be concerned with their privatisation. What interests will the capitals keep, you know where, in connection with TAP to your country? And if they shoot us, and they're going to shoot, with the warranties in the bill of charges, we respond with the increase of 33 % in the ANA air fares, or with the consumer credits imposed by CTT, which in two years have already given 125 million dividends to their private owners, including JP Morgan. This is the history of privatization in this country. Before privatisation, the government fires employees, increases prices and limits the quality of the service to make the company more profitable and attractive to private capital. After privatization, the privates redeploy employees again, increase prices even more and further limit the quality of services to increase their profits. We lose twice: in the taxes we pay and in the highest transport prices, with the worst quality. What is at stake is whether we look at companies that are sustainable and even profitable, in many cases, as a commission or as an opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « winding up or privatizing » was not just an unfortunate expression of the Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro. In fact, ‘liquid or privatize’ is the most condensed translation of the unfortunate government's view of everything that is public. For our part, the choice is clear: we reject Excel's policy and business. Defending balanced accounts, we do not forget the social, economic and environmental costs of the degradation of public transport in Portugal. So here we are, along with so many others, to defend them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u5	At the opening stage of the inquiry, I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the opportunity for the debate here today, for the importance that the sector has for the mobility of people and goods throughout the territory. Since 2011 the Government has devoted much of its work and effort to the survival and development of the public transport service, and it is pleased that we see that the Left Block has dedicated a few days to visit companies and schedule this debate. It is never too late for this debate and the Left Block is certainly welcome. Although the sharing of arguments and motivations may not be consistent between the Left Block and the Government, I believe that we share a common desire for companies to provide the best possible service to Portuguese people. The opportunity for this debate brings us back to the beginning of the course, more precisely in June 2011. The analyses must be done on the basis of the situation with which the Portuguese were unintentionally confronted: the country was rescued financially, no one else lent us money so that we could do things as simple and acquired as paying the education of our young people, giving basic health care to our citizens or even guaranteeing a public transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u7	It was the end of the world! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u8	Returning to this time of bad memory is to rebuild today, here, the path of our recovery, of the return to full sovereignty that we have conquered, by the end of the redemption and by the commitments we have known, as a people of good account, to honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u9	Poorer and more honest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u10	Returning to 2011 is to revisit the obligation left by the Government of the Socialist Party in the Memorandum of Understanding. An obligation, which was to present in two months a Strategic Transport Plan ( PET ) that the Socialist Party had not been able to present in the previous six years. It was difficult, but Portugal did. The presentation of the PET defined the priorities for action in the sector: meeting the external commitments made by Portugal and making the sector financially balanced and comportable; enhancing the competitiveness and development of our economy; and ensuring the mobility and accessibility of people and goods. PET 2011 - 2015, one of the Government's first sectoral programmes, has also developed a set of principles, endorsed in the electoral programmes of the parties that support the majority and also reflected in the Government Programme. We will alter the institutional architecture, the organization of the sector, with results that are known. But over a decade, corporate debt levels have grown at an unbearable rate for taxpayers, reaching a value of more than EUR 17 billion in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u11	And now how much is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u12	In view of this situation, the priority and urgent objective of sectoral protection was the implementation of a set of reforms aimed at interrupting the path of uncontrolled growth of indebtedness and the balance of operational activity. As a result, today we know that since June 2012 the sector is continuously balanced. This is not only said by the Government ; it is recognised by the OECD, IMF and UTAO and verified by the creditors of Portugal. In other words, we did what they said was impossible to accomplish. The indebtedness pond was another PET target. The debt increased at a rate below the interest rate of the debt. This means that, operationally, companies generated cash flow to serve part of that debt. We split our effort into two phases. in the first phase, the operational restructuring and, in the second phase, in addition to the financial sanitation we have been developing, the change in the role of the State in the sector, opening to the private initiative the activities of operation and exploitation of public passenger transport services. I remind you: in 2011 we said we would open up to the private initiative. There's no desire on our part to do things in a hurry. We planned them in 2011 and are executing them within a mandate that is legitimate, with full powers to do it. We also reviewed in 2015 what PET said in 2011 about the second phase of the programme: «The private initiative should be opened by means of a concession model(...) based on the concession model for the period from 5 to 10 years». That's what we're doing. They will all agree that the Government has followed the programme of the parties that presented the elections. The Government has always had a definite and coherent approach to opening up and modernising the economy. At the same time, while the sector was moving towards operational balance, dishonouring Portuguese taxpayers, and they opened up to private initiative, the strengthening of the role of the State as regulator was drawn up and the transfer of competences to the authorities, so long as it has been claimed, for so many other years promised by governments that they would do so, but never implemented. Now, this government is fulfilling. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The review of the legal regime for public transport will decentralise the competences of the IMT for municipal and inter-municipal transport authorities in the allocation of the regular public passenger transport service, while maintaining the State's financial support to people's mobility through the extension of the social pass + rules, the true social cohesion the sector needs. The grant was completed only for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. The whole country will benefit from a transport policy that has the ideological matrix of the parties that support the government. Everyone's important, no one can stay behind. Reforming the sectors is also democratizing access to their services. Since 2012 we have a pilot project in the Intermunicipal Community of the Middle Tejo, the Portugal Porta-a-Porta programme, which, with almost 150 years of delay in relation to services provided in Lisbon, gives a mobility response to the needs of populations throughout the country. Portugal Porta-a-Porta is the result returned to people of a process that made companies in Lisbon and Porto as well as CP and REFER, more efficient. It costs less than EUR 300 million per year today, essentially by reducing expenditure by 80 % of savings. Since 2011, on a comparable basis, around EUR 800 million has been saved in the sector. For 40 years, it was said that the Portuguese were doomed to chronic operational deficits. They are not, and the evidence is there, since June 2012. It was three years of continuous state reform, which went through the restructuring of the sector, exits by mutual agreement, of almost 3800 people—and, I repeat, by mutual agreement, there was no dismissal in the companies of the sector—in social peace,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u13	In social peace? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u14	... something that contrasts with the apparent challenge promoted by the union dome that promotes strikes that put users further away from public transport and public transport closer to a private operation. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] It is in this way that these organizations have been acting, but that they have had the response, every day, of workers, companies, results and users. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u15	It was three years of continuous deepening of State reform, with a process of privatization registered in the 2011 Memorandum of Understanding, signed by the previous Government, but with the revenue already carried out by it, far above what had been the commitment then assumed. With transparent, competitive, open and praised privatization processes by international organisations such as the European Commission, winners and losers of these processes. A movement of opening up the Portuguese market at key times: first, with the privatisation of ANA, at a time when the markets spoke of exiting Portugal from the euro and opposition to a recessive spiral; then, with the CTTs, which led Portugal to be the first country under financial assistance to launch a privatization in Bolsa, with the success of all recognized. Passengers continue to increase at a scale of more than 10 % per year across the national airport network. And the mail stations are still open and functioning, even though the unfortunate prophets have said no, even though the CTTs are now 100 % private. Portugal has been internationally recognized in these two privatizations, we have been recognized as the most competent in the world in these privatizations, a reputation far different from that we inherited in 2011. And every day, it seems that there is still anyone who wants to associate us with those days of redemption.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u17	The privatisation process generated a financial cash that allowed for cutting public debt, paying less interest and saving the Portuguese to more austerity. In 2015, the last year of the legislature, our reformist momentum cannot stop. Even recently, legislation that creates a single administration for Transtejo, Metro de Lisboa and Carris, as well as a single administration for Estradas de Portugal and REFER, aiming at the merger of these two infrastructure managers, which will contribute with a reduction of expenditure and an increase of revenue over EUR 1000 million over the next five years. And all this reform was carried out without forgetting the most important, which are people. It's for people we work every day in this sector. I shall finish, Madam President, by talking about the future, of the long-term, stable, perennial and consensual vision so that economic agents can also make their investment decisions. in a model of participation that had never been used in Portugal, they joined in the same debate economic agents, industrial associations, public and private operators, infrastructure managers, authorities, CCDR ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees ), in public debate throughout the country, in Parliament itself, and defined PETI3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ) : more growth, more competitiveness, more cohesion, so that everything gets closer. To dynamize the economy and serve people, give mobility to people and goods — this is the transport policy followed by this government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u18	Mr Mariana Mortágua and Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, who opened the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. To ask questions to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Carina Oliveira. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u19	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, once again this House is debating the public transport sector in Portugal, we are once again called to participate in what is a fundamental theme in Portuguese society and in what is also our view of the state — and this is obviously very different. I know that the Left Block bench has a completely different view and that we can hardly change each other's ideas about what is the existence of the private initiative, the model that we have of state, the functioning of the state itself and the way we have, what we have, how we do and how we change that State itself. The honourable Member spoke a lot about interests, wars and ideology. I would like to have a debate without interests, no wars, and much less with ideological ghosts,... [[PCP and BE protests.]] ... whether they are in relation to private initiatives, whether they are in relation to public initiative, whether they are... [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u20	Mrs. Members, you cannot hear Mrs Carina Oliveira. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Freedom is this, it is a debate without taboos. And I would very much like to continue my intervention exactly in these same molds. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there are facts concerning which — and I have noted with interest your intervention — we agree. I'm going to quote them. The financial costs are for taxpayers — nothing more true, Mrs Deputy. For years and years who have paid the public debt of the transport sector are the taxpayers, because the money is everyone's and that's exactly what's happened. The debt has been accumulated year after year—nothing more true, Mrs. For decades we have faced this situation exactly: a chronic and unsustainable debt in the transport sector. How to resolve this situation? The debt situation is not resolved by adding more debt to debt, adding more interest to interest and throwing public money from taxpayers over problems that are systematically not solved — systematically, centuries ago! The honourable Member also spoke about the reforms that have been printed by this government, particularly on the question of the social pass, and also welcomed the real tool that is the social pass — indeed, it became social, became accessible to those who needed it most. And the honourable Member also made a comparison with a family living in Lisbon or in Porto and who needs this social pass. Well, Mrs Deputy, I am also interested in saying here that there are more countries beyond Lisbon and Porto. In addition to Lisbon and Porto, the country also needs access to what is public transport. I greet the Government for the initiative of transport door-to-door. For the first time, the interior of the country also has the right to public transport, it also has the right to subsidize public transport. The interior of the country is not synonymous with inferiority. [[PSD applause.]] I would also like to record, making a small detail in what was an observation by Mrs Deputy when she said that there was a sharp loss, falling in the number of passengers, which, of course, we are all faced with a situation of some instability within the sector itself. But I am also pleased to note that from 2013 to 2014 there was an increase of 195 million passengers per kilometre in this sector. The citizen, who is the taxpayer and who is also the passenger, does not want to know whether the service that is being provided to him is public or private. He wants efficiency in public service, wants to get to the public service he has at his disposal, knowing that the same is not stopped, that he is no longer on strike and that he, citizen, is not again without access to transport to go to work or to go on vacation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u22	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u23	I shall conclude, Madam President. He wants transport to be accessible, efficient and rigorous and workable. Also defending the balance of public accounts, which the honourable Member has also mentioned, I ask you this question: what is the solution to the debt of the transport sector, without adding more debt to debt? That is the solution we all want. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u24	in this model of debate, the time spent discount in global time, but, due to a question of rationality of distribution of times, asked the Sr. Members to stay within the time limit. In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u25	Madam President, Mrs Carina Oliveira, it is good to make it clear that we do not oppose the private initiative,... [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u26	...but we defend public transport and public transport. And it is precisely because we like to come here and be able to debate the public transport that we oppose privatization. Otherwise, the risk we have is that, next year, we will be here just discussing transport, because the public does not exist because all services have been privatized. I do not want to fail to answer two specific questions put by the honourable Member. The first has to do with the opposition of the offer of transport in the interior and in the cities. The fact that the Left Block defends better services in the city, urban, for those who live here does not mean that it is opposed to larger and better inland transport networks. The opposition is created by the right to pretend that there is one opposition that only has more when one has less. Don't! Good public transport is needed in the interior and in the cities. That is why we opposed the dismantling of the CP, the trains that traveled this country, and that was dismantled year after year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u28	That is why we criticized the privatization of the National Road, which ended with road access lines in most of the small towns and villages. So it is not serious to say that we are against inland transport because we want better transport in the city. We want better transports in the city and best transports in the interior. The second question concerns the fact that you say that the government has become the sustainable transport sector. Mrs Deputy, the transport sector is as sustainable as it was in the past. What the government did was take on the debt it was in the transport sector and take it to the State perimeter. The debt, however, has not ceased to increase, so to speak. This debt was financial, resulting from the cumulation of interest and lack of investment in the sector, fruit, imagine, of several PS and PSD governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u30	Therefore, debt has a cause and the cause is who has been in government in recent years, which was also the PSD. It is not worth coming 'to shake the water from the hood' and to blame users for a debt that is financial and that is of poor political management. The third question concerns the operational part. The debt goes to the state. It's the taxpayers who will pay the debt. It was like that before, and it's gonna be. The operational part was already sustainable, but what the government did was thus compressing the service, compressing the quality in such a way, thus increasing the prices that it managed to do what no one else does: putting an operational part of public transport to profit. We say: "Maybe, it makes a profit. But who's going for that profit? Are you going to make better investments in the public network? Don't! Go private! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's why it's incomprehensible. We can spend the whole afternoon discussing and we can't understand why we deliver operational profits from private transport. So I pay the question: why? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u31	11 were registered. Members to address questions to Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications and the Government has already informed the Bureau that Mr. Secretary of State answers in groups of four, four and then three. That being the case, to ask questions, Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u32	Madam President, Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, what is your thinking when you look at the universe of public companies in the field of transport? What do you think? What is the word that happens to you as a political leader and as a ruler? I will reply by the Secretary of State. Only one word happens to you: business—that's the word. In his speech, there is no reflection on the public interest, no concern about the future of the workers of the sector, no concern about the response to the objective needs of the country. And, Mr Secretary of State, he does not use the debt argument in his reply. It is not due to debt, because we already know that the country will pay the debt and lose all the benefit of the service! On the capitalisation of companies by the private sector, we have also been talking about. See the ANA case. What's capitalized? On the contrary, what we see is the increase in taxes and taxes. Is everything okay in the world of public transport companies? No, you're not, Mr. Secretary of State. Don't count on this bench to say it's okay, because it's not! But you, as in charge, throw out what has been built, end with productive capacity and give no guarantee of public service — that word that seems to bother some Members. Members — for the exercise of an increasingly important and irreplaceable democratic right in today's societies: the right of persons to mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u34	Take this opportunity, Mr Secretary of State, and explain to Parliament and to the country what is your strategy for a transport system in our country. What example of total privatization did you draw from the model you want to implement in Portugal? Say there, Mr. Secretary of State! Look at one thing, and I will try to be synthetic: TAP — privatization; STCP — concession; Port Metro — concession; REFER and Portugal Roads — merger process, whatever it is; REFER / Telecom — privatization; REFER Engineering — privatization; Lisbon Metro — concession; Caris — concession; Soflus / CP — concession; CP Loading — privatization; EMEF — privatization; Carristur — privatization; CP Cascais — concession. Mr Secretary of State, you said from the rostrum that the sector is balanced. So the sector is balanced and is this the list of its obsession? Between liquidation and privatization—because we have a Secretary of State for Transport who only knows these two alternatives—what is left, Mr Secretary of State? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u35	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u36	I shall conclude, Madam President. Your obsession with privatization, this radicalism that is so own to you, will lead to the destruction of this fundamental sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u37	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u38	But, Mr Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, you are going against the country, which demands responsibility for what is everyone's and refuses a business that you want to set in motion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u39	The next question is PSD. Mrs. Odete Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, bearing in mind the difficulties that the country and Portuguese have experienced over the past few years, it is also clear that in the coming decades any policy in this area of transport should be based on the binomy growth with budgetary rigour and a long-term reference vision with a view to achieving strategic objectives: to create a true transport policy, based on reforms that fit the needs of Portuguese and the sustainability of businesses. We must create a transport and infrastructure network, integrated into the national and European area, at the service of the community in proximity movements and which promotes social and territorial cohesion, enabling competitive advantages to serve economic growth and job creation. These plans must bring more value to the tourism sector. The question is to save the sector of bankruptcy in which it was, from the widespread threat to jobs and regain quality. Supervision and regulation must be the central objective of a rule of law, ensuring clear rules that promote and defend competition. Mr. Secretary of State, as an example of privatizations, the reality of the ANA company is different from the speeches of the arautos of misfortune. It is public that this company has reached the agreement negotiated with trade unions. Question : in your opinion, does the agreement that has been reached safeguard the company or not and its jobs? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask another question on the CTT, a procedure which has led to a strong position, based on the idea that everything was at stake with the solution that the Government has directed, everything, from the provision of services to the threat of dismissals! It all worked! Now, the known reality has nothing to do with the inflamed rhetoric. It is accepted today that the agreement reached made it possible to increase employees, something that had not happened since 2009! Mr Secretary of State, is it not true that the CTTs have reached agreement with the 11 trade unions represented in the company, the agreement which has more benefits for all than just the salary increase? It is either not true that even the CGTP signed the agreement,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u42	... regardless of the motions that, on the left, were presented in the autarchic organs, which had only one end: the public alarm? In the past, as today, they only want to create insecurity in workers and users. instead, the solutions found by the government increase productivity, increase employee income and safeguard the sector for the future. It is in this reform that we are committed to serving the interests of the Portuguese and defending jobs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u43	The next question is PS. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a first word of regret and protest for the absence of the Minister for Economic Affairs in this debate. In fact, the Minister for Economic Affairs has been used to miss the debates in the plenary in the field of transport. The Minister for Economic Affairs is constantly hiding himself « behind the back » of the Secretary of State for Transport. It is clear to the Portuguese today that the government's strategy is to dismantle the public transport service through a privatization agenda and sub-concessions. The Government is privatizing most of the capital of TAP, intends to sub-concession the operation of Metro Lisbon, sub-concession the operation of Carris, sub-concession the operation of river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa, also intends to sub-concession the line of Cascais and the operation of STCP, in Porto. The Government has concentrated this privatisation agenda in the last half year of its term of office. Dismantling the public transport service is an ideological option of this government, which separates the Socialist Party from this option of the Government, supported by the majority PSD / CDS. It was in opposition to this ideological option of the Government to privatize and sub-concession in the last half year of its governance that we have recently presented in the Assembly a parliamentary assessment to try to prevent the sub-concession of the Metro of Lisbon and Carris. We also presented a parliamentary assessment against the privatization of most of TAP's capital and a draft resolution recommending that the Government cancel the Port Metro and STCP tender.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u46	An offensive to the public transport sector in the last half year of its term of office, carried out in a hurry. And in a hurry it means that these processes are being conducted with little rigour and with little transparency. For three years, the government has strategically deteriorated the public transport service. It deteriorated by reducing supply, eliminating and eliminating traffic in buses and trains, reducing investment not only in infrastructures but also in rolling stock. The Government has prepared these public transport companies as a'made to measure' for the private for the last half year of its term of office. However, the pressure is never good advisor, much less in the conduct of these privatisation processes and sub-concessions. The tackling of the Port Metro and STCP competition is the maximum example of what the Government should not do, especially in the last half year of its term of office. This contest has the original sin of not having the participation of the chamber presidents of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, which are covered by the metro network and the STCP network. They have not participated and are against, they have already said publicly. And they are from all parties: PS, PSD and independent. It was a competition that did not opt for the pre-qualification of competing companies, a competition that was the target of 2200 questions, which speaks well of the weaknesses and shortcomings of the competition. It was a competition that had significant changes at the last hour, which sets in the eyes of many understood in the matter a new competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u47	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u48	The government used EMEF to reduce the proposed maintenance of rolling stock of the Port Metro within days of the end of the deadline and thus benefit the sole competitor. This is an invitation to tender without a single competitor. No national operator competed. Does it not seem strange, Mr Secretary of State, that this competition does not deserve credibility? It is that it does not deserve the slightest credibility and that is why we advocate that it be annulled. To conclude, Madam President, I shall quote statements by the President of the City Council of Maia, elected by the PSD, on this competition from Metro do Porto and STCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u49	But you have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u50	I'll finish. I quote: « Public transport makes no profit anywhere in the world. This contest was born wrong, it's going wrong and it's going wrong. A new competition should be launched to improve the service of users" — who said this was Mr. Mayor of Maia, elected by the PSD. End this mess, cancel the contest, for the sake of the Port Metropolitan Area and its users. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u51	Mrs. Members, the Bureau has just been informed that the Government intends to make an appeal to the Bureau. You have the floor, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u52	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry on the progress of the work. Mr. João Paulo Correia began his speech by criticizing the Government for the absence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Surely he did it out of ignorance. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs is absent, he is abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u53	She's always gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u54	If you want to listen to me, you may be clear. If you don't want to be clear, don't listen. Mr. Minister of Economy is abroad. When the Left Block marked the date of this appeal, I immediately informed the Left Block that on that date it would be impossible for Mr. Minister to appear and propose an alternative date. The Left Block, which is the interpelent party, and not the PS, understood well not to change the date, accepting that the debate was made with the presence of Mr. Secretary of State of Transport. It was therefore the interpelent party or the government that the Socialist Party should have asked and thus excused having said what it said. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u55	The next question is PCP. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the main merit of this government is being seen: an ever-increasing supply of transport and increasingly exorbitant prices for the population. Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Carina Oliveira of the PSD said that debt did not stop rising and that in 2011 it reached EUR 17 billion, but for the following years it was closed. [[Right now, PSD deputy Carina Oliveira displayed a chart.]] And the graph that shows only reveals the data until 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u57	No, no! Until 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u58	The fact is that the debt has increased further with the management of this government, from 17 to almost 21 billion euros. Is that where you deserve it? Oh, my God! The truth is, in the metropolitan area, people travel like canned sardines, the service has less and less available transportation, the boats have less and less supply and the rates, in several cases, more than doubled. Tell the young men to whom you took the passes 4 /NP 18 and sub23! The Government's word of order has been said for several days: to liquidate or privatize. It is the Government's point of order, it is the concrete orientation for the railway sector, in particular for EMEF and CP Load in formal terms, but it is also the policy strategy for the whole sector for public enterprises, which the Government wants to reduce to the condition of "renting barrels" so that, on the other hand, there are more public-private partnerships, millionaire businesses for the private and ruinous to the state and to the populations, as it is in sight and in the street for Lisbon and the port, if you allow this policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u60	I put some specific questions to Mr. Secretary of State on Transtex and Soflusa. Do you confirm that a large part of the fleet of Transtejo ships is in preparation for disposal? Confirms that catamarans and ferriesChiado, Algés, Alentejense, Palmelense, São Jorge and Martim Moniz, in particular, will be removed from the fleet? What does this decision mean? What will result from the operation of river transport? What measures are being taken with regard to the maintenance of the fleet, which is now undergoing very serious situations? Finally, Madam President, I cannot fail to record the astonishing statement you have made here about an honest country that meets its commitments. Perhaps, I would be thinking of more than EUR 8 billion in debt interest that would give our money to the megabanks and to the use of public debt. I also ask the Secretary of State what he has to say in this regard about the pensioners and pensioners of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, whose company had contractually made the commitment to complement the reform and which you, by decree, unilaterally and in a shameful and unacceptable way, have stolen them. [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are very indignant about this. I'm sorry. The gentlemen did not steal; they withdrew, cut, removed! Retirement and pensioners were withdrawn, which was their right assumed by companies and the government. What do you have to say about it, Secretary of State? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u61	It's good when there's a self-correction from the speaker himself. To reply, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u62	Mrs President, Mrs Helena Pinto, rushed in anticipation of my reply when she tried to see what I would say about the sector. If I may, I will use two words to define the government's policy on the sector: sustainability and quality. These are these two words that guide our action. As regards sustainability, for a simple reason: neither the Country nor even the Memorandum of Understanding and the aid package had any conditions or funds to maintain the previous situation of the sector. The sector actually experienced a situation in which it survived, creating sustainability, or not surviving, because there was no one to finance it either internally or externally. In fact, neither our international partners have provided any money for the transport sector. As regards quality, what we want to do was: when creating sustainability, we created rules in the competitions we launched — I give the example of the competition that is currently taking place in Porto — so that not only the assets remain in the sphere of state (I repeat, the assets of the companies remain in the sphere of state, are not transferred to the private)... [[BE's protests.]] ... but also, according to view, the investment obligations in the fleet, in particular the STCP, are all on behalf of the private partner. In other words, as required by the invitation to tender, the private party shall invest in the name of the State and shall benefit from that investment because it remains with the assets at the end of the sub-concession. It was for these reasons that he said that, first of all, there must be sustainability and then quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u63	There are very generous people who have a very good heart!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u64	We will decrease the mean age of the STCP fleet, as we will decrease that of Carris. The environmental mix is not degraded in the competition and fleet of STCP and Carris regarding what exists today and we still use to save a few tens of millions of euros, as indeed the Minister for Economic Affairs had occasion to mention last week in the Committee on Economics and Public Works. It is EUR 98 million that we saved in 10 years at the Port Metro, compared with the current cost for the same service, and EUR 58 million that we also saved over 10 years at the STCP, compared with what exists today for the same service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u65	How much is it paid to companies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u66	However, quality and sustainability mean much more than that, they mean giving up a policy that is the ideological matrix of the parties that support the government of social democracy and Christian democracy, social and territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u67	You know what social democracy is there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u68	In the first budget where we have the conditions to transfer part of the savings to the transport beneficiaries, which do not discuss whether the Lisbon Metro has increased the 40-second interval, you are talking about the degradation of the service! Is that what you're talking about? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the metropolitan intervals are 40 seconds, early in the morning and late in the evening, and outside the peak hours are between 2 and 3 minutes. That is, in the peak hours there are 40 seconds of interval and at the end of the times the intervals are between 2 and 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u69	You know it's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u70	Mrs. Members of the opposition, ask any Portuguese if they prefer to wait 40 seconds by the metro in Lisbon or 2 or 3 minutes at the end of the day, or continue to pay more than 100 million euros of subsidies, each year, of taxpayers' money, on behalf of the sustainability of these companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u71	That's not true! You're on the subway and you know what you're saying isn't true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u72	Mr Bruno Dias, I would ask you to allow Mr. Secretary of State to proceed. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u73	Mr. Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u74	Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr João Paulo Correia, I would like to refer to the quality of public service. In fact, there is a huge ideological difference that separates us. In fact, in the speech of MP Mariana Mortágua this became clear and I think that reflects the position of the Left Block, this party that says there can only be public service with a public shareholder. We think there may be public service with other types of shareholders than the public shareholder Central State. There may be public service without being with the public shareholder. In fact, that's seen on the phones. The universal telecommunications service is now provided by WE. Now, I do not see that WE have any public participation and the telephones continue to play, in the same way that the postal services provide public service and I do not see that the State has, either direct or indirectly, any capital participation! More than that, Mrs Deputies: see the terms of the invitation to tender which is currently being held at the STCP and the Metro do Porto and you will verify that there is no change in service to what exists today. That is, the public service for the future is exactly the same as the public service that exists today. [[BE's protests.]] We are not talking about quality or regularity, we are talking about ideology, and that is also why Parliament serves, that is, to discuss ideologically the approach to these issues. In the programme presented to the voters and based on the Government Programme, the banks that support the majority said: "We are not so interested in discussing the shareholder, we are interested in the quality of the service that is provided" because it is in this debate that we feel comfortable. With regard to a question from Mr. João Paulo Correia on contests made in a hurry, I wanted to note that, in my initial speech, I had the opportunity to say that this whole strategy had been defined since 2011, but, although it was not constitutionally, the government's mandates are to exercise from the first day until the last day. The legitimacy, neither democratic nor political, of the government is not called into question. In other words, after composing the public accounts and ensuring, through a public consultation process, that the quality and regularity of the service were not at issue, we are now conducting a contest for the best to come. So I won't waste too much time because I also want to answer the other ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I give Mr João Paulo Correia one more time for your reflection. Do you know how many tenders you had for the STCP and the Port Metro? Two! And one of which, having been submitted outside the deadline, was not considered valid. Two proposals were therefore put forward. Mr President, do you know how many proposals were made in 2009 in a competition organised under political coordination of a government? Two! In other words, the same two proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u75	That's weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u76	In 2009, two competitors and two competitors in 2014. The problem of having applied for two competitors in 2014 is that the government is of a different color and this no longer makes the Socialist Party comfortable, which has no reason at all to do so! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another set of four questions, the first of which is the Left Block. Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u78	Mr President, Secretary of State for Transport, Sérgio Monteiro, said that it is indifferent whether the shareholder is public or private and whether he is a concessionaire or a concessionaire. I said it's all indifferent. In fact, this has an ideological cut, it has huge interests. If there is something that has this debate, apart from ideology, it is confirmation that ideology is the filling up of private interests in the transport sector and foreign interests in the transport sector. Well, the problem is: shareholders or dealers are all, everyone, all private. There is no public offer in public transport service. There's no one left! With this story, they certainly intend to mislead the Portuguese. Do you think there will be fewer strikes due to privatization? Looks like there are no strikes in the private sector. Is Mr. Secretary of State against strikes in the private sector? Is it against the right to strike? Are you thinking about some masked form of lockout? I don't know what Mr. Secretary of State, who sometimes has intellectual fables, will think about it. I wanted to ask you about TAP. A few years ago, the great danger, the threat against TAP was Iberia. They said they could « eat» TAP, make the platform difficult, the hub of Lisbon, the traditional routes of TAP, etc. A few years have passed and the TAP was practically « food» by British Airways, lost routes to Latin America, lost routes even in European space, the hub of Madrid is limited, has fallen. Do you think the guarantees that you have provided about the privatisation of TAP, where the state will be staying for a short time with a residual margin on the property of the company, are you worth anything? Do you think that from the point of view of maintaining more than 12 000 direct jobs, more than 30 000 indirect jobs, this has assurances? Do you think you have guarantees regarding traditional routes? Do you think the book of charges, which is a piece of paper, can solve anything? Iberia's book of charges was also fabulous from the point of view of merger between companies. The public service obligations of the Kingdom of Spain were also very demanding! There are also other types of questions concerning civil protection, transport mobilization for circumstances related to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic, etc. etc. What guarantees can this government give on this? by the sights, only the imperative of what it costs you to recognize, i.e., the empire of business—just the business, not anything other than the business. It opens the competitive procedure today. Let's see who's applying, because so far we have almost — and it's an atheist who's telling us — who's assigning us to see who the whore candidates are to stay with the capital of TAP. Indeed, the dimension is that of promiscuity with hell, it is enough to see the selection of candidates to be TAP owners, whatever they are. Therefore, this is an operation which Mr. Secretary of State and the Government as a whole cannot mask in relation to the high risk and inability they have to defend fundamental interests. Therefore, it is privatization by privatization and, of course, the defense of interests and the defense of an ideology that leads to all the public offer of transport, but all! , be private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u79	For a question, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u80	Madam President, I begin by addressing a very special compliment to Mr. State Secretary for Privatization. I heard the Secretary of State say that he did not mind being known as the Secretary of State for Privatization. I imagine that nothing matters and that he is even very proud of it because for all the members of this government, in everything that smells the state or the capital of the state, he shudders, Mr. Secretary of State. So the government says it privatizes because debts are very large. Mr Minister, I think that is a duly misleading statement. Mr. Secretary of State does not say how debts arose or continue to arise and what should be said is that it was due to the very bad policies pursued by the previous governments and by this government, which have heavily indebted these companies because they have subfinanced them, because they have uninvested what they should invest in, because that is why the Portuguese pay taxes. The government has put companies to use the bank, to serve the bank. Your ideological logic is always the same, there's no chance, there's no way to escape. But your statement is also misleading because the state will assume these debts. People will think this way: "Well, if it happens to the private, the private pay everything". None of this, it is the Portuguese who will pay them, and then the companies are handed over or given to the private without charge. Now, Mr Secretary of State, it is obvious that you see exactly who you are serving. It is for these people that you work for, not for the people, not for the users! For users, the answers are different: it ends with 51 trains in the line of Cascais! Do you need them? It doesn't matter! It's already been said that people are piled up on the subway. Interested? Don't! Mr. Secretary of State even says people wait for the metro 40 seconds, no more than 3 minutes! This is to laugh, Mr. Secretary of State! Trains are taken on the Douro line without prior notice to the population— "it does not matter, it is not the population and the users we are serving. » Do you understand, Mr. Secretary of State? They take your interests and those who serve in your government policy, who are already tired and who ruin the country. Mr Secretary of State, I also want to tell you that you are not only making mistakes for the present as you are making mistakes for the future. It was a brutal ass of what you did to withdraw the passes sub-23 and 14 - 18, and I will tell you why. I have already told the Minister of the Environment and I also want to say to the responsible for transport and privatization: it was essential to get used to the use of public transport by young people in this country. Incentiveing young people to this use is essential so that, in the future, young people will think that it is useless to move from collective transport to individual transport. This is a bet in the future. We want to reduce individual transport to the benefit of cities, to the benefit of the environment, to the benefit of lower pollution, don't we? You guys do everything the opposite. You have withdrawn an incentive that exists for young people to use collective transport in a more massive way! On the contrary, Mr. Secretary of State! I want to tell you that the transport policy of this government is an absolute disgrace.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u81	For a question, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u82	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, I would like to ask you a previous question and ask you why you are so proud to be at the top of the ranking of transport privatizations when, in the background, this means exactly that you are liquidating public transport in Portugal? What kind of pride is this that you can spread in this debate? Question about the line of Cascais : the line of Cascais serves daily 80,000 people, it is a hundred-year line that serves many people in the travel home / work and is understood by V. Ex.a as a pilot test for the granting of suburban lines to private. I can tell you how the "cleanup" service has been so well done : in 2011 they ended the quick Saint Peter – Cais do Sodré ; today they finished 47 trains, at the same time they finished all the fast service between 10 and 17 hours. This is a decline in supply in this line of at least 20 years. What is the argument and what is the logic of this contraction? You might say that the argument is that private individuals guarantee investment for maintenance of a line that has its specificities. You know the argument is false, you know that history tells us that there is no private investment, which is the distribution of dividends at the end of the party. But in this regard, and with your arguments, I would like to ask you, too, what will sustain what is in PETI ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) of a public investment for this line of EUR 160 million? Whoever has the debt we already know. Whoever supports this investment is, of course, the pocket of all Portuguese. while the tickets will obviously be much more expensive and the offer is contracted, we will have much less trains. Logic is not from the point of view of public service and from the point of view of the right to mobility, other than that, which gives it pride: the private are left with the flesh and the citizens and the citizens are getting the bone when it comes to public supply and this fundamental right, which is the right of citizens and citizens to mobility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u83	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the STCP — Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port — and the Port Metro are two fundamental companies for the mobility of populations in the Port district. They are companies built with public money, with the money of all of us, investment that no private was available to make. Now that the investment is made and the debt is even assumed in the national public debt, the government intends to privatize the profits of STCP and Metro. But it's not just. And contrary to what has been said by the PSD bench and by the Secretary of State, the debt these companies have issued because of the construction of their lines, a new debt is added. It is that the government, in addition to integrating the profits of these companies, aims to create a genuine and millionaire PPP. They are guaranteed income for companies that will stay with STCP and Metro. the profits of the ticket are added to the profits of the investment, of the financing by the State. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, all that talk that it is necessary to end the indebtedness of the State, there are no transfers from the State budget to these companies is a lie, and you know very well that it is a lie, because the government will guarantee millionaire income to private companies that will stay with transport. This is therefore an unacceptable process, an economic crime for the country. But more: STCP and Port Metro were built in a public service logic. Delivery to the private sector implies that logic is profit, exclusively profit and therefore adding to economic crime we have social crime. Mr. Secretary of State knows that people make a very good difference between what is public and what is private and what is true public service. It is that private people have the logic of profit, and that has implications for public service. I will give you specific cases: in relation to the lines already granted in the port district that came from the STCP and were handed over to private people — careers 54, 55, 64 and 94 — the consequence of granting to private people was the reduction of frequency and the reduction of transport time, having ceased to be ensured the transport of early morning and from 19 hours and having the practical price fired. For example, in row 9, the price per kilometre is higher than the average price of the STCP by 23 %. Therefore, there is a big difference between the public service provided by public companies and what says is a price of a public service provided by private people, because they have the logic of profit and, in this sense, the CFP is against the privatization of these companies. I leave two final questions. First of all, EMEF recently lowered the price by EUR 1, EUR 7 billion in the Port Metro maintenance contest. How does it justify, from the point of view of the defence of the public interest, that 'discount' of EUR 1, EUR 7 billion which, according to news, has departed from the Secretary of State? The second question has to do with the fact that the public entity which manages the Port Metro cannot be public. But only if it is Portuguese; if it is a Spanish public entity, then you can already compete and stay with the concession of the Port Metro. How do you explain this, Mr Secretary of State? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u85	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the EMEF, my office has already been able to answer the questions requested. I did not give — and I took it publicly at the time, in Parliament, in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works — either in the beginning or in the middle or at the end of the process, no guidance to EMEF or its strategy to join another service provider or to go alone, much less as regards price policy. I wanted to make this quite clear here, in the plenary, that I did not give any guidance, that I did not make any recommendations, nor did I tell EMEF to join or to go alone to the contest. This is an important aspect that I take to clarify, although I have already done so to the media that have asked the question. As far as price is concerned, it seems very important to pass a message of tranquility on to all those who enjoy public transport today and will continue to enjoy in the future in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. For 2015, as in 2014, as in 2013, it was found the same rule that will occur for the future: the price adjustment is made to inflation, there is no extraordinary price adjustment from here. I would say - in 2012, I would like to say - in the following years and it is one of the rules that is provided for in the competition. Therefore, in 2015 the adjustment was zero, i.e. prices rose zero. Why? Because inflation was zero and therefore we are fulfilling what we said. The third note I want to leave is on the TAP — and with this I conclude this second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u87	He's done, but he's not answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u88	Mr Luís Fazenda, said on TAP, that he believes that the book of charges is a document that has no specific value because in other cases the book of charges has been published, but then nothing has happened in other countries. We have not only the experience that the demanding mandate book in the previous TAP process has given rise to a decision not to privatize—and eventually the same will happen now, if the terms of the specification are not met—as I can confirm – not only have you not only that today the virtual room date, the digital platform for loading documents for the privatisation process of TAP, but also that it is already published in the Journal of the Republic the order marking the date of delivery of binding proposals, and that date is May 15th. Therefore, until May 15th, competitors have the possibility to electronically access documents, in a logic of competition and transparency, because all documents are accessible to all competitors, and to submit their proposal. Does this mean what? It means that we want to lead, future, TAP wings to fly, because — let's not fool ourselves — the restructuring of the company with public funds involves redundancies, fleet reductions and route reductions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u89	Where is that written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u90	And if TAP is unable to grow and capitalize, it has no chance of facing an external shock if it exists. It is on behalf of the future of the TAP and its workers that we are developing this process of privatization. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u91	We continue with requests for clarification, for which I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u92	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, the debate is already a long one and we have not been able to realise that because of the fact that the Secretary of State has not been able to explain the advantages of granting transport privates. We can't figure out what advantages there are in privatizing transport! We have presented our arguments and the underlying argument is this: when one thing is public property, public management is in the interest of the State, the public record, the public service; when it is delivered to a private person, the private manager for his profit, even if it goes against the interest of the State and the people. This is an argument which seems very obvious and very valid and has not yet been denied. Starting with the urban transports of Lisbon and Porto, debt remains in the state, it does not go to the private. The services are worse, on behalf of such a policy of sustainability and improving operational results, which has two objectives: first, putting transport companies to give operational profit to deliver to privates; second, reducing the supply before privatization so much that they can then say 'we privatized and there is no reduction in supply' — obliged, it was reduced before handing over to privates, so that there was no change. But those who walk in Lisbon and Porto know that there are fewer buses; they know that waiting time has increased a lot in recent years; they know that, if they walk by metro, in the green line, for example, that they know well, there are three carriages at the time of tip always full, the same thing happening on several other lines, which are always spreading; they know that prices have increased; they know that the pass is over for the elderly, that they have the right to their mobility. Anyone, to access a social pass, in this country, has to show all their accounts. Any bank secrecy that exists for any rich in this country is not equal to the raising and scrutiny of accounts that exists for any poor metro or bus. Even so, after all the degradation of the offer, everything to privatize, the Minister of Economy throws savings figures into the air, like 153 million, and no one asks where they come from. And we're going to repeat the savings numbers without taking care and critical analysis to realize where the savings come from and how it's possible, because saving implies better service with better quality. This is saving, otherwise cutting is not saving. We look at STCP and we see that it is possible to subdone 60 % of the services, i.e. the company that is granted will be able to sell this concession, subdone to other companies, and these, yes, do not have the same quality requirements, these, yes, may have more precarious workers, yes, they may have lower wages. With regard to fleet renewal obligations, the first version of the specification provided for a maximum of five years for fleet renewal. It was too much, the private didn't want to and we moved there for eight years! There we went to change the quality needs of the STCP fleet. It also opens the door to 10 % reduction of the service, there is a reduction in the effectiveness of 100 workers who move to the granting of STCP — more precarious, less service, less quality — and, as a cherry on the top of the cake, any charge which is incurred by the workers against the private management of this company is assumed by the State. In other words, the State deresponsibles the private management of its relationship with workers. We do not realize that this is better: the profits remain for the private, the debt remains for the state, the populations get worse services. A final note, because I do not resist, in relation to TTCs and what the privatisation of TTCs means. What it means to privatize TTCs is that in four years TTCs will distribute enough money to investors — large companies and private international banks — to capitalise on TAPs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u93	Mr Altino Bessa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u94	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, it is true that the debate is long overdue, that the debate is interesting. We've come here to talk about the public transport sector is always something that this House prestigious. However, what we have also verified during this afternoon is a centralization in what are public transport in two areas of the country, in two metropolitan areas. What the opposition parties here have brought us to talk about Lisbon and Porto permanently. The rest of the country does not exist for opposition parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u95	We can also talk about Castle White, from the Beira Baixa Line! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u96	She said, recently Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, that good public transport was needed in the city and in the interior. You are, Mrs. Deputy, but the city, by chance, is not only the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon nor is it only the Metropolitan Area of Porto. We must remember that there are more cities beyond these metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u97	There is! Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u98	We must not forget that, ultimately, those who pay are the taxpayers and are, for example, the taxpayers of Braga, Coimbra, Guimarães, Viana do Castelo who pay the compensation. That is why it was appropriate to extend a little more the debate on what is public transport at national level and not just bring here the rhetoric that this government... It is good to deal with this issue from an ideological point of view, but it is not good to hear comments here like 'you are at the service of whom? “ To whom do they serve? ” Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have heard a member of the Socialist Party say here that "these competitions are a tailor-made fact for the private". Mr Correia would like to know and agree to clarify the House and the public, who are present here and listen to these statements, or even to the authorities themselves, because, if you know that there is a competition that is tailored to privatization, you should report it. It is that "throwing mud" above privatisations is a complete incoherence and lack of responsibility,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ... even more by the Socialist Party, which much forgets that it was one of the most privatising parties in Portuguese history,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u99	He's wrong! This government is the champion of privatization!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u100	... that placed in the Memorandum of Understanding a non-end of privatization, as is the case with TAP, and now wants to give a different interpretation of what, indeed, is there. They have a lot of responsibility for what they have defended in other governments, including in 2000 and 2001, in a government to which the current Secretary-General of the Socialist Party belonged, so he agreed that they had a little more care for such claims since they are offensive and offensive to the banks and to the government itself, when they claim here that there are competitions made to measure. So, Mr. João Paulo Correia, be more careful with what you say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u101	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u102	Mr President, I would just like to ask Mr Secretary of State two questions very briefly. On the question of Portugal Porta-a-Porta, according to I know, has already been implemented in Abrantes, Mação and Sardoal, but what we want, Mr. Secretary of State, is that this is extended to the country, because the country is not only Lisbon and Porto, the country needs a policy of territorial cohesion for the populations of the interior and for the populations who do not live in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u103	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u104	I shall conclude, Madam President. And what I also ask Mr State Secretary is about the Port Metro: is it true that there has been an increase in passengers in the Port metro? Oh, my God! Is it not true that the fact that there have been no permanent strikes, as happened here, instigated much by certain parties in this House and by certain trade unions, has led to an increase in passengers and today the Port Metro has far better results than those in the past and compared with other sectors of other metropolitan areas? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u105	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u106	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, if his key words are sustainability and quality, Mr. Secretary of State cannot leave this debate without justifying the privatization of CP Load and EMEF. Sustainability and quality are synonymous with these two companies. In fact, even the President of the CP himself is against the privatisation of CP Cargo. Mr Secretary of State, do not run away from the debate: why is the privatisation of these two companies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u107	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u108	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we are going to benefit. First advantage: cost reduction. Port Metro — EUR 98 million in 10 years; STCP — EUR 58 million in 10 years. Second advantage: maintenance of service and investment obligations on behalf of the State. Assets remain in the sphere of the State, investments are made on behalf of the State, which at the end of the concession collects the benefits of such investment. Less cost, the same quality, more investment—I see no doubt about the advantages of our model in relation to the model it presents, Mrs. As for the issue of debt remaining within the state, the debt is already here, it is not suddenly left by magical arts, it is already in the state! So what we did was to stay in a historic debt hole that generates interest, but no longer dig it! In this way, we have given operational sustainability and business operating cash flow, i.e. the money that the operation generates keeps sustainable companies in the short term. However, they need investment and this cash flow that is generated by companies is not sufficient to invest, so there were two ways to go: either the State invests or, through granting private investors with investment obligations, were private investors on behalf of the State. It is this model that we advocate, because we do not want to pay taxpayers with more taxes, because we want this investment to be made by the private sector and then we hand over management to the private sector. In return, this delivery has the same quality of service, with more investment, thus renewing the fleet and improving the environmental quality of the fleet in relation to what exists today. As far as strikes are concerned, this subject has been mentioned several times here. I believe that there is no doubt about the democratic tolerance that the Government has in relation to the strikes, as it could not, in fact, cease to be. [[PCP and BE protests.]] During the discussion on civil demand in the TAP, it was said : « The government has great intolerance to the strike ». Do you know how many strikes we had in the sector, in 2012, 2013 and 2014? It was 1076 days of strike!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u109	1076 days! [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u110	It was 1076 days of strike, partial and total! E, Mrs. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the customers have endured all this! They agreed to realize that it was necessary to pay a little more for the tickets, in the name of the survival of the service, to accept the principle that the path we were following was a path of sustainability and, therefore, the companies are there. Now they want investment made by privates with the same quality that is guaranteed today by public operators. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u111	the same way we want this for public passenger transport in Lisbon and Porto, the same for CP Cargo and EMEF. CP Cargo, since its existence, has suffered losses. And she's been here a long time ago! [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] We therefore have a problem of state aid that we are trying to solve. [[PCP and BE protests.]] I am available for the debate in the Committee on Economics and Public Works, if they so understand. By the way, I did it last week. But the aim of privatization is to ensure that the cost of service delivery on a comparative basis decreases so that our goods are more competitive! [[PCP protests.]] To make our economy more competitive, to export more, to create more wealth and more employment. That is how we think we better achieve this goal. Thirdly, to conclude: at the time when we have the sector, including REFER, with sustainability, I expected, in this debate, that it will be long enough to hear a word of satisfaction, of appreciation to the Government for having achieved this objective, that — Mr President's words. Members — there is nowhere else. [[PCP and BE protests.]] I mean, we are the exception in this case, not because of 2011, where we were bankrupt, but in 2015, because we have a sector that has economic and financial robustness as there is nowhere else. There is another topic on which the opposition is worth trying to organize their ideas, if I may, which is in the Port Metro and STCP contest. The PCP and the Left Block say we deliver millionaires to privates. [[And it's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u112	The PS says: « The competition has conditions that no private will accept. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Truly, what the PS says is: "The pay conditions do not guarantee the service, because it is much cheaper than what was before. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] Make up your mind, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: either we deliver millionaire incomes or we don't pay enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u113	Pay too much! And the money is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u114	for our part, we are convinced on the way, we are guaranteeing service to populations at a sustainable cost from the budgetary and environmental point of view. That is what we must continue to do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u115	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are now in the process of intervention. To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Members: The debate on the transport sector and public transport companies is another good opportunity for us to discuss, with a great sense of responsibility, a topic of greater relevance and which concerns all Portuguese. I do not think it is necessary to reaffirm the importance we attach to public transport policies and the role they play, in particular, in people's mobility, social cohesion and territorial cohesion. This is a fact that there is no confirmation! Public transport and the role that the State has played over the years in the offer of mobility remains the same importance and the same today. But the issues are very different today, because it is necessary to respond to how to improve public service with lower resource allocation, ensure quality with reduced costs, for the State and for taxpayers and allow the participation of the private sector in this efficiency effort and improvement of service supply. But so that there is no doubt about the path that has been taken in the recovery of public transport companies, let us see what the Programme of this Government tells us: "Transport, infrastructure and communications are fundamental pillars of competitiveness for the Portuguese economy and companies. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Clarify, unequivocally, « It is essential to take measures to address chronic operational deficits and increasing and unsustainable financial debts both in rail and in public road transport. Do not keep on seeking. ” In public rail and road transport companies we would then have to improve the efficiency of operators and achieve operational results, structurally positive, reduce financial debt and promote clarification of the relationship model with the State. The Government Programme, approved in June 2011, stated the urgent need to act on the chronic operational deficit and on debt, which had grown exponentially in public transport companies. It was thus very clearly identified the serious problem of companies in the state business sector, with particular emphasis on the importance and size of public transport undertakings. Also in the business sector of the State, and contrary to what the opposition claims, the government's action is consistent with what was envisaged in its Programme, corresponds to a requirement resulting from reality, clearly defends the interests of the Portuguese. [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: In these matters, as in other matters, it is also our obligation to revive the memory of some who insist on theses that do not confer on reality. Sometimes they go even further in their creativity and show permanent conflicts with truth and facts! It's too bad, but it's a fatality we have to live with! So let's live up those memories! The Memorandum of Understanding which was concluded by the current Government in May 2014 and which had been signed by the former Government of the Socialist Party in May 2011 defined very clear objectives for the State business sector. I can point out very quickly: the reduction of the operational costs of enterprises in the state business sector by 15 % compared to the 2009 levels ; the application of stricter debt limits from 2012 onwards ; an improvement of corporate governance in accordance with international best practices; a strengthening of monitoring powers by the government, with a view to improving business efficiency. [[PS protests.]] The government took on these objectives and wanted to achieve — and it did — these objectives. But what is at stake here, even if some do not want to admit, is that it was not even possible to keep companies on the path that followed until 2011 with exponential debt growth and their activity heavily supported in debt; with investment based excessively and irrationally, at future costs, with public-private partnerships. And the turnover of PPPs is very clear in the data revealed by Eurostat yesterday, which shows that the charges Portugal takes with PPPs, amounting to EUR 8, 5 billion, exceed the share of 4, 3 % of GDP, which Portugal has devoted to the payment of interest for the total public debt. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We paid today and we will pay in the future very serious governance errors—it seems that someone noticed that I was going to say this same— committed by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u118	But the last three years of government intense work have reversed this dangerous trend, with positive operational results from transport companies and an increase in the number of passengers in 2014, already facing 2013. These are indisputable objective data, proven facts. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Members: There must be a clear collective awareness that the rationalization of the state business sector, with the reduction of the transfer of public money to its activity, will in future represent less taxes for Portuguese. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u119	Unfortunately, the Socialist Party — as we have seen here today in this debate — is responsible for the way in which the country left in 2011, has incomprehensible positions and permanently refuses the attitude and sense of responsibility, which is required of it! contrary to what the Left Block wants here today, in this debate, the work carried out by the government aimed to save companies, recapitalize companies, improve the quality of service provided to citizens, in short, put companies even more at the service of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u120	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u121	I'm done, ma'am. President, reminding me of Almada Negroes, who told us: "When I was born, the sentences that will save humanity were all written. There was only one thing missing — saving mankind. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u122	The Bureau records the registration of Mr Paulo Campos to make requests for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the intervention that has just been given spoke on mobility, territorial cohesion, social cohesion and also serious. We are talking about mobility, the importance of mobility for the Portuguese, and we are checking what has happened in the last three years: less 224 million passengers! In other words, Portuguese mobility has been clearly reduced. It is less than 20 % of what existed three years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u124	Remarkable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u125	That is how this Government and this majority deal with the fundamental objective that is the mobility of all Portuguese people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] But let's go to the question of territorial cohesion. It has often been said here that « now, yes, it is a policy for the interior». So I ask: what happened to the line of the Baixa Beira between the Covilhã and the Guard, whose works were in progress? at this time, three years later, they remain suspended because this government ended with one of the main lines of the interiority of this country, which is the line of the Beira Baixa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What happened to the Mondego subway, which this government promised would include in the candidatures of the current Community framework? at this time it continues to stand still, calling into question a fundamental link within the Coimbra district, particularly between Lousã and Coimbra. What happened to air transport between Bragança, Vila Real and Lisbon? It has been suspended by this government and at present this transport continues to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u127	This is the name of the territorial cohesion that this Government is claiming but, indeed, it does not implement, leaving the Portuguese without this ability to reach. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] But let us also see social cohesion and what has happened to tariffs in the last three years. Revenue per passenger in the Carris — increase of 41 %; revenue per passenger in the public transport of the port — increase of 24 %; revenue per passenger in the CP — increase of 13 %; revenue per passenger in the metro of Lisbon — increase of 56 %; revenue per passenger in the Metro of the port — increase of 10 %. This is also where social cohesion is seen, i.e. the Portuguese paying more for a service that is absolutely fundamental! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u128	And maybe that's why 220 million passengers left public service. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, if we look at the costs per passenger, we also check what happens: on the Caris plus 7% for each passenger; on the STCP, of the Port plus 12% for each passenger; on the CP plus 9% for each passenger; on the metro of Lisbon plus 3 % per passenger; on the Metro of the Port plus 2 % per passenger. Finally, on the seriousness and debt in three years, the indebtedness of transport companies increased by EUR 3.4 million, an average above the previous years. It is true that he did not achieve what was growing in the governments of Durão Barroso, which was still much higher. But it is also true that, in the last three years, debt has risen more than in the previous six years. On the other hand, Mr Afonso Oliveira compared a year of interest expenditure with 30 years of PPP expenditure. To be serious, Mr Afonso Oliveira, compares 30-year interest with the expenditure of PPPs over 30 years and will obtain the following: EUR 240 billion of interest to 8 million of public-private partnerships charges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u129	To reply, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u130	Mr Paulo Campos, let me tell you this: it seems to me that you were not completely satisfied last Friday with the answer I gave you regarding the TTCs. But today we are going to talk about this issue, which is even more important. The honourable Member has shown here today that he is a graphic specialist, showing 10 graphs! I thought I was coming to show a fundamental chart,... [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u131	... that translates the period when the PS was in the government, which is the debt chart, a fundamental chart in which the transport sector has unsustainable debt levels in 2011,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] ... with around EUR 18 billion in debt. Mr President, I have listened very calmly, so let me answer. But there is a decrease of this value from 2011 onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u132	But what descent? In three years it increased by 3, 4 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u133	Mr President, I will give you more information. And she asked the President from now on to distribute two documents, a chart and an information. The information is from Banco de Portugal and has to do with the business sector of the State. It says that on 31 December 2007 the total debt on GDP was substantially 17 %. On 31 December 2011 it was 29 %—there was therefore a brutal increase in indebtedness. In September 2014, it was 26 % and there was a decline in the overall indebtedness of transport companies in relation to the past. Mr Paulo Campos should come here to explain how he has reached this level of indebtedness and should also explain why it is news today — how Portugal's charges resulting from contracts signed under PPPs represent 5 %, 12 % of GDP. This is the second highest among the countries of the European Union, only Greece presenting values above those of Portugal. Mr Paulo Campos has spent a period in a government where there has been a management that approaches Greece, in this particular case, unfortunately for bad reasons. This is a bad example. What I expected Mr. Deputies to explain was a single graph, not 10, which made it clear why he owed the country, because he added more PPPs, more indebtedness, without that translating into better public service. So, Mr. Paulo Campos, next time, a single graph would arrive for your answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u134	Mr. Paulo Campos ( PS ) : — Madam President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u135	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u136	Mr. Paulo Campos ( PS ) : — Madam President, I would like to make a number of documents available to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u137	Please identify the documents, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u138	Mr. Paulo Campos ( PS ) : — Madam President, is the report of the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance on public sector enterprises, where the indebtedness data I cited, to assess the reality of the increase of 3.4 billion in transport companies, an average greater than in previous years. And now, because the Eurostat document was quoted yesterday, I am presenting the same document, where the responsibilities of the different States, in particular Germany - 145 % of GDP, the Netherlands - 116 % of GDP, Slovenia - 114 % of GDP, Ireland - 111 % of GDP, the United Kingdom - 73 % of GDP and Austria - 71 % of GDP. All these are large spending countries that have a set of ratios, including public-private partnerships, far superior to those which Portugal has.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u139	Only they didn't call the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u140	To speak the next speech, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u141	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: It has been clear in this debate that there is an ideological obsession on the part of the majority in privatizing everything they can, in granting everything they can. Mr Minister, let me tell you that we always have the same coincidence and always the same excuse for Minister Pires de Lima never to be present in the debates in plenary. He's always abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u142	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u143	It's just that the excuse is always the same! He always hides behind Mr. Secretary of State. But it's also true...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u144	The Left Block knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u145	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, if you shout less maybe the work can do better! In fact, there is a total refusal by the Government to study alternatives, to accept alternatives, whether they are decentralization or capitalisation. There is a total refusal to establish substantive commitments. We are going to have some positive steps to be announced at the legislative level, but that will not then be incorporated into the concrete. This ideological obsession by the Prime Minister—and he is responsible for it—leads to conflicts with the autarchs, leads to conflicts with much of society, but, above all, leads to a lack of improvement of mobility conditions in metropolitan areas. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State, yes, Mr. Altino Bessa, we are in favour of improving mobility throughout the country. We are in favour of flexible and on-demand transport, and therefore we believe that it is time for the government to step back and be consistent in many of the acts it performs. We have recently seen Mr Afonso Oliveira's criticism of PPPs. I suspect that I am tending against PPPs, I was surprised to hear it because the honourable Member criticized PPPs and made an intervention in support of a government that wants to make much more PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u146	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u147	We are here all afternoon talking about concessions and sub-concessions and therefore more PPPs. I would ask for consistency, Member of the Commission. Coherence is called for at the bench of the majority. Mr. Secretary of State, if the Government seems to want to shift competences to the intermunicipal and municipal level in metropolitan areas, as the PS has long defended, then why does it not move from words to acts? If you want to give granting powers to metropolitan areas and municipalities why don't you give them now? If you want to integrate metropolitan transport authorities into metropolitan areas, why don't you do it immediately? Why do you have this obsession with doing sub-concession business first and only then transferring these skills? As the leader of the Socialist Party, António Costa, said yesterday, it is like concluding a contract-promise for the purchase and sale of a property and, in the meantime, sublodging that same property. It makes no sense and the Secretary of State knows that. Above all, there are many differences to resolve with the city of Lisbon and it is wrong for the government not to be consistent with what it wants to propose at the level of legislation. I leave a final note on the TAP, Mr. Secretary of State. It is also wrong for the government to want to privatize force against everything and against all, 100 % twice, which is the way it is doing it. It clearly fails in a number of areas. It is an urgent failure in dialogue and commitment, in the study and analysis of capitalization alternatives. There is clearly a lack of transparency in not making all the documentation available. Failure to opt for more private business and for more direct adjustment. You fail to want to condition a future government. It also fails in the composition of the Monitoring Committee, since we have put here a challenge for it to appoint the previous Monitoring Committee, but it has sought a more friendly monitoring committee for the privatization of TTCs. Mr. Secretary of State, also here the government has failed at the level of the legal soundness of the entire process and should also catch up on the sub-concessions and catch up on the way in the privatisation of TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u148	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo, given that several numbers have been invoked here, and so that there is no doubt, I would like to begin by doing an interesting exercise that seems fair to me. At the time the Government took possession and use official data, i.e. the 2010 General Treasury and Finance Directorate report, what was the value of the total debt of the transport sector? At present, the consolidated debt was EUR 16 700 million. If nothing was done in the face of such a serious problem, the debt would reach in 2015, at the end of the Legislature, EUR 23 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u150	In 2013 it reached EUR 21 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u151	At the end of 2013, and on the basis of the report which Mr Paulo Campos also referred to — the 2013 General Treasury and Finance Directorate report — the consolidated debt was EUR 15 538 million. I shall repeat, Mr President : EUR 15 538 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u152	Don't say that! On what page?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u153	This is the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u154	The reality? Are you forgetting the REFER?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u155	As was also the reduction of EBITDA from 2010 to 2013: a reduction of EUR 296 million. Listen, Mr. Member, which is important : EUR 296 million from 2010 to 2013. What has happened — and the honourable Members. Members know this — and that it has to do with the European Accounting System ( ESA 2010 ), was a reclassification of companies, not only of companies in the transport sector but of 270 companies in 2014, which will mean an increase in the debt perimeter of EUR 6 billion. This has to do with the fact that the criteria have been changed, because sales do not represent at least 50 % of the costs, with the aggravating need to include also loans, capital and capital depreciation and interest. the fact that it has increased EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u156	So did it increase or not increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u157	That is true, Mr President, and not to say what you have mentioned here. I also want to say that, in view of the circumstances in which we were, we had to find solutions. We could not limit ourselves to saying, as Mrs Helena Pinto said, 'this is wrong, this is wrong'! That is a fact, but we had to attach ourselves to finding solutions to the problems. What is being done is more efficient and effective management, with guarantee of public service, ensuring what is essential for passengers, at the best cost and with better compensation, thus consolidating what is tax relief and with less responsibility for taxpayers. Finally, I leave a very simple question to Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo. If, in the past, when it had responsibilities, the Socialist Party defended rationalization, rigour, more efficiency and more sustainability, because it cannot see now, in these circumstances, that this path that is being made is the right way? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u158	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u159	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, debt has been and is a problem of all governments. And we have already seen that with the government of Durão Barroso the problem was more negative. He did not want to debate the present and the future, he wanted to escape the TAP issue and the government's incoherence between legislation and sub-concession. It was wrong, so we renewed the challenge to the government: take a path in the TAP, take a path in the sub-concessions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u160	Mr Hélder Amaral. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I believe that, coming to the end of the debate, I would like to begin by summarizing what has been said. I begin by saying that from the left to the left of the Socialist Party nothing has arisen again. The arguments are the same, the suggested solutions are the same, but there are still some points of contact. Yes, we want to defend the public transport service and we want to defend the mobility of all Portuguese people. But we want to do so on a sustained basis, with financial balance and without paying the Portuguese taxpayers, maintaining the quality and regularity of the service. However, we have found that there is an insanity in the Socialist Party's bench. I don't want to fix another problem for the Socialist Party's bench, but being a pure pleasure to continue listening to Mr. Paulo Campos...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u162	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u163	... we find that what he says is very different from what Mr. João Paulo Correia said at the time of the discussion of the State Budget for 2011. He said that the best contribution to the public transport service was to create conditions for economic and financial sustainability. He said more: "We live in a very different economic and financial reality, with more demanding and stricter goals, so that the transport budget must be a contraction, a reduction in the limit of indebtedness, a reduction in leadership positions. I recall the reduction of 20 % of administrators, 15 % of operating expenditure. And then he accused the left of populism and said that the right had no idea about the sector. Until we agree with all of this, it is too bad that now you say things that are completely different! I do not know whether the honourable Member has changed his mind, or whether, eventually, he has already entered into the logic of electoral campaign and primary populism, in which he now says something and then says something different. But tomorrow we will have a chance to discuss this. Mr Secretary of State, today we are actually reducing the debt of the transport sector in Portugal. Beyond the strikes, which create difficulty and unpredictability, the number of passengers in Portuguese transport is increasing...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u164	What strikes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u165	... and, Mr Bruno Dias, we are still doing what is good, which is seeing public transport full and not empty. It's good for those who use and it's good for companies that provide that service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u166	But what strikes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u167	And more: we managed to reduce 3800 employees without a single dismissal, I repeat, without a single dismissal. I would like to make it clear that today we have more balanced companies—just look at the results of EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization). I will not have time to clarify and clarify all this matter, but just look at the accounts or, paraphrasing a former Prime Minister: "It is to make the accounts! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” At the time, he failed the accounts; now, if you do, they will surely succeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u168	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u169	Madam President, I am just making a little warning. For those who argue that the TAP could be intervened with State aid, there is news of what happened to LOT, which is the public airline in Poland, which in a restructuring plan was obliged to review not only its fleet but also to reduce 39 % of employment and to have a set of difficulties and to cancel lines. That's what we don't want for TAP. What we want for the TAP is that it strengthens the lines, that it maintains all the jobs that need to be maintained, that it strengthens its importance for the national economy and does not do what you say is possible but that there is more and more evident evidence of results and decisions of the European Union that it is not possible, that we use state aid mechanisms, because it does not give TAP what we want to give it, that it is to have a higher TAP, to fly higher and to contribute more to the national economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u170	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying the following: there will be more debates on transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u171	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u172	I shall conclude, Madam President. We could find consensus to achieve a sustainability strategy for transport companies and most of them are available to do so. I hope that the Socialist Party will also be, because on the far left side of the Socialist Party, what they want is to destroy public transport and help private companies, because these, yes, benefit every time we leave public transport companies in financial difficulty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u173	Frankly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u174	For an intervention by the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I do not want to make clear the truly regrettable attitude of the Secretary of State, who has chosen to completely ignore the concrete questions put to him on the withdrawal of catamaran and ferry ships from Transtejo and Soflusa; on the problems of maintaining and operating river transport and, moreover, also from rail transport; on the exorbitant price of public transport and on the concrete issue of 4 /NP 18 and sub23 for young people; on the dishonest and broken commitment by the government to reformed and pensioners from the Metropolitan of Lisbon. It is sad, but revealing the contempt this government shows for the people and for the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u177	It's still time to respond, Mr. Secretary of State. On the other hand, it also responds, in relation to TAP workers, to those who have been hired in time to know that they are going to the street shortly ; on the workers of the sector to whom you have withdrawn the right to transport, railways and workers of the public sector companies; on the taxi sector, for which so far no Member or Member of the Government has spoken,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u179	... that this government continues to ignore and increasingly harm the country's southern villages, villages, cities and cities, and that it has to do with the problem of underground taxis, with the problem of unfair competition, with the problem of multinationals who want to take care of the sector, such as Uber U.S., that even agreements with TAP have done, with the problem of the transport of children and patients. You don't have a word for the taxi sector and come and talk about the interior of the country! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u181	And, concerning the interior of the country and the most disadvantaged regions, they speak of the Vouga Line, speak of the West Line, which the Council of Ministers decided that they were to close and that only the fact that they were working today is a victory for the struggle of the people and a heavy defeat of this government. They talk about the interior of the country, go to the villages and villages of the interior to ask people the advantages they had with the disappearance of the National Road, the end of the public service. You still want to turn public services into private business and want to continue on the path of PPPs and guaranteed income for economic groups. Mrs. Members of the Government, what is really important is that this government goes away and leads right policy with it. And yesterday it was late! For that, even TGV can go, ladies. Members of the government! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u182	The Bureau shall not record any entries at least at this time. We are almost nearing the end of the debate with the almost exhausted times. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia was written to whom I give the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u183	Madam President, I did not register before because I was saving myself to ask Mr. Secretary of State for clarification, because as time is still available, I assumed it would be to speak. Presumably. I have that right, I guess! In any case, since the Secretary of State has not taken this initiative, I will encourage you, perhaps, to answer one of the specific questions raised by the Greens and which the Secretary of State has completely ignored, but which I think it is important to have an answer from the Government. As we prepare for the present, it is important that we also have a look at the future. Mr Secretary of State, there is much talk about climate change, there is much talk about the need to promote sustainable cities and the question of transport is a key part of all these issues. I spoke to you about what I described as an ashtray committed by the government when it removed certain incentives for young people to use collective transport. Of course, I do not consider that the only possible incentive is the existence of a 4 /NP 18 or a sub23 pass, but I consider them important elements to encourage young people to use collective transport, because we want to remove cars from the city. It is a difficult question, Mr Secretary of State, to make people abdicate from individual transport when, above all, they do not have a quality offer of collective transport and where — even around Lisbon, the more inside of the country — many places have to collect because they do not have collective transport from a given time. It is difficult to create a new paradigm of mobility in these circumstances. However, it is necessary to generate a course so that young people use collective transport and that it gives them satisfaction for their needs and that in the future they do not feel that there is a utility in abdicating collective transport for individual transport. This habit is a fundamental issue. So, having committed the ashtray you committed, what does the government prepare for this objective? Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to you from within when the great paradigm of this government is to close, close, close...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u184	You've finished your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u185	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, listen to you from the inside when the great paradigm of this government is to close, close, close — and could continue to say repeatedly close, close, close... — public services at all levels seems like a joke, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u186	The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications was also appointed to intervene. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I intervene to try to answer the questions that have now been raised on the subject of the Transwealth. There is no proposal in my Office concerning any fleet replacement. So there is nothing I can add to that. On the day when there is and if there is, I shall be able to pronounce myself concretely. I would also like to be able to address two other issues. As for the first, on the steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23, raised by the two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: we have actually changed policy and extended income support by means of the Social Pass + rules. That is, today, we have not only young people, but also all members of the family with lower incomes or who are unemployed to benefit from this discount.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u188	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u189	Seriously, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u190	What does that mean? That we do not support transport based on age, but on income, in a country of scarce resources. That was the political option we took. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] A final note on the Carris and Metro reformers. I think you guys are. Members know that it was the government, for more than a year and a half, that, on its own initiative, following the decision taken on the need for financial sustainability of companies, made two proposals to the Reformers of Metro and Carris. We didn't have any answers. But until I can confirm to you, because I believe that the UGT has already given public notice of this, that, following this debate, I have in my office a meeting with the reformers of one of the companies, Carris, who called for this same meeting, in an attempt to reduce the impact that exists for these workers. Do you know what that means, Mr Bruno Dias? We have made two proposals, to which we have not had an answer, and we are once again available for dialogue. We will try to find solutions that will reduce the impact of this decision. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u191	You raise your problems and then you talk like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u192	The next intervention is the Left Block. Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u193	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you still have one minute and six seconds, can you take advantage to answer the central question of this debate, to which you are fleeing from the beginning: why will you privatize the entire public transport supply in our country? Don't miss a company! Reply, Secretary of State. Do not find evasives of the type « sustainability was one of my objectives ». For it is, but sustainability, now, goes all right to the private—very well arranged and very well arranged. Everything goes to the private! Another of its objectives is quality. Yes, sir, Secretary of State, but what quality? The quality and safety of the service that was built by public companies with the effort, commitment and dedication of their workers? Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you have to listen to the guidelines, but if there is anyone in this debate who deserves congratulations on the workers and workers of public transport companies and it was for them that the Secretary of State should have the first word. But you didn't! You didn't, Mr. Secretary of State! So you have one last chance to answer, because unless the obvious conclusion of this debate is that it is indeed very important to liquidate or privatize is not your motto, it is even your ideology, Mr Secretary of State! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u194	There are no more entries in the Bureau for speeches or questions. [[Pause.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u195	It is for questioning the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u196	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u197	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work. In order not to repeat and then the government is running out of time, I ask the other benches if there is any more question they would like to put to Mr. Secretary of State, because otherwise there is no time to answer everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u198	You still have 10 minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, we can only sign up for interventions. Does any of you want to speak? [[Pause.]] With no further inscriptions, I will close the debate... The Bureau recorded the inscription of Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino, PS. You have the floor, Mrs Deputy, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, I will not actually ask Mr State Secretary any questions. What I am going to say is that, after these four years and at the end of this debate, what can be concluded is that this government is an enemy of public transport, is an enemy of citizens and has a retrograde environmental policy. More: they eliminated services, they degraded hours, they increased prices, they removed passengers from public transport... and they may well come here to give an example of one or another service in which they have increased. The absolute priority was budgetary management, but despite any chart that could show, they increased indebtedness by EUR 3600 million, similar to what happened in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And more: a few months from the end, the government is eager to conclude contracts, unilaterally compromising the country and putting the future of the Portuguese. It is at Metro do Porto, it is at STCP... It is not clear why they have this ideological fury of handing over to Carris and the Metro of Lisbon to privates, even taking into account the rights and will of the City Hall of Lisbon. It is also a race to privatize TAP. And, Mr Hélder Amaral, my dear colleague, no one here wants to put state aid into the TAP, so it is not worth using this argument. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also the merger of the REFER with the Estradas de Portugal, in which the only thing that is announced is hundreds of millions of euros of savings. In what? At collective redundancies, redundancies of more than 600 workers. But it is also so, Mr. Secretary of State, in the viaductive macabros of unfinished and stopped works, of connection, for example, between Sines and Beja. But this is also the case in the hundreds of millions of euro savings in PPPs, which have been announced dozens of times and, in fact, no savings have been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the area of transport is a European priority for the Juncker Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u201	You've finished your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u202	I will finish, Madam President. But, in Portugal, it is not just a matter of liquidating or privatizing companies, we are on speeding back to carriage time, Mr Secretary of State! [[PS laughter.]] And more: you are the worst stereotype of the snake bath vendor, who sells « cat per hare»,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u203	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u204	...because what you do is announce something and the opposite, but the final inheritance is in fact only the destruction of the public transport service and the mismanaged privatisations that you are putting on the table. The only good news, Mr. Secretary of State, you know what it is? It's just that this actually lasts only a few more months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u205	The Bureau has an indication of a request for clarification by Mr Paulo Cavalier from the PSD. Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino no longer has time to answer, but the honourable Member has every right to make his request for clarification. There is no time to answer, but there is the political self-evident value of the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u206	Madam President, I will make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u207	You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mr Paulo Cavalier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u208	Madam President, I wanted to ask the Socialist Party a question, but how good they are to manage time as to manage the country always spend all the time they have available, as they have spent a lot of our money. [[PSD applause.]] But what is important now, at the end of this debate, is that we have discussed several things here today because they have been done, because they have happened, because this government has a mark that is not to speak, that is to do. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Paula Vitorino.]] Mr Member, you have had your time, now let me do my speech. Each one chooses his own way. It is true that we could have done something better, as in everything in life, but did. And we're not talking about any agenda, those that no one knows well what it says, where everything is and there's nothing. But let's see what the transport sector taught us. He has taught us that there are not all over the country and that there are not, for example, all the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, where I am from, but that we all pay with our taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u209	That's why we pay different taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u210	And if we see here, with the objective data we have, we know that if nothing had been done, there would have been no restructuring of companies and a significant reduction in the size of the board of directors and the number of heads. But does the Socialist Party not agree with the reduction in the number of people in the board of directors and the number of chiefs? Oh, my God! Or, then, with the creation of the Social Pass +, that, yes, a real social pass, are not discounts for everyone, but for whom do you need? Oh, my God! [[PS and PCP protests.]] And the State budget, with the reduction of compensation, does the Socialist Party not agree with this either? Oh, my God! We know, too, that it has already been said, that if we had not done anything, in the short term the indebtedness that we would have in 2015 would be in the order of EUR 23 billion. This is the reality. A graph has already been shown here. Each one shows his chart, what it is necessary is to test things as they should be. The Socialist Party needed to find and correct its agenda. Yesterday, in a committee, I heard the Socialist Party criticize the government, saying that when it speaks of Community funds, it is propaganda. It is another area where we should have consensus. But today's PS is equal to the rest of the left, which is not used to ruling: it only lists problems and never says what its formula is to solve them. We do not know an idea from this debate. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] We all know this bug, which is the « destruction of the transport sector », but privatizations went well. Even today, we have been given an example of agreements with companies such as ANA and CTT, where services have not worsened. It's just seeing the results, for example the number of passengers, which has increased. But in conclusion, I'm going to repeat a metaphor that I've used here once. The Costa do Castelo has to speak to the Costa do Rato and we have to understand ourselves in this matter. The Costa, President of the House, should explain to Antonio Costa, Secretary-General of the PS, that it is not with threats that we are going there. I will read here a little news that says: « António Costa recognizes the Coelho Pass Government more will than that of Socrates ». And the journalist pointed out that the Secretary-General was speaking on behalf of the President of the Chamber of Lisbon and not on behalf of the Secretary-General of the PS. But António Costa said a remarkable thing, which is this: «If someone buys Carris and Metro against the will of the Lisbon Chamber, he can be sure that it will be very wrong for him». But is this a threat? It's going to go wrong, how? The President of the António Costa Chamber will do what? Close the streets? Are you going to cut off the light? Aren't you going to let the buses pass? Is this the way we need to resolve matters?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u211	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u212	I shall conclude by saying that we fully understand our competences, because we know and do not agree with the tourist rate that Antonio Costa wants to create in Lisbon, but that is not why we confuse our competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u213	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u214	I will finish, Madam President. The Socialist Party and its leader should once and for all have the courage to accept the challenge of the Secretary of State for Transport and go to the Metro and Carris contest. Why doesn't he agree to go to the contest? If you think you have much more capacity, then go to the contest of this concession and so we can really see what António Costa thinks about this sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u215	The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications is also registered for an intervention. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs. Helena Pinto, not directly to herself but to Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, who has already answered the advantage of having concessions with the possibility of being open to private. We always said that it had to be on a comparable basis, the investment and the lowest cost than was provided by the State. [[BE's protests.]] Mrs Deputy, I used to point out again the difference we have. Both we, the Government and all the parties represented here defend the quality and regularity of public service. What separates us is the view on which entities must necessarily provide such service. The honourable Member and the bench to which she belongs say that the public service can only be provided by public entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u217	There's nothing left!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u218	We say it can be provided by public entities, local entities and private entities. [[BE's protests.]] It can be any kind of entity, that's not what moves us. What moves us is the quality of service and not exactly the nature of the shareholder who provides it. Mrs. Deputy, let me give you some precision. You are right when you say that the achievement of the objectives that have been achieved in the sector should not only come to the government, it should also come to the workers. But the main fulfillment goes to those who show respect for patience in the face of strikes, for tolerance in the face of the increase in price... [[PCP and BE protests.]] ... I repeat, for tolerance in the face of the increase in the price...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to listen to Mr. Secretary of State. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u220	I was talking about tolerance in the face of the increase in the price, Madam President. Once again, the opposition Members were rushed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u221	He spoke in strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u222	For the tolerance given to the increase in prices at the beginning of the legislature and for the resilience to continue users and customers, it is for them that we work every day — it is not for workers, businesses, leaders or administrators. It is for customers and users, on behalf of the service, that we develop our transport policy every day. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u223	Four million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u224	As you all know, this model of debate involves a closing phase which is completed by the initiative party and the government. The party to the initiative is the Left Block and, as such, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block marked this appeal to the Government under the motto « Destruction of public transport supply ». It was a subject for debate and it is an accusation to the Government and during this debate we prove that this is a certain accusation, because, in fact, what is at stake is an ideological will to destroy the public transport supply in our country. The list of companies to privatize, concession or liquidate is long. The whole public supply is on this list and it is scary because there is not a single public company that stands aside from this government will. In river transport, in road transport, in rail transport, in air transport, there is no single public company and in maintenance there is exactly the same trait. That is why it is not just the unfortunate phrase of the Secretary of State for Transport that liquidates or privatizes; it is indeed the government's cry of war for everything that is offered public transport, and that is why we do not accept it and that is why we have started this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Government and the majority have told us here several times and in various ways that they wanted to defend the public offer, which they wanted to defend quality. Well, there comes to our memory a beat phrase, that saying where it is said « Good preach Friar Thomas, who says much but does little». And in fact, it does nothing here, because whoever wants to defend doesn't privatize; whoever wants to protect doesn't spoil what is public offer and whoever wants to give quality doesn't lower the standards of public transport supply. Because the rhetorical path does not pass that, it is a rhetorical path. But until it is worth going back in this line of the path that the majority and the government have been plotting to realize that there is no rational validity, there is only one prejudice. At first it was the debt and it all served to justify that nothing could be made public. The debt of transport was unsustainable and therefore had to be privatized. After all, the will of privatization remains, but debt is also on the side of the State. Hidden the debt under the State carpet, removing that weight from above the privates, next came the blackmail of the operational balance. And with this, prices were increasing, increasing, supply was decreasing, reducing and people know that today they pay more for less service. And also this blackmail, about the operational balance, has fallen because, in fact, what is unbalanced is the public supply—just ask the people and they say. They are today dissatisfied with public transport because this government has taken away quality from them and, in the name of that balance, has taken balance to their lives. And finally, the idea of cost reduction came up and here the shock with reality is no less objective. Let us ask, then, whether, for example, there has been a reduction in costs in this sector in the ANA. No, no, no. Rates and taxis continue to increase, and the government passively says: « Everything is in the order of charges », « it is normal, it was planned ». Well, they didn't tell the country they were planning when they said they wanted to privatize. So this cost reduction is getting more and more expensive to people. Let us see, for example, the STCP, when Mr. Secretary of State tells us here: « No, I assure you everything is protected, everything is guarded». That's right. You are careful that the private persons remaining in this competition may grant up to 60 % of the network! They can now buy eight-year-old vehicles. Yeah, you're careful, and the privates are gonna thank you. In the end, the private will really appreciate all these changes that the government is making! So when the government talks about sustainability, the question to be asked is this: sustainability for whom? And here the answer is clear and unequivocal: it is not for people, who know that these levels of quality of public services are unsustainable, but for the private, who know that they will have companies that give profits, they know that they will have companies that guarantee them incomes, because if they do not, they know that they will have on the side of the state and are sure that, on the part of the debt, they will not have at least 1 cent. Now, this is the choice of sustainability for those who really want sustainability for the private and not for the populations. But now the sustainability of what, also with regard to labour relations? Mr. Secretary of State is talking, he's talking, he's talking, and he's going back and half, there's the varnish. Back and a half, we already realize why, when the workers tell us that they try to talk to the administrations of the public companies, they don't open the door to them. After all, orders come from above—and come well from above, from the Ministry, particularly from the Secretary of State, who is responsible for the area. It is because he does not want to talk to the workers, because he does not even like the strikes: "Wicked workers, who have the means to claim rights! It would be so much easier if they were quiet, if they were obedient! If they even accept that they are performing a bad service, but if they were little and not a word on the matter». But no, there are workers' rights and people's rights, and it's those rights that the government doesn't like. That is why this government is over. That's what we're sure of. But let's also talk about quality. Let us now see why the government, which loves quality so much, wants to privatize EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company). There was no single explanation about why the government does not recognize EMEF as the best company in the country of railway maintenance, which is now also the only one, and which has shown, internationally, that it has gallons inside and has gallons outside. The government does not recognize this quality. EMEF has no financial problems because it is walking towards its sustainability, even in government parameters. It is indeed a huge defect: it is public and therefore needs to be privatized. This is the choice of a government that does not take into account an essential aspect, namely sovereignty. And now we have to answer a very simple question: if we need to respond to cataclysm or calamity, if we need to act on the mechanisms of civil protection, and if this government programme goes ahead and everything is privatized, to which will the government grab to defend sovereignty, to which will the government grab to defend people? Are you going to ask the private? Or are you going to make a civil request, too, in these cases? This is the choice of a government that does not leave stone on this matter. Finally, Madam President, and not to lengthen my time, I want to say the following: in fact, we realize from the speeches of the Secretary of State that he, when he rises in the morning and sees himself in the mirror, looks anxiously at himself and asks himself: "What else can I privatize? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He actually has an objective: it is not so much the question of the balance of public accounts, it is not even the desire to have quality standards in the transport service; it is, indeed, to win the gold medal of privatizations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u226	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u227	I will finish, Madam President. He wants to leave the government with the gold medal on the lapel, but we know well that this gold medal is made with the rings of what we have built for decades and with what the country cannot lose. This government is in time and its policies too. And there is a guarantee: that the people who stay here will stay to fight against these choices and this destruction of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u228	The Government has the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications at the close of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the debate that brought us here today, required by the Left Block on public transport, ends up not a debate on public transport but on public undertakings. Not that we no longer doubt that what we were talking about was the capital of companies and not the service itself. We were talking about the ideological matrix that only the State can provide public services versus what matters is the quality of the service and not the capital it provides.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u230	Who talked about taxis, who did it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u231	That difference we have is clear. It was also clear that the Left Block seeks to always interpret the Government's thinking on various matters. On this, Mrs. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government responds with results: quality, because not only have we kept the public service with quality indices, comparable to those of the main European countries, as we adjusted the price parity of purchasing power to the European average, as we guarantee the sustainability of the service on behalf of that same service and customers and users who use it every day in home-work and leisure travel. It was known that the financial package did not cover the operational deficits, nor the interest and debt to pay the interest, associated with the historical disaster we inherited. That is why, in good time, the Socialist Party, in the negotiation of the previous Memorandum, put the Strategic Transport Plan ( PET) to be presented three months later. In other words, it acknowledged that it had been six years without presenting this Plan and that the following Government had the ability to present three months later. We introduced, executed and met. Without hurry, Mrs. Member, without hurry, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we outlined the Plan at the beginning of the Parliament and I congratulate it until the end of the Parliament. As is normal in a democratic regime, what the Constitution foresees is that in four years the government will implement its policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u232	Are you talking about the West line or the Vouga line?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u233	With regard to the competitions currently being implemented, I would like to reiterate here, for rest of the people, because it is for them that we govern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u234	Only if it's for the people of Lichtenstein!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u235	... that we not only have the guarantee in the specification of charges that the quality and regularity of the service is maintained, even if provided by private persons, as tariff guarantees are also made in that specification of charges, i.e. rates can only be adjusted to inflation. We really want to quickly materialise the savings provided for in this invitation to tender. And that is why the Government has already confirmed this week's award by the Port Metro Management Board for the Port Metro competition. This award has already been confirmed by the Government, because we want the EUR 98 million savings in 10 years, which is provided for in the proposal for the current cost, to be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u236	With EMEF or without EMEF?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u237	I'd still like to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to make savings of EUR 58 million in 10 years. And in the Carris, in the Metro of Lisbon, in the Transtejo, in the Soflusa and in all the other examples that have been recalled to us today by the Block of Left we want to guarantee quality of service, budget savings, present and future sustainability. That's what moves us. It's not any interest, it's no business. In fact, it is enough to see what the association of private passenger carriers says about the competition. How do you praise the government? Does it praise economic conditions? No, he joins the Socialist Party in protesting the contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u238	Join the camera presidents!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u239	It is clear here: from our point of view, it is the service, the sustainability of the service and the customers that interest us. I would like to end this debate by calling for us, in the months that we are missing, to work together, government and opposition, the parties that support the government and the opposition, in the consensus which I believe has also been able to identify today. First consensus: decentralization of competences. This month we will have the presentation in the plenary of the new passenger transport regime, which guarantees this revolution in the decentralization of competences and in the coverage of the public service throughout the country. Second consensus: the sustainability note. I believe that all the benches, regardless of having a view on the path to this sustainability, support it. We cannot spend what we do not have on a service that can be provided in conditions of sustainability with our own revenue. We therefore discuss in Parliament the alternatives to ensure this sustainability. [[Don't call anyone inside!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u240	Finally, with regard to the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan, PETI3 +, which provides for an investment of EUR 6000 million in the coming years on rail, the maritime-port sector and the road sector, we are talking about the Vouga line, today, and the West line, the Douro line, the Mininho line,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u241	What about the Beira Baixa?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u242	...and from the Beira Baixa line, from the North line, from the Algarve line and international corridors, they are all planned there. Just as in the maritime-port sector we have the ambition, which, by the way, is also shared by the President of the Chamber of Lisbon, António Costa, and also, to develop the port sector and port capacity in Lisbon. But not only. We also want to develop them in Sines, without recourse to public money. And we want to develop them in Legions, without using public money. It is in this way, whenever anyone is interested in developing the transport and infrastructure sectors, without State intervention, that we guarantee more quality, with sustainability, without paying the present and future generations. This is what we want it to be the mark of the last few months of the government in the implementation of a plan that was drawn up four years ago. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-11.u243	On destruction of public transport supply ( BE). I congratulate the Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications. I still want to inform you. Members on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting shall include an up-to-date debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, to debate and question the Government about its responsibilities in the significant increase in poverty in our country. We will also proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 769 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of domestic violence by amending the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September 2009 and the second amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 745 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the child protection organization, ensuring greater protection for all victims of domestic violence and other forms of violence in the family context. Jointly, draft resolutions 1220 / XII ( 4 ) will also be considered. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the public invitation to tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Collective Transport Society of the Port, SA ( PS ), 1190 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By revoking the private sub-concession process of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ), 1251 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Announces the public tender for the sub-concession of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 1252 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Announces the public tender procedure for the sub-concession of the STCP — Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA(BE) and 1255 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — By maintaining the public management of STCP and Port Metro ( Os Verdes ) companies. We will also discuss, together, in general, the projects of lein.o 705 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Repeals special mobility and the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions ( PCP ), 748 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Common system of mobility between civil servants and civil servants ( PS ) and 704 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). Finally, petition No 433 / XII will be appreciated ( 4. (a ) — Submitted by Ana Patrícia de Almeida Bonifácio and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to recognize the competences of architects as set out in Law No 31/2009 and to express itself against the proposals of lein. 226 and 227 / XII ( 3. ( a). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
