ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u1	Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers of the Presidency and Parliamentary and Deputy Affairs and Regional Development, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. While Mr. Members take the seats, I ask the Secretary, Mr. Abel Baptista, to read the file before we get on the agenda. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 341 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 35 / 2012 of 23 August 2012 establishing the compensation fund for the universal electronic communications service provided for in the Electronic Communications Act for the financing of the net costs resulting from the provision of the universal service, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 342 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and amends the first Framework Law of the Foundations, approved by Law No 24 / 2012 of 9 July, which falls to 1. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 140 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 91 / 2015 of 29 May 2015 on the merger, by incorporation, of EP — Estradas de Portugal, SA, in the REFER — National Railway Network, EPE, transforms REFER into an anonymous society, renominating it to Infrastructures de Portugal, SA, and approves its Statutes; and draft resolutions Nos 1588/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by promoting the row of Indian figs ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1509 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the public management of the Pousadas da Juventude ( PCP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u3	As you all know, our agenda today consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, who is already present, as well as the other members of the Government. The debate shall take place under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, meaning that today there is no initial intervention by Mr Prime Minister, but questions from parliamentary groups, to which he will answer in sequence by the following order: PCP, PSD, PS, CDS-PP, Left Block and Greens. Let us start the debate and, to open it, I give the floor to the CFP. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, times are conducive to the suspension and concealment of reality. Elections are approaching. This is about social security and the cut of EUR 600 million already in 2016 announced by you from the rostrum during the presentation of the so-called ‘Stability Programme’. The show that followed, offered by the government, was hardly dignified:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u6	...cut yes, cut no, cut maybe... all a matter of consensus. Now, the first question I ask you is: who is telling the truth among the members of the government? The government defends the cut of EUR 600 million in the reforms it proposed to Brussels or not? Or is this a mistake, how do some now intend to make it happen because we are on the sidelines of the elections? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u7	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u8	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the measure referred to in the Stability Programme, which was submitted by the Government and communicated to Brussels and also to Parliament, where it was also discussed. There is no government show, Mr. The members of the Government have sought to explain that the titles that have been written about cuts of 600 million have no reason to be. I shall read what is in the Stability Programme, Mr President, about the introduction of a measure for the sustainability of social security, the impact of which is estimated at EUR 600 million. It is said in the description of the measure: "When it comes to a matter that requires broad social and political consensus, it is imperative that the solution found results in a broad debate involving civil society and necessarily all parties in the arc of governance. Thus, there is currently no detail of the measure to be applied, defining only an obligation to result in a positive impact on the pension system of EUR 600 million, regardless of the combination of expenditure reduction or revenue increase measures to be defined. » This is what is written in the Stability Programme, Mr. it is, of course, precipitated any conclusion that it is a court of 600 million in pensions. I must tell the honourable Member or just remember, because he knows this, that the Government has already been able to present two measures which had a very similar budgetary scope, never represented a cut of 600 million in pensions, the last of which, which was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, provided for a reduction in paid pensions, supplemented by an increase in revenue, which would result in a slight increase in workers' TSU and social VAT. This was the measure rejected by the Constitutional Court, which means that neither the last measure rejected by the Constitutional Court provided for a cut of 600 million in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u9	It's even more serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u10	Mr President, let me tell you that this time is not for concealment, it is a time for all Portuguese to have a precise notion of what is the awareness that political parties have of the reality of social security. Our conscience points out that it is necessary to strengthen the sustainability of social security and that we have put forward the intention to introduce a measure that would have this effect on the social security budget. If no measures were to be presented, this value would have to be transferred from the State budget to social security. Moreover, the State budget transfers more than this and, as you know, the revenue from the State budget is the tax, these are the revenue from the State. This means that, as far as you are saying, when the State transfers from the State budget to the social security budget, Portuguese should pay taxes to make these transfers happen. It is as simple as this, Mr. What we want is that there is as broad a consensus as possible on how to achieve a result, which is to protect taxpayers on the one hand and pensioners on the other. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u11	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, consensus seems to be the magic word, but people are not stupid, they know exactly what the consensus of the national troika in relation to the courts for whom they work or for whom they have worked meant. This call for consensus means that it only wants to extend the basis of support for drastic measures because, reading what you read, stressing that these measures aim primarily at reducing expenditure, it is inevitable that the reduction of expenditure means cutting pensions or other social support subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u14	How do you invent another exit? But in terms of consensus, it is clear that it was the PS that opened the door through the factor of sustainability, through the condition of resources—of course the PS opened the door—but the government "entered the barrels" with these brute cuts that followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u16	And people are very concerned because there is this concrete reference to 600 million. It is not by chance that this government or the parties that support it, last Wednesday, have completely swept away this issue of 600 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u18	Why did they do it? Because they're not with quiet consciousness. That is why we ask: consensus on what? Explain, Mr. Prime Minister, why people do not convince themselves and do not think that they will fool the Portuguese again! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u19	Again, I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u20	Mr President, the honourable Member did not raise any questions, made a process of intent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u21	I asked what consensus is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u22	... but let me tell you that this process of intentions has no reason to be, because the government is committed to the implementation of the Stability Programme and the parties that support the government too. That has already been said quite clearly, Mr President. However, the honourable Member is right: there are those who want to worry about the electorate. There is, in the description of the measure, what Mr has just said. What is said is that it is intended to introduce a measure that has a positive effect on social security of 600 million and, strictly speaking, that can come from the side of expenditure and from the side of revenue and even from a combination of both.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u23	on the side of the expense, they're cuts in pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u24	So, honourable Member, you are seeing that what is written denies what you just said. I ask you, please, not to insist on this formulation. I insist again: we did not propose, even to the last extent that the Constitutional Court did not receive, a cut of 600 million. Therefore, there is no such thing, Mr President! Now it is necessary to tell the Portuguese that if there is a need to strengthen the sustainability of social security and if it costs money, someone will have to pay. I do not want to extend the basis for anything, Mr President, because I have already taken several difficult measures as Prime Minister in this matter. What I want is for the problem to be solved, which is something a little different. And that no longer depends solely on my will, unfortunately, Mr. However, we will not fail to comply with the Constitutional Court's guidelines on this matter, but we are available — and we would like this to be possible before the elections — that they would all know precisely as they would be executed. But once again, Mr President, in order to be able to hold this debate and that consensus is needed more than one. I hope there's still a chance for that. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u25	Again, I give the floor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u26	Mr. Prime Minister, we're here for a dilemma. He said that I had not asked any questions and I insist again: how much will it cost the pensioners, the pensioners, this consensus that he proposes, in particular the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u28	It is an explanation that, logically, should give, because regardless of these words, remain with this consciousness: the current pensioners and pensioners and the future pensioners will not rest, on the contrary, and will not allow them to be deceived again. Mr Prime Minister, I will ask you another question which is of some importance. Today, we know that we need growth, economic development and the defence of our national production. A few days ago, the INE informed the country of the situation of Portuguese fishing. A disaster: brutal catch breakdown, increased trade deficit of fishery products, more slaughtered, less licensed fleet. In 2014 the licensed fleet reached the lowest value since 2006 and thus decreased the fishing fleet licensed for the ninth consecutive year. This is the reality behind the Blue Week, of much propaganda about the politics of the sea. This is the reality that lies behind Lisbon, the capital of the ocean and the discourse to adorn our maritime vocation. On earth it is said that "a lot of birds and little grapes", but it is common for seamen to say that, with this government, "the spears all gave in water". And it is impressive to hear Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, and of the Sea, I believe, that this disastrous situation was expected. How do you respond to this, Prime Minister? Has this dramatic balance of our fisheries situation ever been expected for you? Does it not believe that another fisheries policy, particularly in relation to sardine fishing, which is present in the number of catches but also other urgent measures, such as the guarantee of all fuels, in particular gasoline, is essential? Mr Prime Minister, we often accuse the PSD of its responsibility to the government of having done very bad to the country and in relation to the sea, this example of fishing is in itself dramatic. But this also happened with the destruction of the merchant Navy, which also happened with the destruction of our naval industry. We know that the sea has immense potential for this country to grow and progress, but this tragic balance which is made here by the INE deserved, on its part, a reflection and at least an act of recognition of the disaster of this policy. It will not, of course, but, Mr. Prime Minister, realizing that he is reaching the end of the mandate, be aware that, despite everything, the Portuguese workers and people have not given up in fighting, refusing conformism, refusing to give up. That is why nurses today are on strike not only for their rights but also for the rights of users.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u29	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u30	Please, Mr. Prime Minister, to know that tomorrow, right here in Lisbon, with the Restorers, with this symbology, there will be, on the march, the people demonstrating that they have strength and that sooner or later who will be defeated is this government and not our country and its liberation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u31	I now give the PSD the word. To put questions, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was known yesterday that Greece asked the International Monetary Fund to postpone the payment of a EUR 300 million instalment, the payment deadline of which ended precisely today. The situation in Greece, I believe, concerns all of us. At a time when the European economies are reviving, at a time when unemployment is also decreasing — and this is happening in Europe and also in Portugal — this definition of the situation in Greece is worrying, as I said, and I think it is also worth a reflection in this debate. The first point we should make is, of course, to ask where Portugal would be, where we would be, if we had followed Greece's strategy. Would we have the economy growing? Would we have unemployment down? Would we be in a process of recovering income from people and families? Would we have such low interest rates, some even negative? It is appropriate to say, Mr. First, what a difference! on a day when Greece unfortunately assumes that it has no money to pay to the International Monetary Fund in Portugal, fortunately, we are paying in advance and we are doing so to save interest. What do the opposition parties say about this, those who deluded with the historic victory of Syriza? Let us, finally, exemplifyingly, heed what the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party said, for example, António Costa. on 25 January, Dr. António Costa said: « This is another sign of the change in the political orientation that is under way in Europe, the exhaustion of austerity policies and the need to have another policy ». [[PSD laughter.]] And he said more: « It is important that other European countries give strength to the results recorded in Greece, which give strength to this change. It must be contrary to the wishes of the Portuguese Government, which does not want to change.' This was January 25. More recently, after other interventions on 23 May, he said, for the same purpose of change in Europe, Dr. António Costa: « This is a fight that we have to fight, not in a foolish way, like Syriza, but in an intelligent and constructive way». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the path of the change of Dr. António Costa and all those who followed this line of thought failed. Dr. António Costa's "Syrizist" change has produced no results, and so far, because of doubts, he already says that it has nothing to do with it. It is more or less like the promises of the Socialist Party: they are all very good, they are all brilliant, they are all viable, but in the face of the reactions they provoke, they are constantly changing, if not even daily. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This erratic, opportunistic and immediate stance, the stance of the day's soundbit, of media follow-up, Prime Minister, is not truly a change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u33	No new one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u34	It's a political acrobatic, with a doll on top of a doll. It is instability and impreparation. But, Mr. Prime Minister, there are changes that, in fact, are worth changes, changes thought about, structural changes, structural changes. Changes like those we have seen in Portugal since 2011 and changes that in Europe must also be promoted, not that acrobatic, erratic, radical, Syriza or the Socialist Party. Europe also needs, indeed, a change, but a reasoned change, a consensual change, why don't you say so, that it can draw up illusions from the crisis and that it can not go away but bring the Member States of the European Union closer together. Therefore, Prime Minister, I believe that the position the Government has followed in this area is the correct one. The contribution to change in Europe that the Portuguese Government and the Prime Minister have made is the right contribution. For example, when they propose the creation of a European monetary fund, which in future acts in the financial assistance of the Member States of the European Union, which can finance structural reforms and investment projects and which can also cushion social impacts when countries are faced with the crisis situation. So, Prime Minister, I ask you two questions. The first is to know how Portugal is prepared to face a possible worsening of the situation in Greece, with all the impacts that may occur there. This is an issue which also matters to Portugal and the Portuguese. The second is to know what strategy we can defend at this time in Europe, which we are indeed a living example of the experience we have experienced, in which we face and win an external aid period, that we can also contribute with this example and with that experience so that Europe can build a framework of greater financial stability, greater capacity for economic growth, job creation and more confidence in the peoples of the Member States of the European Union. Mr Prime Minister, I believe that these issues are as relevant as we know that preserving the path of economic and financial recovery also depends on the internal decisions that we, the sovereign bodies, the Portuguese people when he is called to take a stand, but obviously also depends on the decisions we have taken at European level within the European Union. in Europe as in Portugal, the closest times are not times of adventure or experientialism. Portugal and Europe should learn from the crisis and should indeed be cautious about the future. We know, Mr Prime Minister — we know very well in Portugal — that fantasy and radicalism are enemies of growth, are enemies of sustainable employment, are enemies of the preservation of the social state and are enemies of the capacity that we may have to remove an austerity that has been, and is, still very heavy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u35	Those who have seen in Syriza the inspiration of change, those who promise uncertainty, if not the impossible, are on one side; on the other hand, those who, like us, give viable guarantees, give realistic guarantees, meet objectives— [[PS laughter.]] ... moreover, they have fulfilled all the objectives that the others, the first, doubted —,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... fulfill the objectives, contrary to what was the prognosis of all others who now manifest themselves. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u36	Two million and seven hundred thousand poor is an objective? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u37	We did not have according to bailout, we did not have a cautious program, we did not have the famous and familiar recessive spiral, contrary to what you had before and, therefore, are very uncomfortable today when we remember this journey. It is true that those who guarantee viable options and realistic options do not promise the impossible, but, as it is proven, sometimes even achieve what seemed impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u38	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u39	In fact, looking back today, for these four years, examining what everyone has said — in the Government, in the majority and in the opposition — this debate is very current. But this reflection, Prime Minister, has much to do with the interest of the Portuguese, the interest of not wasting all the effort they have made over the past few years and the effort to want, ambitious and worthy that this effort will continue to translate into more well-being in the future. This is all at stake today when we look at how political parties see internal politics and how political parties see what change is in fact — change in Portugal and change in Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u40	I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u41	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, first of all, on the situation in Greece, I hope - and once again - that the signs that have been issued on the side of whom the negotiations between the Eurogroup and the Greek Government are being conducted have realised, i.e., signs that there has been progress and that an understanding can be reached. This is important, I believe, for the Greeks, but it is also important for Europe as a whole. From the outset, the Portuguese Government has expressed a constructive position on this objective. It is not possible to reach an agreement without conditions and the conditions cannot fail to respect what the Greek Government believes to be its basis for its support to govern because we live happily in democracies and what European rules are because European rules share the democratic basis of all the democratic countries that make up the European Union. If these rules are observed, then we will all be on equal terms, when we are participating in the same European Union and, in this case, sharing the same currency, which is the euro. I believe, however, that there are some lessons that can be taken from this process. The first is that negotiations processes that bring about a high level of uncertainty have high political, social and economic costs. Greece is certainly not today better than it was half a year ago. I do not know how this negotiation will end, but it is difficult to believe that a country that is unable to pay its international commitments can view the end of these negotiations as an end to a programme and not just, or also, as the beginning of anything else that follows it. Rightly, we did not want to follow that path, nor that approach. The political choices we make have consequences, and they are usually paid by themselves and by the neighbors. I sincerely hope that this story, which started bad, can end well and that this represents a relevant learning for all. But I must say, Mr President, that the lessons of this process, we, without knowing them in advance, were suspicious of what they would be. And that's why you beat us all these years for the Portuguese program to work and close. I don't know if you guys are. Members remember, but I have come to say « cost what it costs », because the cost that is paid when the program is not closed is much heavier, much harder to digest. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is why you are right when you say that you have achieved our objectives. It is that the main and first obligation of the Portuguese Government, the main objective required of this Government, was to close this Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance and release the country either from bankruptcy or from the evaluation of our creditors, which would make this assessment dependent on the financing that Portugal would have to give and which would allow the Portuguese to live more safely. Having said that, it is important to remember that it is not all solved, because the European Commission and the OECD have very well pointed out that we have what is called an important legacy. This legacy is well mirrored, firstly, at the level of structural unemployment, which has increased significantly since 2007 and gradually mirroring what was the model of inconsistent and unsustainable economic development, and at the same time a very high level of debt, which is not only the result of the debt we had in the years prior to the financial bailout, such as the one that came with the financial bailout and the high deficits that have been legislated. That's all right. It was not certain that this government wanted to achieve a smaller deficit every year than the opposition has stopped criticising — the deficit should have been greater and also debt, because debt can only be greater with greater deficit, it is not true, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen? With more deficits, there must be more debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u42	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u43	But we just always wanted to create less budget deficits to curb the evolution of debt. And, in fact, we stopped the evolution of debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u44	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u45	...because she will tend to decrease from this year onwards, as much noise as the opposition does.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u46	No shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u47	That's right! The debt trajectory shows, in net terms, that it will start to fall from this year. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u48	I don't know why you guys are. Opposition Members do not like reality. That's right! But the gentlemen. Opposition Members don't like it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The gentlemen. Opposition Members want a story like the one that happened in Greece, which is: we do not want austerity measures, we do not want to reduce the deficit, because it hurts people, and we want to lower the debt. It's the complete miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u49	Speak up about the fishing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u50	It is the complete miracle: they distribute money, they have more deficit, that there is no problem with debt! Everything's gonna be fine, as we know it's going! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u51	What a lack of democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u52	We did not reproduce this fantasy for election purposes, nor for any other purpose. So we're keeping our strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u53	What about fishing? Oh, my God! Speak up about the fishing, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u54	Now, of course, we know that there are two principles that need to be deepened at European level. The first is the principle of national responsibility. If the principle of national responsibility had been observed all these years, Europe, despite its shortcomings, would not have gone through what has happened. If the countries had done what they should have done, rather than selling illusions to their citizens, Europe would not have gone through what happened — and Portugal in the head. But there is a second principle, which is the common responsibility. As we know, without a common principle of responsibility in an area that shares the same currency, national effort is not enough. And for this reason, Mr President, on the subject of the debate to be held on the deepening of economic and monetary union, I have tabled a set of proposals which are precisely aimed at strengthening this principle of common responsibility in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u55	What about consensus? Oh, my God! Is there no consensus there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u56	First of all, by proposing that we move faster in building a real banking union — it is not yet complete. And it is not complete, firstly, because it does not include, as the Portuguese Government has always said, a deposit guarantee mechanism, with an adequate European guarantee, and secondly because the construction of the appropriate guarantee for the Resolution Fund needs to be effective more quickly. But secondly, we also need what we have designed for a real financial union, because without it, financial fragmentation will never be fully supplanted. And there is a share of risk, which is ultimately assumed by the market itself and which only works if there is a real financial union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u57	That's a beautiful future!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u58	Therefore, a common insolvency scheme for companies would greatly help companies to be able to have access to conditions of financing on equal terms and not penalized by the economic geography in which they are located. And thirdly, we also need, with the lessons of the crisis, to close this cycle that is understood by citizens as a cycle of transfer of resources from one country to another. in fact, the creation of a European monetary fund would solve a number of problems: it would exempt the International Monetary Fund at a time when Europe already has sufficient powers to deal with its financial crises; it would send the European Central Bank to its role as monetary authority, without mixing it with the economic policy negotiations in various countries; and at the same time would prevent the necessary support to those in financial difficulties from in any way representing a transfer from citizens to other citizens, from countries to other countries, from the collective effort of those in the European Union under the same currency to strengthen the European Union itself and the euro zone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u59	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u60	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we are well prepared for the financial volatility that may be associated with the crisis in Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u61	That is a peaceful future!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u62	But there is no doubt that the main threat is not in the short term, it is in the medium and long term. It is that if we start to have a la carte economic and monetary union, in which countries decide to be today and tomorrow not to be why it is — by financial pressure on the markets, by not having money or by their own will — if each year they put this stigma on Europe, then the European project and the single currency will lose the mobilising capacity that they need to maintain for all Europeans.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u63	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u64	I shall conclude, Madam President. And that is the great risk, the risk of the future, which we should avoid today. And we avoid finding, within the treaties themselves, solutions that result from these crisis lessons that we should all know how to withdraw. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u65	I now give the word to the PS. To put questions, Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u66	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are now going to make an 18-minute break here in the Family Talks, in which, as always, we try to bring fear of any alternative and, as always, try to use the time to make the propaganda, although not going very well, before going out, more or less a flop, as two days ago. The guarantees and challenges, coming from who comes...! Guarantees, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Are you able to look at your 2011 election program and come here today talking about guarantees? Oh, my God! The challenges that you have unfortunately won, as you say, are the challenges of emigration, poverty, unemployment and increasing public debt. These were the challenges you have won. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we move on to concrete and important matters. Indeed, the Portuguese Government delivered a document in Brussels, with proposals for reform of the euro area, at the end of May, without any debate, in Portugal. You who always have the word 'consensual' to fill your mouth when they are interested in passing measures that are not popular, on this issue, in which, by the way, they have even made a 180o turn, but go there, 80o or 90o, however, they did not want to discuss this document with the Assembly of the Republic, in particular with the main party of the opposition, before sending them to Brussels. Does it seem normal that there is no discussion in Portugal on such an important issue? Is it normal that only 48 hours ago Members have arrived through the parliamentary committee, this basic document, which was not the target of any previous discussion? Do you think it's normal, Prime Minister? Clearly, the situation is abnormal. And you speak, you speak, you speak about consensus, but you don't tell us anything, neither to us nor to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u67	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u68	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, we are going straight to matters. The first is the fear of the alternative. There's no fear, sir! There's no fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u69	Don't you? Oh, my God! Looks like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u70	What happens in the confrontation of projects and alternatives does not represent the agitation of any fear, just the reality, Mr. What happened in 2011 was not afraid, it was reality, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u71	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u72	What represents the economic strategy that you are defending for Portugal today, ignoring what happened in the periods of your government responsibility and which led to the external rescue, is not a vague threat, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u73	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues ( PS): - Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u74	...is the reality of the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] When you propose to repeat the same policy, Mr President, this cannot be ignored. There's no fear. I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. But it is natural that people want to take good care of what your proposal represents and your alternative project, as you say, and very well. in this measure, Mr, the guarantees we have presented are examined in what our results are. And I think, of course, that the Portuguese know them. You think the Portuguese are grateful to the PS for leaving the Memorandum and Rescue and for not wanting to be left with any of the measures that had to be carried out. You think the Portuguese will thank them for putting themselves out of that responsibility. We shall see how the Portuguese feel about this, Mr. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But he says that we have made a contribution by the Portuguese Prime Minister to the debate that will take place at the European Council on the deepening of economic and monetary union without national debate. He very much likes questions of form rather than content in his speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u75	So? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u76	Does the honourable Member say anything about the one that has been my contribution to the debate I will have on the European Council? Don't say! You don't say! But I must say that I have made several public interventions on these matters and in some cases have come to refer here to these matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u77	Here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u78	...as I did with regard to banking union, as I did with regard to financial union, as I did with regard to the European monetary fund. So, Mr. Deputies, I don't have any secret policies. But it is known that it is the Socialist Party, by the voice of its leader and by its own voice, which says, it is not a week yes, week no, week yes, week yes, that commitments to the elections there are no. In other words, the Socialist Party stands every week out of any commitment and then raises a problem in such a way as to say: "You have played a role in discussion, but have not consulted us." Mr. Deputies, you are under discussion. We are waiting for what you have to say about this. He also knows that I will not fail to look for the discussion space within the European Union which is necessary, with other colleagues, prime ministers, in order to strengthen these positions until the debate of the European Council. They are under discussion and the European Council itself will discuss these matters. You will have the opportunity to tell us what you think about this subject and what you also think about the contribution I have made to the European Council and what I will discuss at the next European Council on the deepening of economic and monetary union. Mr President, there is something I would like to finish with: today we look at European reality and we realize, as I said recently in reply to Mr Luís Montenegro, that the principle of national responsibility cannot be removed from the European construction process. He then said that the principle of common responsibility cannot fail to be strengthened. Does the honourable Member agree that today, Portugal, the Portuguese Government and its Prime Minister are in a better position to demand the fulfilment of a stronger common responsibility, since we fulfil our national responsibility? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u79	You have the floor again, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, these are not questions in form. This is a fundamental issue in democracy, which is respect for the Assembly of the Republic. That's the point! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that Europe is experiencing decisive moments and we know that what is going on with Greece is not something that concerns us. We see that Mr. Prime Minister still has some optimism — although he does not have the same logic as the PSD bench — and let's see how things are going to end. One thing is certain, however, Mr Prime Minister : Greece is in a much worse situation than Portugal because it had much greater austerity than Portugal, which has already been very large. That is the bottom line! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Look at the numbers! Mr. Prime Minister, continuing in this interval of his talks in the Family, we will discuss the question of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. Mr Prime Minister reminded the President of the Republic in July 2014 that the Banco de Portugal has been « permanent» and « categorical » — notes the adjectives — stating that Portuguese can rely on BES. The Prime Minister also recalls that in July 2014 he said the following: « It is important for Portuguese agents and external investors to be able, not only to understand well... » — and I stress the word « well» — «... this difference,... » — between the bank and the family — «... but to be calm in relation to the bank situation ». It is certainly worth recalling the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry which took place in Parliament, where it was extremely clear that the attitude of the Banco de Portugal had been insufficient to avoid the need for public intervention. Question : Do you think it is normal, after the seriousness of what happened with BES and GES, after what you have been saying during the period prior to the solution that was found by the Banco de Portugal, certainly in line with the Government, that the Government appoints for another five years to Governor of the Banco de Portugal someone who does not meet the generalised consensus and respect of this Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u81	It is once again a problem of respect for the Assembly of the Republic! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u82	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the sovereignty organs is assumed when each one assumes his or her powers. Parliament is responsible for hearing the name specified by the Government for the Banco de Portugal. This is Parliament's competence. The responsibility of the Government, in accordance with the law, is to appoint the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. in the same way, it is the responsibility of the Government to submit to the European Council by its Prime Minister in Brussels the proposals of the Government on this matter, and does not in any way violate Parliament's respect. Therefore, Mr President, your idea that there is no respect for Parliament makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u84	Here, here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u85	But a Parliament that wants to make an active statement on matters does so. The honourable Member knows that for more than half a year now it is known that the June European Council will debate the deepening of economic and monetary union. It has been known since last year, Mr. What are you waiting for to say, in Parliament, what does the Socialist Party understand about this matter? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u86	The honourable Member has the initiative, take the initiative. I'm not disrespecting anyone's initiative. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am now exercising the powers of the Government, Mr President. We are going to the question of Banco de Portugal. Governor Carlos Costa was chosen by the Socialist Party to be Governor of the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u87	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u88	It was by the Government of the Socialist Party, wasn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u89	by the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u90	All right, thank you very much! I think that needs to be taken into account. at the time, I was leading the biggest opposition party. He was President of the PSD when the PSD was the largest opposition party in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u91	But was he heard? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u92	I must say that no one has asked me to make any proposal to the place of Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u93	But was he heard? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u94	Mr. Deputy, that's it. But I also want to say, Mr, that even though I do not have to be heard or give suggestions for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Portugal, for the appointment of the administration of the General Deposit Box or any other place that is by appointment of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u95	But was he heard or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u96	Mr President, let me say the following: whenever there are doubts, in a new mandate that begins, on a choice of profile that takes place, it is perfectly plausible — and it would be on the eve of elections — that we listen to the greatest part of the opposition on this matter. But, honourable Member, it makes no sense to ask the Socialist Party whether Dr. Carlos Costa has a profile or not to be Governor of the Banco de Portugal when Dr. Carlos Costa was elected by the Government of the Socialist Party for Governor of Banco de Portugal! Don't you think, sir? Oh, my God! It's not a profile problem, is it? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] So much is not a profile problem that he was chosen by the Government of the Socialist Party for that place. It is therefore a question of whether or not we should assess your mandate. I welcome the mandate of the Governor and therefore the Government has appointed him for a second term. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u97	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u98	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you are evaluating, but there are many people on your bench who do not assess and in Parliament there are many parliamentary groups that do not assess. And we are not interested at this moment in knowing who he has appointed five years ago, it is interesting to know what has been the practice and the results of these last years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, speaking also about important matters, does he think it is normal that he has been designated as the principal responsible for the investigation that was made to the calls, I would say, « mini VIP lists », that you have repeatedly discussed with us in this Parliament, a person who worked until October in the Cabinet of a government colleague of Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio? You think this is normal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u99	What a shortsighted thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u100	Do you think it's normal for chaos in access to computer data? Do you think it's normal that this list has been prepared for a long time, I don't know how many months, going through this month itself, and that nothing was known? Oh, my God! How far can accountability and irresponsibility go? Oh, my God! How far, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u101	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u102	Mr President, Mr President, the honourable Member says that it does not matter who appointed Carlos Costa five years ago. Of course, the memory exercise, for the Socialist Party, never counts! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I know, it doesn't matter! Secondly, Mr President, on the rapporteur of the inquiry, I would just like to make a comment: I must not have any point in coming up with such a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u103	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u104	But I answer your question: the woman who led the investigation was definitely chosen by the Financial Inspector General. She's a financial inspector, she's not appointed by the government! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u105	I also give the floor to Mr Ferro Rodrigues to proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u106	Now you're going to talk about unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u107	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there are a number of issues that I will obviously talk about, using as much time as I have available. If Mr. Prime Minister doesn't manage his time well, that's what I needed the PSD bench not to let me talk! That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u108	With all the taste!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u109	We're not there yet! Mr. Prime Minister, the Supreme Administrative Court accepted as good a precautionary measure against the privatisation of TAP. I would like to ask you whether it is normal to invoke the national interest to continue this perfect adventure, this decision that offends much of the country, when the national interest would be exactly to stop this privatisation immediately. Mr Prime Minister, another issue has to do with employment and unemployment, as has been said. Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration has been in this Parliament and has given us the information that there were 46 000 people with employment-inclusion contracts, who then count as busy and not as unemployed, with a monthly subsidy of €419 or €84, if they have or do not have unemployment benefits — the €84 is anything that is absolutely acquitting. This reduces the official rate of unemployment, because the number of employees in private enterprises is very large. On the issue of pensions, by the way—it was what a newspaper yesterday said, in great parody— Gates and Passos Coelho forgot about the 600 million court. Well, the Portuguese didn't forget. The Portuguese did not forget the cuts that were made before, in wages, in ordinations and pensions. And today there is another response from the Socialist Party's group of economists, in addition to the 29 that Dr. Marco António must still be digesting, which demonstrates that your 600 million cut-off proposal destroys 15 000 jobs, while the PS project allows an increase in the economic growth of the order of 1900 million euros. I think you should take advantage of this response and ask Dr. Marco António to send the 29 answers to prepare us for a debate where you can be an active part. I am also referring to a fundamental question: Mr. Prime Minister said some time ago that the history of the politics of his government, the history of the politics of austerity, was a story that ended well. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, it's not a story that ends well. Mr Prime Minister, of course, has the notion of a statistic published on 1 June at European Union level on the satisfaction of life in general, in which Portugal is currently the penultimate, only surpassed, for worse, by Bulgaria, and the aspect of life leading to the greatest dissatisfaction by Portuguese is the financial situation of families, and that is your full responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u110	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have just heard the PS talking about history, but a story, or a concept of history, I would say, very selective. This is because the Socialist Party seems to forget who has appointed it, it seems to forget how the country went bankrupt, it seems to forget the Memorandum of Understanding that we had to sign, or that it signed on behalf of the country, and even forgot — see, Mr. Prime Minister! — what I said in 15-year debates on the VIP list. In fact, it is always extraordinary that the Socialist Party, on the VIP list, speaks of a high public official...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u112	Ex-advisor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u113	... but do not apologize for saying here that Mr. Prime Minister lied when he said that the government knew nothing about the VIP list, and that is precisely what concludes the investigation. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u114	It is necessary to respect the Assembly of the Republic and respect it, when we are wrong and in our own place, to say: 'I was wrong, I am sorry, although it has been clarified, the government did not know nothing'. But, Prime Minister, it is interesting that, in a week rich in facts from the INE point of view, so often cited here by the opposition, the Socialist Party has forgotten some facts, which I would like here to remember. First fact: Friday, May 29th, the INE made a high growth review in one quarter, which is not usually favorable, which rose from 1, 5 % to 1, 6 %. The Socialist Party has ignored this and has not talked about the growth of 6, 8 % of exports, which has contributed much to this same growth. Second, the gross formation of fixed capital, i.e. investment, confirms that recovery has come to remain, registering a marked rise. Thirdly, on Tuesday, 2 June 2015 — it was a few days ago, Mr Ferro Rodrigues — the INE came to say, on unemployment data, that with greater investment and greater growth there was, in what is a very serious social fracture, a reduction in unemployment, and he did not mention it. And it's good to see that about unemployment—there's the question of history, the question of memory... [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] You'll hear what I'm saying, you might remember any little thing and you'll see that this is familiar to you. When the Socialist Party was in the Government, in 2007, full economic growth and still without the 2008 European crisis, the unemployment rate was 7 %. With the policies of the Socialist Party — those who now want to recover — from the injection of public investment to job creation, unemployment rose from 7 % to 12 % in 2010. Repeat: 12, 5 %, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u115	In addition to 150 000 jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u116	In other words, the majority not only inherited the Memorandum of Understanding, not only bankruptcy, as an unemployment rate of 12, 5 %. It is clear that with the programme which the Socialist Party has negotiated and signed on behalf of Portugal, and we have never denied it, unemployment has risen to unacceptable values: 17, 7%! But then, slowly, it began to fall to 16%, 15%, 13% and there are predictions that we will end this legislation, despite the Memorandum of Understanding, the redemption, the bankruptcy of the Socialist Party, with a rate of unemployment very similar to that left us. Is he tall? Of course! Do you deserve measures so that we can still reduce it? Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u117	It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u118	But it is not surprising to see the PS, in particular its Secretary-General, Dr. António Costa, sad to say that it is not good news, that it is bad news and in some way it is statistical manipulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u119	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u120	For us, for the 90 000 Portuguese who have been employed in the last year, for the 36 000 who have been employed in the last four months or for the 11 000 who have been employed in the next month, i.e. from March to April, have obtained employment, this is neither bad news nor statistical manipulation, the fact that the unemployment rate has fallen. That should be good news for the gentlemen, because it's for these Portuguese. But you seem to be sad when there's good news. Is the unemployment rate high? Of course! Do we have to improve? Of course! But it is not getting sad, denying the evidence and hiding these numbers that we solve the problems. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to recall the fourth and last fact that was also forgotten by the opposition, the OECD report, a report that the opposition so often likes to quote when the news is less good. What did we know about the OECD report yesterday? The OECD has confirmed that Portugal will grow more, that it has less debt and that it has the controlled deficit. Moreover, it is the first international institution to provide for a deficit of less than 3 % and when it is expected to exceed 3 %, the PS recalls it. But the OECD also expects more job creation, i.e. less unemployment in our country. however, there are two questions that are still curious. What did the OECD say? It has been said that it is necessary to progressively reduce IRC in order to create jobs with more investment co-option, precisely what the government has done in the face of opposition. But the most curious, Mr. Prime Minister, was what the OECD said about the National Health Service. I quote: « There is sustained progress in improving the quality of health in Portugal, making it possible to maintain expenditure restraint », i.e. Mr. Prime Minister, to do more and better with less. This is called good management. It is another concept that the Socialist Party has clearly erased in its history. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Here you have arrived, Prime Minister, and as has already been said, it seems increasingly clear that there are two ways: the path proposed by the majority, which is to recover economy, to regain employment, to recover progressively but sustainably purchasing power; and the path of the Socialist Party, which is to erase history, to escape its responsibilities, to rest expenses, to restore deficit and, eventually, to restore the troika if they had responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u121	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u122	Let's discuss concrete things!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u124	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, did well to recall the latest data from both the OECD and the INE, because they are, firstly, independent entities and institutions that are not only useful to illustrate, independently, the evolution that we have been recording as to point out the important aspects that we still have to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u125	What do you look like?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u126	with regard to the National Health Service, I believe that the observation made by Mr Nuno Magalhães is even very relevant, because during all these years the threat that has been made, in general by the opposition but surely by the Socialist Party, to the head, was that we were destroying the National Health Service. They have come to make petitions on the matter, they have appealed to the President of the Republic not to resign the Government, at least the Minister, to change politics, anything, but this policy for the National Health Service could not continue. We were facing the imminent destruction of the National Health Service. The truth is that the reality not only confirms this apocalyptic scenario that was launched by the opposition as it has been reinforcing the idea that, despite the most serious crisis we have experienced — I always insist, because it is true, that it was the most serious crisis that any of the living has memory, there was no other crisis in Portugal of this gravity that is the memory of those who walk here — despite the restrictions, we were able to make our social state show resilience and, more than that, we were able to improve the quality and service provided in various dimensions of the state, and the National Health Service was one of them. We have better information today, we have more quality services today, although we have had less resources. Once again I said it here and I take this opportunity that you gave me to say again: this would not have been possible without the extraordinary behavior of health professionals. In all areas, there are people with better performance and with worse performance, we are not all the same as professionals. But there is no doubt that the National Health Service has been able to prove, thanks to the performance of its professionals, that it is possible, without any threat of dismantling the National Health Service and the social state, to provide better service with less means and with less resources. What will we be able to do, and to prove, in times of normality if in times of exception we can improve the National Health Service? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On the question of employment, it seems to be embarrassing the opposition a little. And I say to embarrass the opposition because it is always uncomfortable with this topic. As you said, and very well, we are getting closer to very close unemployment values of those who were registered at the time when the financial bailout was requested and when this process of economic transformation began.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u127	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u128	It is true — we do not forget it! — Portugal, like other countries, during times of difficulty, has intensified its migratory phenomena. We know that. We know that in Spain it was even stronger than in Portugal and the same in Ireland. But despite these phenomena, we have come, in accordance with the same measurement rules that all other countries use, to compare data from one country to another, and if we used different rules we could not compare. So we can say that in Spain it is so much, in Ireland it is so much and in Portugal it is so much. So we can compare, we're talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u130	Now, we're talking about the same thing and Spain has 24% unemployment and we have 13%. Spain did not go through a period of financial bailout like us, had it only in the banks, and yet it had an even heavier reality than ours, which leaves me nothing satisfied. I would much more than that had not happened in Spain, all the more so that there were many Portuguese working in Spain who had to return to Portugal, not because they had lost their job here, but because they lost it in Spain, and they count for our statistics here. [[Exactly! All right!]] [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u131	We know that we have a high unemployment rate — 13 % is a very high rate! With the adjustment of more than a tenth or less a tenth, we already know that these numbers are always subject to review and monthly forecast, but the trend that has occurred since the beginning of 2013 is continuous, we have been lowering the unemployment rate. These are the bad results of the Socialist Party: unemployment to be reduced, the economy to grow, and investment to grow, as, moreover, it had not grown practically since 1999. These are the bad results that the Socialist Party points to. Mr President, I am quite aware of these bad results. I hope that the projections made by the OECD for this year — the forecast of the growth of the economy and the forecast of having a deficit of less than 3% — will help our people to convince themselves that international bodies are getting closer to those which have been the government's forecasts and not the other way around, which must, in some way, give the government some credibility in the projections he has made several months ago. My conviction is that we will comply with the rules and with what is planned. But, Mr, this does not happen by chance, because we have been determined in our strategy. If you will allow me, I would just like to say that our history ends well because we have these results and because we know that we have active employment policies that work in the short and medium term, even when the State makes a direct contribution, the central administration or local authorities - and we do not distinguish them, because we know that there are many socialist authorities who also have employment-inclusion contracts and that they need them, those who need these contracts are needed and those employment policies that need to act on the shorter deadline.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u132	The state won't let you hire!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u133	I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: We think it is normal for a government that is in office to exercise its constitutional powers. It is not because there are elections that the government no longer governs. I understand that the Socialist Party, which wanted early elections, has been calling for years on end, wishing the government not to govern. But, Mr Nuno Magalhães, fortunately, the Government has always looked at its responsibilities and its constitutional competences and exercised them, and I believe that the country breathes relief because we have exercised our competences without refugee in terms of excuse, such as the lack of support from the opposition. But the Portuguese and we do not forget this lack of support. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u134	Now I give the word to the Left Block. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have already said here in the debate that what the Government has included in its programme for the future, and even in the stability plan that has been approved by the votes of the PSD and the CDS, here in Parliament, is a measure for the sustainability of social security with an impact of EUR 600 million. I think I am correctly quoting the document and Mr. Prime Minister. We have heard Mr Luís Montenegro here calling for a debate so that the changes can be substantiated and thought, and that is the basis and thought we are in need of, Prime Minister. It was not the opposition that put the pension cuts at the heart of the political debate, it was the Minister of Finance who decided to shake the fear of the sustainability of social security and place the pensions cuts at the heart of the political debate. So we have a problem here: it is that much fear stirs up, but no foundation has yet appeared. We don't know why. We may have various positions, we may have various palpitations about social security, but the last study that was done said that social security would have positive balances by 2030 and then the capitalisation fund. in the 11 consecutive years before this government, social security has always had positive balances. The troika here has been discussing the country's accounts, along with the Prime Minister, who has participated, and has put nothing on the sustainability of social security in the Troika Memorandum, and now the government says that there is a very great danger and it is necessary to cut into pensions. Mr Prime Minister, where are the studies on social security sustainability and the projections you have made in the medium and long term to support the proposals that change social security? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u136	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u137	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe that the honourable Member will not be fully informed, because, as far as the Memorandum of Understanding is concerned, I should remind you that in its initial formulation - we are not talking about the revisions that have been made over time - a cut of paid pensions that should replicate the cut that was already being practised to the salaries of public servants for pensioners who received pensions above € 1500. It's measure 1.11 of the initial memorandum. That is why all this rhetoric of the Socialist Party, very outraged with cuts in paid pensions, does not glue, because the Socialist Party has traded a cut in pensions above 1500 € between 3, 5 % and 10 %. I was in the Memorandum. Mr Rodrigues will easily consult the Memorandum — I repeat, point 1.11 of the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u138	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u139	It was put there by the socialist government, which negotiated the Memorandum, not by my government. It was there, in measure 1.11, the Court in the pensions paid up to 1500 €, replicating the pay cut of the public service. That's what you negotiated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u140	Where was that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u141	in point 1.11 of the Memorandum, Mr Deputy, go see. Do you have any doubts? Do you want me to distribute the Memorandum of Understanding? The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen know you're there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u142	And how much does that make? Oh, my God! What's the amount?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u143	Mrs Catarina Martins, there is an explanation for this court not being made in 2012. We have withdrawn this point from the Memorandum in the next negotiation, you know why, Mrs. Member? Because when we arrived to the government we noticed that the deficit that was promised for 2010 was not the 7, 5 % or 7, 6 % that were underlying the negotiation of the Memorandum was 11 %, and therefore, to achieve the same goal as the Socialist Party did for that year, there were much more measures needed than those that the Socialist Party had negotiated to achieve the Socialist Party's objective. So we proposed the suspension of 13. the month and 14. the month for civil servants and pensioners above a certain amount. It would make no sense, and the troika understood, subjecting pensioners to a double cut and therefore accepted that measure to be withdrawn. It was reintroduced later, when the suspension of 13. the e of the 14. the month was annulled by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, Mrs. Member, the story is known to those who want to know it. I believe that 'densification' is mine — the basis of the measure. Mrs Deputy, the grounds are these. contrary to what the honourable Member said, the social security system was defective before I arrived at the government. Since 2007 it has shown a tendency towards deficit which obliges the transfer of the State budget to social security, therefore the system is unbalanced and it is unequivocal that there is a problem of sustainability in public pensions. That is the basis, Mrs Deputy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u144	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u145	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the extent to which I was in the Troika Memorandum was to cut off pensioners to finance the State budget, i.e. had nothing to do with the sustainability of social security. It was about financing the State budget by withdrawing from pensions. Mr Prime Minister, at the beginning of this debate, you said that the problem of social security for the State budget had to be solved without financing social security. During this debate Mr Prime Minister has already changed his point of view. First, it was necessary to cut into pensions so that the State budget did not make transfers to social security; now, in the Memorandum, we cut pensions to transfer to the State budget, because that is the movement that is being made, i.e. to withdraw pensions to put into the State budget. When the Prime Minister changes his argument in the middle of the debate, it is seen that the truth is far from our conversations here, and that is worrying. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u146	But, Prime Minister, this is not a coffee talk and if Mr. Prime Minister wants to cut into social security he has to show the studies. I also think that perhaps we have a long-term problem in Portugal, because I know very well that the birth rate in the first three years of your Government has fallen more than in the last 10 years, but you now want to cut 600 million euros in pensions. Therefore, you have to show what studies and projections are. Or is he just making up? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u147	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u148	Madam President, you do not want to confuse the debate and the arguments. What I said was that there was a sustainability problem in the pension system. As it was in the Memorandum it was intended for the State budget for the simple reason that it is the State budget that complements this unsustainability, by transferring from the State budget, therefore, the taxes of the Portuguese, to social security. So do not confuse the debate because we know what we are talking about. I know that when the arguments are not of your liking, you and the ladies — in this case the ladies — want to speak louder than the arguments, but it is not because they speak louder than they are most right, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u149	Facts! Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u150	With regard to the question of birth, Mrs Deputy, this reminds me of that maximum which has been thrown at us on the suicide rate. The suicide rate had increased in Portugal as a result of the Memorandum and the crisis; now the suicide rate has fallen. What happened to the crisis, Your Honor? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u151	I give Mrs Catarina Martins the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u152	Madam President, Prime Minister, you are running away from the question in an absolutely desperate way. Even suicide has already been mentioned, something that I do not remember speaking in this plenary— nor would it be good-to-do, I must tell you. Mr Prime Minister, do not confuse unemployment benefit with pensions. We know that the unemployment that this government has created has caused a serious problem in unemployment subsidies. In fact, this government has to solve the paradox of raising the unemployment rate at 2011 levels, when the employment rate is below the 2011 levels, and how people do not organize their lives with fees, organize with jobs, and today there are fewer jobs, it is true that we have a serious problem. But that is not what I asked you about, I asked you about the sustainability of the social security contribution system, that is, of the people who make their contribution to the pensions and pensions that are paid. I repeat again: what studies or projections does the government have to dislodge everything that has been said, from the European Commission to the OECD, and from previous studies on the sustainability of social security? This is because, without this data, everything you've said about pensions is worth zero. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u153	Once again, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u154	Madam President, Mrs Deputy, first of all, I would like to say that the accusation made to the Government on the suicide rate has been made and has been made in Parliament. But the honourable Member mentioned here the question of the birth rate and now at the rate of unemployment and employment. I do not care to talk about all the fees, Madam Member, but I remind you that the problem of pension sustainability is well-patented in the report of the Court of Auditors itself. It is the Constitutional Court that, in its judgments, recognizes that there is a problem of pension sustainability and is the Court of Auditors that states that there is a problem of pension sustainability. The studies on this matter are abundant, Mrs Deputies, and it is not worth spending time on more studies, what is needed is whether there is a will to solve the problem. We have had a very important contribution to resolving the problem in the long term, by seeking to converge pension systems. And there is no doubt that, in the pensions in training, the system is converging, but not so in the past and not so in our present, and that is why the system is unbalanced — of course, even more unbalanced because of the unemployment rate, but the unemployment rate, such as the employment rate, is recovering. It is true that the employment rate has not yet recovered as much as the unemployment rate, but is recovering, which you could also report. The employment rate has evolved favourably, we are not as close to the one we inherited in 2011 but we are not as far as the honourable Member would like to suggest. Therefore, as our economy obviously recovers that employment, through contributions, will help to sustain social security. But it is not enough, and it is not enough, Mrs Deputies, for one reason that we know: there is a imbalance in the pensions that are paid today due to the way in which the pensions themselves were calculated and that is what is intended to be corrected from the beginning. But, Madam Member, the matter is not difficult for me, contrary to what you suggest. What the government has done was to identify the problem, to say that the State budget will have to deal with this problem in the future too, because otherwise we would never comply with what are the rules of the Constitutional Court. Of course we know that the Budget has to help solve the problem and that means that it is all Portuguese that pay, because the Budget is from the State, it is from the Portuguese. The design of this measure will be presented in the result of a widest possible debate, since we have the problem identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u155	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u156	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that there is no lack of clarity either on the basis or on the identification of the problem, nor even on the Government's will to resolve it. We have already put forward a number of measures that could have helped to solve this problem, but we are available to accept other measures. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u157	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u158	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, you have been able to speak eight minutes and have never answered the simple question I asked you about what studies or projections the government is based on to say that there is a problem of social security sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u160	It's all mixed up! He mixed family allowance, RSI (social income of insertion), CSI (single supplement for the elderly), unemployment benefit—all! — with pensions and was unable to answer a simple question: in which study is the government based to say that there is a problem of pension sustainability? And the idea remains that it does not answer — you know why, Prime Minister? — because you do not have this study, and that is serious. Mr. Prime Minister is calling into question an intergenerational system, a long-term system, a system that affects more than 2, 5 million pensioners, but also more than 5 million pensioners still in active age and the children who will come to work because this is an intergenerational system. And you question all this, with laxism! He doesn't have any studies! You don't know! We are going to cut pensions because yes, because pensioners are our « honey porquinho» and, when there is a hole in the State Budget, we are going to look for some more. Mr. Prime Minister, eight minutes to speak and did not answer the only question I asked you: what studies is the government based on?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u162	The government very much likes to talk about trajectories, of which it will have to be, very little like the confrontation with reality or the confrontation with the necessary foundation and studies for what it proposes. Mr. Prime Minister spent a lot of time, and I am sure with the same tolerance that Mr. Prime Minister has had, you have to forgive me, I want to bring here a second subject that I do not know whether or not you can answer me in response time to another parliamentary group, but I will finally leave it in the same way. I am referring to the way the government has done to benefit from private interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u163	What interests?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u164	It is because when we see fear of pensions, the government is trying to favour private reform systems, harming social security — and we know how the private reform systems were badly after the financial crisis, because they were all with the 'rain' and now the fear discourse is only for people not to rely on social security and to help a financial system with dangerous, repeat, dangerous pension funds, Mr. Prime Minister — we also see how it is creating new dangers for the future in other sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u165	Aim for the interests!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u166	And there is a question, Mr Prime Minister, which I have to ask you, which is about the concessions of public transport in Porto and Lisbon and exactly what they are for. The first question I would have asked you, and I hope you will answer, is this: what is the Lisbon Transport? It is that the Lisbon Transport is preparing to transfer EUR 130 million per year to private and does not have a single constituent act. This, for an untransparent negotiation, you must forgive me, Prime Minister, it is not wrong! We would like to see where the constitutive act of something called Transportes de Lisboa, which does not exist and already does so much business. But, Prime Minister, what you are preparing for the collective transport of port and Lisbon is a gigantic public-private partnership(PPI), following the worst examples of the past's PPPs. It is a PPP in which there are guaranteed profits to the private, because they will receive by the availability of the service: go or not people on the bus, get! Whether you walk or not on the Metro, you always get it! The state makes the investment, the state gets the risk...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u167	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u168	...and there is a guaranteed maximum income for the private to whom they want to deliver the collective transport. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a business...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u169	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u170	In conclusion, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a business that can't go forward. The privatisations that this Government is attempting, at the end of its term of office, from TAP to collective transport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u171	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u172	...are a bad deal for the country and, Mr. Prime Minister, so this story will even end very badly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u173	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u174	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there has been much talk here in this debate about the need to remember, to remember, and I, today, would also like to remember something: when Mr Prime Minister told the Portuguese that there was no need to increase taxes and there was no need to cut wages, he already knew the contents of the troika programme. And this is a matter that it is important to affirm and remember. But there is also a need to warn. Why? We are getting closer to elections and the government is beginning to delude, essentially, with regard to the results achieved and even to the course taken. See, Prime Minister, that Mr. Prime Minister sees the debt to be reduced when it increases; emigration has not increased — it guarantees the government! — but the Portuguese will certainly deny it; the net job creation has been a constant throughout the entire mandate; social inequalities have not increased, but the Prime Minister has achieved more than 2 million poor people and, still, there has been no increase in this matter; the National Health Service has never worked so well, even with less resources – Mr. Prime Minister says — but the Portuguese have in mind the emergencies to be bottled up and the ambulances to not work. And now, Mr. Prime Minister, there is still another side, which is to hide information that does not care to give, because it may lose votes. Well, on the subject of social security and the pension system, I would like to put the question to you in another way and ask you this: under the cover of the sustainability of social security, does the Prime Minister put the possibility of cutting pensions?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u175	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u176	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I will answer your questions, of course, but, before that, I want to have an opportunity to remember that today is the World Environment Day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u177	I haven't finished my speech yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u178	And since it is World Environment Day and Mrs Deputies is from the Greens Ecological Party, I would like to remind you of two things which, in spite of everything, seem important to me: first of all, Portugal was considered 4. the best country in the world, in climate change policy, in what is known as the Climate Index ;... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ...we're also in 10. the place, in the World Economic Forum Index, with regard to the performance of 125 countries regarding the competitiveness, accessibility and sustainability of the energy sector. I think this should fill us with pride on World Environment Day. But I would also like to congratulate the honourable Member because the Greens Ecological Party has tabled a resolution in the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2016 to be considered as the year of combatting food waste, and this resolution has been adopted unanimously. I would therefore like to congratulate the honourable Member on this important initiative and remind her, especially on the World Environment Day, which I think is very relevant. As for what the honourable Member mentioned, the performance of the National Health Service is the subject of appreciation by an independent entity, and today I quoted the OECD. We did not say that there were no problems in the National Health Service, but it is even an external observer who comes to say that the National Health Service has proved its resilience well and has improved its quality, despite the circumstances. The inequalities have not worsened because of the economic situation — today I know! — which was a big challenge, because it means that we had to protect the most vulnerable much so that a crisis of the size of our crossing would not have caused an increase in inequalities. But I have said several times here in this Parliament that these inequalities are very strong and, long before we had a financial bailout, Portugal was one of the two most unequal countries in Europe. Long before 2011, Mrs. Member! Therefore, this is an important challenge for the future. The net job creation, Mrs Deputy, has been a reality and therefore we are not talking about fiction, we are talking about data that are observable and that are provided by independent entities. That is how developed States work. But the honourable Member has asked me a question, the honourable Member wants me to say that we are going to cut pensions. Mrs Deputies, the whole opposition felt that, as the Government has put in its stability programme that it is necessary to strengthen the sustainability of social security and to draw a measure that has a positive impact on the 600 million system, this is now a sort of "Daddy" that has to be thrown on top of all pensioners. It is not, Madam Member, it is no « papa»! We have a social security sustainability problem and we're going to have to solve it. And when I say "we're going to have to solve it is the country! The country is the Portuguese, not the Government, it is the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u179	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u180	However, since this problem of sustainability exists, or it is financed by everyone's taxes, through transfers from the State budget — I do not know if it is their solution, if that is what the honourable Member proposes, but I would like to know what she proposes —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u181	Don't! Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u182	I'm telling you, Your Honor! As I was saying, since this problem of sustainability exists, or it is financed by everyone's taxes, through transfers from the State budget, or should be allocated entirely to pensioners themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u183	Integrally! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u184	And this solution is out of the question, Mrs Deputies, because it is out of the question, because, as I see it, a solution that the Government has submitted, which could not represent a little more than half of these 600 million, has not been accepted by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, this can never be, Madam Member, because we will always respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But it is not indifferent to know how the problem is solved and therefore Mrs Deputy, since we have already twice presented solutions that have not been validated by the Constitutional Court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u185	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u186	... we said we would build a solution as consensual as possible. What it seems, however, is that everyone does one of the two things, when they do not support this government, and I conclude, Mr President : either put their heads on the sand and realize that the problem does not exist and therefore the Constitutional Court must not be called upon to pronounce itself on anything, because the Portuguese will pay taxes to solve the problem of pension sustainability — this is the position of one side of the opposition — or it says, and this is the position of another side of the opposition, 'No, no, no! Change the government! They change the government because only with a new government and lowering social security contributions will create so much employment that the problem will be solved." This is the solution of the Socialist Party economists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u187	Leia!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u188	...and the Socialist Party thinks the Portuguese believe in this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u189	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u190	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I think the Portuguese have had good information today: that Mr Prime Minister actually puts on the table the possibility of cutting pensions, he says that not entirely, as a solution, but it is the hypothesis that Mr Prime Minister puts on the table. I think this is a fact that should be taken into account by the Portuguese. If Mr. Prime Minister wants to talk about sustainability of social security, promote serious policies to combat unemployment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u191	He's coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u192	...do not place young people as an endangered species of this country and will contribute much to the sustainability of social security. But no, what the government does is exactly the opposite! I have found it thanks to the Prime Minister for bringing his prepared response to environmental issues which, perhaps, the Greens were putting to him today, which is the World Environment Day. I am only sorry that Mr. Prime Minister only talks about the environment on World Environment Day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u194	But I want to tell you that for others, especially for the Greens, World Environment Day...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u195	They're all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u196	...are every day of the year and every year of the decade. It's true! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u197	They're all, except World Environment Day!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u198	We therefore put forward as many proposals as the one that Mr. Prime Minister came here today as he exemplified. And I also stress this proposal which the Greens have presented, with great beneficial environmental impacts, in this case, and which has been unanimously approved. But I want to tell you, Mr Prime Minister, that your government has made big mistakes in environmental matters and I will mention some of them, perhaps Mr Prime Minister will think about how you can solve them. This mania to cut into public service led to fundamental surveillance, in terms of protected areas and maritime safety, being cut, Prime Minister, being weakened. Take a good look at the impact of your decisions! The depopulation of the rural world to which you have contributed, in particular with the closure of public services within the country, by promoting the potential for sustainable development of these regions and promoting greater urbanization of the country, has grave environmental impacts, in addition to impacts associated with the social level. You have liberalized the eucalyptus; you have the possibility of prohibiting GMOs ( genetically modified organisms) in Portugal in your hand but prefer to give in to the great interests of multinationals in the sector;... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u199	... you privatize the EGF ( General Development Company, SA ) ; you want, however, to say no, to privatize the water. These are gross errors from an environmental point of view, Prime Minister! in this environmental area you cannot paint green, you can't call 'green' documents, you must seriously do so that sustainability is effective in our country. Environment is not conversation, it's action! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the 15-year debate. I congratulate Mr. Prime Minister, wishing good work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue our work with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the services to activate the electronic system so that we can verify the quorum of deliberation. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to announce the entry of another legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and the President has admitted draft resolution No 1510 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the intensification and continuation of the recovery and recovery of the National Buçaco Forest and its heritage with a view to its future recognition as a World Heritage Site of UNESCO ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which dropped to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u202	We will then proceed to the quorum check. I'm asking the ladies. Members in favour of registering and the services in favour of confirming the number of presences. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence record, so that it will be considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 203 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Mr Paulo Campos, PS, and Mr Nuno Matias, PSD, performing 205 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin by voting, in general, Bill No. 841 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards external audit entities ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The general vote on Bill No 842 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Strengthens Banco de Portugal's competence for auditing and internal control of credit institutions ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 843 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Bans payments to entities based in non-cooperating offshores ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on Bill No 844 / XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Strengthen the powers of the Banco de Portugal in weighing the suitability for the performance of functions in credit institutions ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 845 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ban banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 846 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the last beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We are now voting, in general, on draft law No 847 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — prohibits the holding of qualifying holdings by non-financial charities or non-financial conglomerates ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] I now give the floor to Mr Miguel Tiago, who has signalled his request to the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u203	Madam President, just to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 960 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change the Securities Code, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 334 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Scheme for Auditing by transposing Directive 2014 / 56 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2006 / 43 / EC on the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts, and ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) No 537 / 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements for the legal review of public interest entities. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u207	Madam President, in order to announce that, with regard to this vote, I will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u208	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote on Bill No 962 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( 36 ). the amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1487 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the recomposition and immobilization of assets held by the Espírito Santo Group, the Banco Espírito Santo and the members of the GES Superior Council ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1488 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the public control of credit institutions and financial corporations with relevance to Portuguese economic policy and financial system, considering the segregation of financial and non-financial components in mixed groups ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The vote was followed, in general draft law No 963 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies and the legal framework of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, providing for specific measures to strengthen the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1489 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of challenges with a view to strengthening the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ). The Bureau shall indicate that the CFP has requested the separate vote of paragraph 2 of this diploma. Let us therefore proceed to the separate vote of paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We shall now vote on the remaining numbers of this draft resolution. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 964 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the access and exercise of the activity of evaluators of real estate providing services to entities of the national financial system ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1490 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of restrictive measures in the marketing of risk financial products by credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The CFP requested that paragraph 1 of the draft resolution be voted on separately. Mrs. Members, let us then vote on paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the remaining numbers of this draft resolution. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u209	Madam President, I would like to inform the Bureau that, on behalf of the Left Block, I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1491 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make efforts in the supranational sphere to make the financial system more transparent ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1492/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures that promote and ensure efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory entities — Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and the Insurance and Pension Fund Supervisory Authority ( ASF ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The Bureau noted a request from the CFP to break up paragraph 5 of this draft resolution. We shall then proceed to the vote on paragraph 5. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We are now voting on the remaining numbers of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens were adopted and BE abstained.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1493/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures leading to an increase in short-term financial literacy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1286 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u211	When the time of truth comes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u212	Mrs. Members, we now generally vote on Bill No 803 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFPs ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1484/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guiding principles for the revision of the European Neighbourhood Policy ( Committee on European Affairs ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] The vote was followed by motion for a resolution No 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to Review the Framework Agreement on Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Special Administrative Region of Macao, of the People's Republic of China, signed in Macao on 17 May 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 338 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Scheme of the Civil Protection Process. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We continue, in general, with the vote on Bill No 339 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] Low to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 340 / XII ( 4 ) is also followed. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code and approves the Legal Rules of the Adoption Process. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] Also down to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 975 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend Articles 1905. the Civil Code and 989. the Civil Procedure Code ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the CDS-PP PS abstentions.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1505 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government some measures to be taken in amending the Act regulating the Child and Youth Protection Committees as well as in amending the legal regulations contained in the Civil Code relating to the adoption and establishment of a Legal Scheme for the Adoption Process ( PS ). The PSD bench requested the breakdown of points 1, 2, 3 and 5, which we shall then vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of this motion for a resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Therefore, the final wording should take into account the meaning of this vote. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1363 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to protect and support apicola activity ( PCP ). Once again, the PSD has requested the breakdown of points 1, 2 and 13 which we shall then vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the remaining points of this draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Mr Jorge Fão, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u213	Madam President, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1005 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the tolls on the Via do Infante and the requalification of the National Route 125 and the Algarve Ferrea Line as priority investments (BE) The Socialist Party has requested the breakdown of point 1 of this draft resolution, which we shall immediately vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of the PCP, BE, The Greens and the Deputies of PS Augustinho Santa, André Figueiredo, Hortense Martins, Isabel Moreira, Ivo Oliveira, João Soares, Miguel Freitas and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We shall now vote on points 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1482/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — by abolishing the tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of the PCP, BE and The Greens, and abstentions from PS Deputies Augustinho Santa, Isabel Alves Moreira, Ivo Oliveira, João Soares, Miguel Freitas and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Mr. João Paulo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u215	Madam President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1263 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish the Satellite Tourism Account ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1446 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Implementation of the extension of the green line of the Port Metro, Maia to the Trofa, until the end of the first half of 2016 ( PCP ). The Socialist Party has called for the vote on point 1 separately, which we shall immediately vote on. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on point 2 of this motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u217	Madam President, it is to be announced that in relation to the vote on draft resolution No 1466/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) the PSD members of the Port district will submit a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u219	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Michael Seufert, do you also ask for the floor for the same?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u221	Madam President, it is to announce that, on behalf of Mr José Ribeiro and Mr Castro, Mr Cecilia Meireles, Mr Vera Rodrigues and on my own behalf, a statement of vote will be submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u222	Be registered. We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1459 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and complete resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u223	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u224	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u225	To inform the House that on the vote on this draft resolution that we have just voted on, the Members of the Social Democratic Party elected by the electoral circle of Porto will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-05.u226	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1182 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening of SNS responses in the area of mental health in Portugal ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 314 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the issue and transmission between Portugal and the other Member States of the European Union of decisions implementing protective measures by transposing Directive 2011 / 99 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Decision. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our votes and today's work are concluded. We will meet next Thursday, 11 a.m., 15 p.m., in the debate of the draft deliberation No 30 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The Assembly of the Republic reinforces its commitment to monitor, monitor and evaluate policies for the promotion of social cohesion, poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities ( PS ), with a grid of time itself and with a possible vote at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 29 minutes.]]
