ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u1	Mrs. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Ministers — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened, please. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of State institutional advertising campaigns and the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies, which fall to 12. the Commission ; motion for a resolution No 110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which was adopted in Seoul on 12 November 2012, which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 805 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Regulation or cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( CFP ), 806 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of Deputies and the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( PCP ), 807 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extends to entities pursuing cultural activities the possibility of allocating a share of income tax for natural persons ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 808 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of the holders of political positions and high public positions ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 809 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of active transparency throughout the Public Administration ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 810 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Regularization of immigrant and minor workers born in Portugal or attending the education system ( BE), 811 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents the cultivation, marketing and deliberate release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens) and 812 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social equity grants by the second amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), which is lower than 8. The draft resolutions Nos 1292 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Valuing the Formosa Ria and clarifying the legal status of the Culatra core ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1293 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government guidelines relating to the process of transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001 / 18 / EC as regards the possibility of Member States limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) in their territory ( PS ), 1294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures that minimize the social and economic impact of reducing the American presence at the Lajes Base ( PS ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1295 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( an integral part of the Cova da Beira Hospital Centre ( CHCB ) ) in the National Health Service ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1296 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of an emergency plan that minimizes the effects of the reduction of civilian personnel at the service of the U.S. military forces at the Lajes Base ( BE ) and 1297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of standardized regulatory standards for the criteria for fixing fees and emoluments charged by higher education institutions ( PS ), which falls to 8. He also entered an office of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group requesting the withdrawal of Bill No. 649 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of the holders of political positions and high public positions ( PS ), being replaced by Bill No 808 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of policy holders and high public positions ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the agenda which, as you all know, consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance. The debate falls within the framework of Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, meaning that first the Prime Minister will make an initial intervention, following the interventions of the parliamentary groups by the following order : PS, PCP, Left Block, The Greens, CDS-PP and PSD. I was asking the ladies. Members who have not yet taken the seats to do so, because there is noise in the Chamber, as happens whenever the debates begin. You have the floor to start the debate, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public debate of last week and a half was marked by the discussion around my contribution career. I have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to give proper explanations on this matter and also to answer questions from the parliamentary groups of the Members. Members, therefore, on this subject. But, of course, it is a matter to which, in fulfilling my institutional duties, I must also be available in Parliament to answer. As I have said on some occasions, in writing or in a loud voice, I have no situation to regulate, whether in tax matters or in tax matters. I have publicly acknowledged the shortcomings in the contribution matter, and I deeply regret not having been aware of these obligations. When I got to know them, I did not expect anyone to draw my attention to this, that is, when the issue was raised and I sought, together with social security, to know what the situation was contributing, the answer was that it was regularized. It was my insistence that I sought to assess whether or not they had grounds for news that I could have, so that it was not required by the State, any other debt or contributing failure. I publicly assume that I did not regulate this situation, I repeat, at the end of 2012, when I was aware of it, so as not to create any misconception as to the possibility of being subjected to a benefit, which is in fact no more than a right to the constitution of future rights. in this measure, since this doubt persisted and this misunderstanding became symmetrical, I did not stop regularizing, within my mandate, this situation, therefore not doing so later at higher costs. I would therefore like to say with great transparency and with great humility also that I have accepted, as accepted, the vote on the conditions for the exercise of mandates, insofar as those who hold public positions must always be available to clarify something important that may have an influence on their political credibility or on the conditions for the exercise of their mandate. I have therefore done so without any fear, and I have done so before the honourable Members. Members answering all the questions they have sent me. I would now like to reiterate that, having regularized all my situation, I should not, however, give explanations that I did not fall directly to me. And I hope you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members do not demand answers that are not in the citizen Pedro Passos Coelho or in Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho can give. But all those who fit me as a citizen or as Prime Minister will not fail to answer, as I have always answered. in the same way that he said that we should humbly acknowledge our failures and we must humbly submit to this special scrutiny, I also say that I will not, of course, accept that, the cover of this scrutiny and clarification, if you want to make a political manipulation of my contributing or fiscal situation which does not correspond to the truth. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, Madam President, the country, however, did not stop in the public debate around my contribution career, so I would like to say, even at the beginning of this 15-year debate, that other important issues have taken place since our last debate and that, I believe, it was important that Parliament should not stop discussing them. First of all, the agreement we have established with Spain and France to ensure, with the involvement of the European Commission, that the interconnections we need both at the level of electricity and at the level of gas between the Iberian Peninsula and Europe would take place in accordance with what had already been agreed at the European Council by 2020. It is important to recognize that for the first time, despite the monitoring and involvement of the European Commission, it was strictly due to the initiative of these three countries and of the three governments that we have achieved a historically relevant advance that will enable us to achieve the target that had been set in Barcelona in 2002. I recall that in previous debates here in Parliament, there had already been doubts whether, at some point, the commitment that had been reiterated at the December European Council would be to meet, as the previous ones had not been fulfilled. at that time, I reiterate that this time there was, firstly, an express mandate that the European Commission had accepted on this matter and secondly that we had a valid commitment to identify these projects and to put them into effect by 2020. After the report submitted by the European Commission, we learned that, with the level of projects already identified, we will be in a position by 2020 to reach 8 % in interconnections, which means that there is still a lack of identification of projects complementing the 2 % missing by 2020. We will certainly have the opportunity in the next debate to be able to return to this issue, although it seems to me that the important thing in the European Council that will take place next week is the conditions that determine the construction of a real internal energy market, which is obviously not exhausted on this issue of ending the energy isolation of the Iberian Peninsula. But this aspect, which could have deserved a more diligent action in the past, was possible to achieve, I would also like to say here, given the commitment that both the Spanish Prime Minister and the French President have personally put in the resolution of a commitment that would involve governments and states. Therefore, we know that the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) is available to finance these types of projects, we know that the Commission has an obligation to present an initiative in this area, which is the guarantee that these interconnections will take place, but we also have, most importantly, the commitment of the three States to put an end to this energy isolation which has been going on for too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u6	Secondly, I would like to highlight the decline that has been observed at our unemployment rate. And I would like to stress here, once again, because this is certainly one of the most sensitive issues that continues to mark the history of macroeconomic imbalance which has been accumulated in the Portuguese economy over many years. In the euro area, we were able to be the third country with a more pronounced fall in the unemployment rate. And when we compare with the beginning of the crisis in 2011, then we can conclude that about less than 230 000 unemployed exist today compared to 2011. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Our imbalance, however, continues to be high and the fact that we have reached, in the last month of official data, an unemployment rate of 13, 3 % means that we still have too much unemployment, especially - I insist, because I have already said so - when we look at long-term unemployment and young unemployment. But it is important to point out that the result that we are recognizing every year, every month, over all time, since the beginning of 2013 shows that we have not only consistently come down the unemployment rate, such as the employment rate and the number of jobs created in the country has been consistently increasing. That is certainly a reason for hope for the work ahead of us to do. I would like to conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that we have recently launched — and we will conclude by the end of this month — important competitions within the framework of Portugal 2020. Portugal has not only integrated a very small group of countries that have been able to close its partnership agreement and subsequently present the operational programmes approved in Brussels, as it is one of the countries leading the implementation of the new Portugal 2020 framework. We have no doubt that this is essential not only to allow support for this structural change in the Portuguese economy, which has been observed, but above all to ensure that, contrary to previous years, we will ensure a degree of implementation of this Portugal 2020 above the European average and at the level of what the country needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u8	Mr President, we do know that until the mid-term review of the European budget we benefit from exceptional conditions in terms of co-financing. A high degree of implementation of Portugal 2020 is the one that benefits from these exceptional conditions which have been recognised in European terms just because Portugal has made the effort and has left its financial adjustment programme. For this reason, we have an obligation to take advantage of all the good conditions that they have offered us for the implementation of this programme. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u9	Before giving the floor to the first parliamentary group, I remember that there is a second item on the agenda, which is the preparatory debate of the next European Council, also with the participation of the Prime Minister. As I did not mention this at the beginning of the sitting, I am now doing so for the purpose of information to the public. To put questions, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at the end of his speech he referred to the unemployment rate and its reduction. This is indeed one of the reasons why we are under the supervision of the European Union. We are under surveillance not only because of public debt but also because of the unemployment rate. So your rockets can be excessive. However, there will be room for this in the debate on European issues. When Mr Prime Minister says that today there are less than 230 000 unemployed, what is true is that there were some 400 000 Portuguese who had to emigrate, especially young people, who would be unemployed if they were to stay here. Now, I'm going to enter directly into the first part of your intervention. I think that the Prime Minister did well to have dealt with the subject of his past as a contributor to social security, but it was wrong not to take this time to apologize to Portugal, its voters and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this is a political issue, it is not a personal case. If Mr. Prime Minister analyses my career and positions in the Socialist Party at least with the normal distance, he will verify that I have always been against the exploitation of judicial cases, political and partisan cases and against personal attacks. [[PSD protests.]] I don't know if there's a lot of Super Dragons or anything else here for me to be green! Is that what you're talking about? Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] I just wanted to say that this is a political case, because Mr. Prime Minister... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Ferro Rodrigues continue. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u12	Mr Prime Minister, there are five reasons why this is not a personal case, but a political issue, and I will tell you what they are. First of all, you knew in 2012 — he was already Prime Minister — that he had debts to social security. He took knowledge in 2012 and paid, I don't know if all and that's not even what's moving me right now. Information was provided, many questions were asked about this, which were not fully answered. What surprises me, frankly, is how a Prime Minister knows, in 2012, so one year after being in the government, who has debts and does not immediately try to regularize the situation. We had to reach 2015 and there was a journalist's insistence to regulate the situation. That is why this is a political issue, because it hits him as Prime Minister and not when he was an independent worker, before he was Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the varied and contradictory justifications which Mr Prime Minister has given. I will not force them to read all those justifications. In short, he said, on 28 February, that he did not know the existence of possible non-compliances. Then, on March 2, he said he was convinced that the social security discounts were optional. On March 3, I said that as soon as they call you to something correct immediately, but it is verified that it was not exactly what happened. And in an interview with the Sun he speaks in distraction and lack of money, which is something that reaches many Portuguese, but Portuguese generally cannot use it as justification. This is the second political reason, i.e. the total confusion in its explanations. Third reason: your friends, your supporters. With friends of these, I'd say you don't have to have opponents. When Minister Mota Soares came to say that it was the fault of the social security services and that there were many people in the same circumstances, he himself, the Minister, threw a negative barrel over his own services, which is regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u13	What about the High Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u14	When Mr President of the Republic came to say that a President of good sense leaves to the parties his political and party disputes that have already been fuelled by the pre-election campaign, I say that, indeed, the President of the Republic, who was the person, after 25 April, who had more election campaigns, pre-election campaigns and who had engaged in political and party disputes, wanting to help him, only helped him, Prime Minister. With friends of these, it doesn't go too far. Fourth reason: morality. As Joaquim Vieira said, Mr. Prime Minister is no longer the Pedro Passos Coelho of rigor, of inflexible principles, of discipline without exception, of the execution of a programme cost anything, of overcoming the troika,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... of the imperious impoverishment of the population, of the abandonment of the comfort zone, of the fiscal requirement, of the coercive collection of taxes, of the increase of fines to prevaricators, of the persecution to the unemployed and the distracted. Mr. Prime Minister, at the PSD congress in 2014, when he already knew he had this problem, said : « We have an obligation to correct these injustices », this against those who did not declare their activities. There is nothing more social-democratic than this. Mr. Prime Minister also said: « If there are those who are out of their obligations towards society, having little or much, that person is being an important burden for all others who have a greater burden». What now says Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho to PSD President Pedro Passos Coelho? That's a question I ask. Fifth reason: in addition to moralism, there is still a problem, which was what happened in 2013 and 2014. These are the years when you knew that you had such problems and did not regulate them and are the years when the product dropped, in which less than 45 000 people had access to family allowance, in which less than 70 000 people had access to social income of insertion, in which less than 57 000 people had access to the solidarity complement for the elderly and are the years in which the State was able to extract more than 3778 million euros from the Portuguese population. Are you all right with this, Prime Minister? The country has impoverished, the Portuguese are poorer and you are poorer—because you believe, and I respect those who believe, but it is wrong—is the first responsible for this impoverishment. What do you have to tell the Portuguese about this period of 2013 and 2014 when you were aware of the debts and did not regulate them? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u15	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u16	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues... [[At the moment, demonstrations of public protest were recorded in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u17	The people who are speaking in the galleries have to leave. I was asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority would like to withdraw the people who are manifesting themselves in the galleries. [[Pause.]] Please leave and respect Parliament. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ferro Rodrigues, we will then discuss the issue of the continuing macroeconomic imbalances in our country and the fact that Portugal, like other countries, is under surveillance. But, Mr President, let me tell you, in advance, that I have never thrown rockets on this subject, because I have never hidden that we have, if you will, forgive me, a heavy backpack to carry in the coming years. We know that, sir, we never forgot it! What can be discussed is whether it prevents us from making progress, and I have always said that we have conditions for progress. That is why, Mr President, I am taking advantage of your last question about the impoverished country. Mr President, we know that in recent years Portuguese GDP has contracted, during the crisis, about 5%, perhaps a little less, but, Mr President, in the countries under adjustment, Portugal has contracted less — I hope you will not ignore it. Secondly, in 2014, the second year that Mr. Deputy appointed, the country had economic growth...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u19	Greece has grown more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u20	...and therefore GDP has not decreased, the country has not impoverished, on the contrary, GDP has increased. Therefore, it is not true that we had become impoverished in 2014, precisely because, although we did not have a very relevant growth rate, the growth rate was relevant enough not to be confused with the recession that the country experienced during the crisis, and therefore to confirm the reversal of the trend in economic growth, which began to be observed soon from the beginning of 2013, but which only in 2014 reached positive ground, of convergence up to the European Union. Then, on issues related to my contribution career, he listed a number of facts and hypotheses. As far as the hypotheses about friends are concerned, I am not going to comment — do not hurt, Mr President — because I do not honestly believe that any of the people you mentioned were doing good or bad work on this quality. Any of them certainly spoke according to the one who was your conscience or vision of the problem and therefore, Mr President, will not draw me to any comment on the behaviour of the President of the Republic in this matter, surely, and I do not see in which the answer of Mr Mota Soares is or may be incompatible with his place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u21	But it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u22	But let me say that there are no contradictions where you tried to identify them. First of all, the fact that I have said that I always understood that I had no subject matter to regulate on tax matters, for not knowing this obligation, is in no way incompatible with the fact that I said that I thought it was optional, on the contrary, it is consistent, Mr Deputy, because, if it were not optional, it would obviously have a breach and awareness of it. It seems to me that this is notorious, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u23	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u24	Secondly, he said that I also disagreed with the reasons for this failure, saying that he had alleged a lack of money or distraction in fulfilling my contribution obligations. That is not the case, Mr President, let me tell you that this is not the case, they are totally different contexts. One thing is the taxpayer's obligations, another the tax failures, and I answered both, Mr. Deputies: one, because I was put directly by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, another, because I was appointed by a media agency. They're different things, sir. But I take advantage to say, in any case, that I have always regulated any failure I had. I have always regulated any fault that I had and I have always done without any particular benefit or status, i.e. I have done it, as any citizen could have done. He asked the honourable Member: « Well, then why did it not resolve the matter in November 2012? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, I believe that I have already answered this question, but I insist that, first of all, I wanted to know whether or not there was a problem and, secondly, that any payment at a later time only charges the interest I have to pay. But this natural obligation does not prescribe, Mr President, the legal can prescribe, the natural does not prescribe. The fact that I have said that I did not want to generate misconceptions about benefits that could be pointed out to me personally, since I was Prime Minister, is the result of the discussion that proved this risk. Why, sir? Because that obligation, at that time, was not required. I would not fail to regularize, in any case, but would not want to do so in order to leave any doubt as to whether the fact of doing as Prime Minister would be or would not attributing a benefit to me,... [[PS protests.]] ... since, as you know, the contribution is not just a duty, it is also a right. And it was these taxpayers' rights that could be under scrutiny, Mr Deputies, as we were awaiting the Constitutional Court's examination of matters involving the convergence of pensions, requiring the entire contribution career. This is understood by misconceptions that could be generated by this situation. [[PS protests.]] But I did not stop saying that, despite this legal requirement, in order not to persist in doubting the regularity of my contributions, I understood that I should pay them, and I did. And, Mr President, I do not believe that, from this point of view, I have used any special moralism when I realized it; on the contrary, the statements I made as the leader of the PSD remain entirely, which means that our obligation is always to have our full declarations and our exercise of regularization done. I've never stopped doing anything, Mr. Member, don't hurt me, I'm not the one who stopped telling the tax officer what I had or stopped paying for what I should. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if I deeply regret that mistakes may have existed in the past, I can assure the honourable Member, as a guarantee to the whole country, that these failures have been regularized and that I have never ceased to bear the natural consequences of any delay under the law. I do not believe, Mr President, that I have remained in the lot of those who have left to regulate their situations or who have not declared all their obligations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u25	The PS still has time, so Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u26	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, no one brought here the tax failures, it was Mr Prime Minister who wanted to bring here the tax failures. But speaking of social security, which is a matter that dominates more, what is true is that, at that time when Mr. Prime Minister had that set of arguments, there were 700 000 Portuguese, the green receipts, which paid their contribution to social security,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... I repeat, 700 000 Portuguese, and they had neither been Members nor had exceptional information about the social security contribution schemes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u27	They were 700,000 Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u28	Now, after this, only Mr. Prime Minister is missing to understand that social security still owes him something. For God's sake, Prime Minister! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in 2013 there was an increase in compulsory charges of 21, 5 % compared to 2012, i.e. EUR 708 million ; in 2014 the number of penhoras was 374 000, at a value of 433, 5 million per month. I and several PS Members proposed interim and exceptional measures to alleviate the hardships, especially when they were on their own houses, whose value was not more than €200,000, and there was someone unemployed. What did you do twice, one of which already at the time you knew you had this problem with social security? Oh, my God! They voted against, in the State budget, and voted against, here, 15 days ago. Do you think that's good, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, I would just like to ask you what Mr. Prime Minister understands about the intimidation environment that many tax, tax and customs officials told me about, provided that, in training for 300 inspectors, it was announced, by an audit service manager, that there was a sort of VIP stock exchange and anyone who was involved in the names of this VIP stock exchange had a penalty. Is that true or is it a lie? Is there this VIP bag or not? With what criteria are some VIPs and others not? Are there currently disciplinary processes or not, and for what reasons, Prime Minister? You have to answer us, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u29	Mr. Prime Minister still has some time, not much, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u30	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, first of all, on the question of 700 000 workers fulfilling their obligations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u31	Green receipts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u32	... as independent workers, let me tell you that I already recognized that I had no knowledge of this obligation. I said it. Mr President, you may want to hear something else, but I, of course, can only answer you with the truth. But I can tell you, on the contrary, that, if you were aware that this failure existed, I was certainly not expecting to be Prime Minister so that she could be pointed out to me. This seems to me to be a meridian conclusion, Mr President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now he says: « But there were many who had this conscience and who paid». Mr. Member, but there were also many others who did not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u33	They emigrated!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u34	What matters, from my point of view, is not that, is your moral argument on the contrary. The honourable Member says: "How did you vote against a proposal from the Socialist Party that introduced exceptions to coercive charges for missing citizens? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u35	In the penhoras!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u36	Yes, as far as penhoras are concerned. My comment is just one: does the honourable Member really argue that the state should strictly charge what is missing? Oh, my God! I assume that you agree with this... if you agree with this principle, since you have also served as a minister with responsibility in this area, if you agree that the State should not allow such situations to be prescribed, which should be communicated to you and, when you communicate them, you must make coercive collection, we both agree. And I want to say, Mr, that in this case it does not include my contribution, because I was not notified by the social security of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u37	Not the 700 000 either!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u38	Finally, he said that there were disciplinary procedures established within the tax administration and a sort of VIP stock exchange of citizens whose proceedings could not be consulted. I want to tell the honourable Member that it is already public that the tax administration has denied this news,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u39	And Mr. Prime Minister is lying?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u40	...they were denied, which means there's no purse, I repeat, there's no purse. This is the information provided by the Tax Authority. As for the existence of disciplinary proceedings, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I know what I have already explained in Parliament. As far as I am concerned, I have never acted, asking the Tax Authority to establish any disciplinary procedure or, even, to investigate and I must say that, whenever public news on this matter appeared, it was there that I was aware that eventually there were people, professionals of the tax administration, who consulted my process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u41	Yours alone? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u42	And I also learned that it wasn't just my case, it was the case of many others. The terms in which the Tax Authority seeks to ascertain internally how each official acts are subject to the Tax Authority, but I can tell Mr once again that there is no doubt that it has been denied by the Tax Authority...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u43	And Mr. Prime Minister is lying?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u44	...that any VIP bag existed. Hello, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u45	Mr. Prime Minister is lying?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u46	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u47	Madam President, I am sorry, but it was very important, because I wasn't listening to the honourable Member. Sir, it's the third or fourth time I'm going to say that the Tax Authority has already denied...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u48	And Mr. Prime Minister is lying?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u49	Mr President, do you think that I can deny it on behalf of the Tax Authority? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u50	We found it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u51	Do you think I can say that the Tax Authority does this or otherwise without consulting the tax administration itself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u52	I think, I think!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u53	So, Mr. Deputy, do you think I answer for all the civil servants that exist in the state? Oh, my God! You think that's realistic?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u54	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u55	In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Ferro Rodrigues that the Tributary Authority has already failed and I cannot, as Prime Minister, stop giving a voice to this lie here too. There is no VIP bag! And, Mr, there is no initiative I have taken within the tax administration to initiate an investigation or accountability process concerning whoever is in the Tax Authority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u56	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u57	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in his initial speech, he chose not to answer some questions that the CFP had previously raised to him, namely whether or not he asked for any clarification to social security regarding the period of his debt, which were the entities that paid him the remuneration and when he paid the payment. We hope that you will still give some clarification, but we wanted to ask you a question. Looking at the public explanations he gave, he stated, at some point, that he did not know the law or that he had no money to pay. It is an explanation that, with regard to the citizen Steps Rabbit, could be understandable, because duty is neither shame nor death of man, but given by the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic becomes an ethical and political problem. In other words, the Prime Minister wants it to be valid for you to have a justification that the Government refuses to be valid for other citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u58	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u59	in this sense, tell us, Prime Minister: if a citizen has debts and says that he does not know the law or has no money to pay, what happens to him? Or, in fact, what happened to him? [[PSD protests.]] But say, Prime Minister, what happens to you, if you invoke a lack of knowledge of the law or lack of money to pay? [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u60	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u61	Madam President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in fact, I did not justify myself with social security or with the lack of knowledge of the law not to pay. I paid you, Mr. Deputy! Now, if you ask me: "Why was this responsibility there to be paid? », I cannot lie, Mr. I have to say it's because I didn't know she existed. But as soon as the question arises and I understood that it was preferable to remove any misunderstanding of interpretation as to whether this was due to me or not for eventually being prescribed — that I was — I prefer to pay. Please do not confuse this matter with matters of a fiscal nature, because I have never claimed a lack of means for this contributing matter. I asked you not to confuse me. I made this payment and did not argue with social security with this ignorance or any other reason. I have regulated the situation, Mr President. I did what I think any citizen can and should do. There was no exception here. Mr President, if I hadn't done it at the right time, that is, if social security had notified me years ago and demanded that payment, I would - obviously - have done so. And if he did not have the means to do so, the law would be complied with in the same way, Mr President. I was not treated, in terms of social security, differently from any other citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u63	That is what I would like to say to the honourable Member. I can only answer with the truth when I wonder why I had this responsibility to pay. And I'm deeply sorry that it had been like this. I would rather have known this obligation and have saved both the country and myself and my government from this situation. Surely, Mr. Deputies, I am deeply sorry. But I have to answer with truth and not with crafts. I can't answer it in any other way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u64	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u65	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, you are always in this debate far from the reality and the feelings that prevail in Portuguese society. It is because what permeates Portuguese society today is outrage at the fact that there are two pesos and two measures! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u66	You know, I've been here for 30 years, and those screams don't impress. But you can go on. [[PCP applause.]] in this sense, what did the government do in relation to, for example — and the government is responsible for this — to the small farmers who have delayed payment to social security? He cut without appeal or aggravating, cut the wrong and the right in access to green gas oil, in the subsidy given during the drought, in Community and national aid, in access to family allowance for his children, in matters of social protection. How did you deal with the workers with green receipts, who had to use the families? What did they have to borrow? What have some of your possessions seen? Some in unemployment and who had to pay what, strictly, social security required?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u68	That's why we insist. We do not want to make this a personal matter, but it is a political issue. This government has, in fact, two pesos and two measures... [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u69	...and therefore this feeling of outrage on the part of the Portuguese! [[PCP applause.]] However, Mr Prime Minister, this two-weight and two-measure policy is not an isolated case; it seems to be a bottle that prevails in the country's government action, particularly when it comes to income, price and tax policy. See there, Prime Minister : while the majority of the workers and the population see a drastic drop in their incomes, particularly wages, with some sectors reaching reductions above 20%; while every day the workers and the population see fall on their heads measures contained in the Budget — green taxes, IMI, thousands of employees of the Public Administration for mobility — there are sectors that have always guaranteed their incomes, I would say, their crying incomes, at the expense of everyone. There are the results of some privatized companies that provide essential services to the population, such as the economy, and this is the case with EDP and electricity supply. According to the results disclosed last week, in 2014 the profits will have reached EUR 1040 million. in all, from 2005 to 2014 we will be talking about around 10 billion euros of accumulated profits, being a good part distributed in the form of dividends for shareholders, with a large part that wing, fly out here! So much money and so much lack he does to the country, Madam President, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u71	But it is all the more shocking than then that successive increases in electricity tariffs are allowed, as in fact it happened at the beginning of 2015 with the government bailing on a further 3 % increase. Electricity prices which, it is good to remember, were brutally aggravated in 2012 due to the increase in electricity VAT, from 6 % to 23 %. Indeed, Mr. Prime Minister, the crisis is never their turn. Make sun or rain, your shareholders know in advance that your annual revenue is guaranteed. You're always right and risk-free. And woe to those who dare to pay the bill of electricity late! You know, Mr. Prime Minister, it is for these and others that this government no longer has the point where it gets caught. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u72	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u73	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I understand that, in your idea, it has already been framed—and I would say no in this debate, there are several debates — the concept that there are two pesos and two measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u74	The problem is, it's not just me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u75	But, Mr President, your remark does not match what I have just responded to. Don't hurt yourself. And therefore this is more of a prejudice that you have brought to the debate than a consequence of the debate itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u76	That's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u77	I have just told the honourable Member that I have never, in my contributing life or in my fiscal life, claimed a status other than that of any other Portuguese. None, Mr. Deputies! And I was treated like many others, strictly in it. So you cannot say that there are two pesos and two measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u78	I mean, I mean!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u79	I have not decided anything, as Prime Minister or as Government, in favour of my personal situation. Nothing, sir! I've already said it publicly. I didn't say it here so I wouldn't always be saying the same things, but I already said it. I never used my position for any personal benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u80	But he applied to the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u81	Mr President, I have applied to others what I think is an obligation for all. It wasn't just the others. He went to the others and me. Mr President, there has been no law that this Parliament has approved, since I am Prime Minister, that it has exempted me from anything. The laws are for everyone, sir! There are no two pesos or two measures! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] If you say to me, 'Well, but today the state is fighting for more avoidance than it did before', that is true. [[PCP protests.]] But, Mr President, let me tell you that I have never, but never, had tax evasion behaviors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u82	I didn't say that either!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u83	I would like to make that very clear. Mr President, all the laws that have been made, whether the electronic invoice, whether at the level of strengthening the means of combating tax evasion, I think they are positive to all. Mr President, that many times here have been outraged by the fact that there are many people informally running away from their obligations, it must not be against that, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u84	Use, for yourself, an argument that does not leave others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u85	With regard to the moral argument which the honourable Member makes about how the State and I now, as Prime Minister, insist on the enforcement charge after what has happened to me, I ask why, Mr President? I didn't do it? I didn't regulate? I didn't pay? [[PCP protests.]] Did I do anything that, for my own status or situation was different than for anyone else? No, sir! That's all I'd like to answer very clearly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u86	You paid when? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u87	He said: 'So, what about the prices of electricity and the results of companies that are distributed by shareholders? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, we live in a social market economy. The state imposed, during this period, even though we live... [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] Mr President, please listen because I think it is important to hear the answers to the questions you are asking. As I was saying, although we live in a social market economy, given the difficult circumstances we have experienced, the state has — this Parliament and the government — so as to create special contributions just for those with higher exceptional results:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u88	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u89	... extraordinary contribution to electricity and energy in general; extraordinary contribution on banks; extraordinary contribution on IRC. I mean, the higher the results, the greater the extraordinary contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u90	Twice the taxes went up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u91	We have to remove everything that is extraordinary, to the extent that we can regularize the country's situation. We are already doing so with the salaries of the public service; we have done so, although more than what was in our claims, in relation to certain types of pensions, but we have done so even by virtue of the decision of the Constitutional Court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u92	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u93	... and, Mr President, we have never stopped taking exceptional measures in exceptional times. Exceptional measures have exactly applied to whom I had the most!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u95	Therefore, Mr President, I do not understand how it says that there is indignation, because there are two weights and two measures, not in my personal case, but in the case of those who have higher incomes in companies or sectors such as energy or financial, and it has been legislated in order to strengthen the social contribution that should be demanded from these sectors. Therefore, it is precisely the opposite, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u96	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u97	I shall finish, Madam President, by reminding the honourable Member that electricity prices will be much lower than they would be without the measures we have taken. And I point out that all measures aimed at eliminating the tariff deficit, as well as those adopted now and which directly impact on prices, have imported into a very large difference of values either for households or for industrialists. Increases in electricity are in values within what can be accommodated and not at the level of the two digits, which is what would happen if these measures had not been adopted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u98	Wages decrease, but prices increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u99	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : We have a problem with sustainability in social security. If we do not resolve this, it is the State's ability to secure the pensions in question. It's a serious problem. And then there are many who should pay their taxes and don't pay. Why? Because they do not declare their activities. We have an obligation to correct these injustices.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u102	If anyone gets out of his obligations to society, have too much or little, that person is being an important burden to all others. You can't cheat, you can't pay at the right time. “I belong to a race of men who like to pay for what is due”. They are not my words, they are your statements, Prime Minister. So, Prime Minister, don't come here today to tell us about your debt to social security, 'at the time I didn't pay, but there are others who haven't paid', like a student who comes from school with a bad note and says that there are six colleagues who have worse notice. Mr. Prime Minister, five years are not 32 months old. There are newspapers that say that Mr. Prime Minister still has to pay 26 months and, of course, we already know that in due time he did not pay with certainty, the first question I have to ask him is whether he has the conditions to inform us of the payment of every month to social security and the time when he made that payment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u103	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u104	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let me tell you that I fully review the statements you have cited and belong to me. And don't take me the wrong way to stress, in particular, a part of them: I like to pay for what I owe. That's what I did. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to tell the honourable Member that, although I have not been aware of this responsibility, I have no strict debt to the State, whether to social security or to taxation. I don't have, Mrs. Member. I hope that you will believe what I am saying to you, but I do not understand that it would be useful for the matter to be clarified once again officially. Therefore, I am going to send the honourable Member a declaration of non-debt to the tax and a declaration of no debt to social security. I also want to tell you that I made a request for social security which was based on the persistence of the dissemination of news based on the reproduction of alleged social security documents, according to which I would not have liquidated all the amount of the debt recorded on my behalf in the social security information system. I therefore requested not only a statement of a contribution situation but also clarification as to whether, or ever, there was more of a prescribed debt recorded on my behalf in the social security information system, than that which I voluntarily liquidated last February, with a view to the establishment of future rights. in this request, I also ask that it be clarified if, at some point, I have benefited from some particular regime, not applicable to the generality of independent workers, in such circumstances. The answer to social security is attached here and, Mrs Deputy, I would be very pleased to bring it in. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u105	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this debate has already served something. [[He's from PSD:— Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u107	The question remains when you paid and why you paid. Mr. Prime Minister learned in 2012 that he had a debt and, as he said, only paid it in 2015. He waited three years without paying. Their distraction is a strange thing, because for five years Mr. Prime Minister, who had already been a Member, believed that social security was a kind of toast to the green receipts, who later had the right to reform without having to pay. Well, the other people knew it wasn't like that and they made their discounts. For five years Mr. Prime Minister, who had already been a Member, completed five models B of the IRS declaration, which contains that framework which says "compulsory contributions to social security", and did not realise that there were mandatory contributions to social security. What a distraction, Prime Minister! But, finally, let's get away from your distractions of that time and go to your 2012 distractions. Why didn't you regulate the debt in 2012? [[PSD protests.]] Why was it only to regularize the debt in 2015 when a journalist would like to publish the news to you? Why did you spend three years calling a cheater who paid late, calling an burden on the society that you paid late, and you've been a cheater for another three years and being that burden? Why didn't you pay in 2012? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u108	I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u109	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I know that normally another party is penalized by the natural order of things, but this time I believe that the Left Block cannot say that it has been distracted from the debate. You do not take me seriously, but I believe that I have already answered very often exactly this question, even in this debate. I have already answered in writing to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also answered in this debate. However, I would like to tell the honourable Member — allow me to have a little rectification — that it was not in fact three years, because my request for social security was made in November 2012. It was two years...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u110	And half!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u111	...and two months. But that's not what you're in charge of, Mrs. Deputies, of course. What is at stake is that it was on my own initiative that this issue was clarified up to the latest consequences. I would like to leave that underlined here. I believe that this merit must be stressed, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u112	It was on the initiative of the journalists!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u113	When a Mr. Journalist put this question, I consulted the Direct Social Security and verified that there was no debt registered on my behalf. There was no recorded debt and, moreover, I was able to print a declaration of non-debt at the time. What does that mean, Mrs. Member? It means that, at the time, the existing one was not required and, therefore, was not available in the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u114	It was, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u115	But it was with my insistence and my request that I was informed that there was this debt, which was, however, prescribed, if I understood to invoke that prescription. That I didn't invoke, Mrs. Member! I did not want to invoke the prescription because, of course, I intended to pay, even though it was not required. That is all I have to say to you, but I am not giving you any news because you already know that you have responded to these questions in this debate, and in writing before. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u116	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether you are expecting the country to thank you for paying your contributions to social security with more than 10 years of delay and more than two years and two months after you have been notified of the debt by a journalist. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, the more I listened to the notion that he paid only because he was public. I have the idea that it was all right for you, as long as you didn't know. As long as you did not know, Mr. Prime Minister lived well with his debt to social security and that is what is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister says he didn't pay for lack of money, for distraction, because he didn't know. But his government did not hesitate to sell the house to a family who did not know that he had to account for the finances of the slaughter of a car and that, because of a debt of a thousand and few euros, an unemployed woman with six children would be left homeless, if citizen solidarity had not paid his debt. What your government had to say to those who had the least was that it would regret the house, which sold it to you, that it would execute the house.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u119	Most PSD / CDS-PP, which today is applauding you, is the same majority that two weeks ago led the left block project to defend the housing houses of people who do not even have money to pay the tax debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u120	Lead and good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u121	In their government, students were deprived of scholarship because their parents had debts to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u122	That was the previous government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u123	At the end of 2013 false green receipt workers received letters from social security with prison threats. The question I ask you is: what will you do now, with the rise of the IMI, when a family is called to pay five more times and you have no money? You'll forgive him, why don't you have any money, or you'll regret your house? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u124	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the word to answer again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u125	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I cannot corroborate your judgment of intent. I'm sorry, but I'm not following you on that, so much more so that I didn't invoke any prescriptions, as I could have invoked, if I didn't want to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u126	Mrs Catarina Martins is the "inquisitioner-death"!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u127	If you didn't want to pay, Mrs Deputy, given that the State, social security, couldn't demand that payment, you wouldn't have done so, it would have been enough to invoke the prescription. That denies your judgment of intent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u128	And was it politically sustainable?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u129	Finally, she said, among other things, that there were higher education students who were left without their scholarships because of their parents' debts. I want to tell the honourable Member that it was exactly the opposite of what happened while I was Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u131	What we did was strictly prevent that circumstance from happening. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And we have clarified the system of scholarships so that this would not happen, Mrs Deputies. I would also like to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that it was not on the initiative of the Government but on the initiative of Parliament that, in previous years, private schemes were created in relation to obligations which citizens who had made loans for housing purchase might not lose the right to their dwellings in certain circumstances. Several parties presented initiatives in this regard, and were approved, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u132	It was the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u133	Therefore, you cannot say that the majority who supports this government had not had the social concern to seek to protect those who were most vulnerable during these years. It was exactly the opposite. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I conclude, Madam President, by telling the honourable Member that I have fulfilled my obligations by paying everything that could be missing and I have not argued, Mrs Deputy, that I have not brought the matter up to law, I have not tried to find escape for anything. I liquidated what I had to liquidate! I don't expect anyone to thank me, Your Honor. I have complied with what my obligations are. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u134	Mrs Catarina Martins, she still has some time to use her word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to make some clarifications. First of all, your government just ended up with the unfair measure of withdrawing scholarships to students whose parents had debts to social security after the situation has happened and after they have dropped here proposals from the Left Block to end it, before some young people had their future mortgaged. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, they did not protect the most fragile because, as I say to you, two weeks ago, the proposals went down so that housing houses could not be damaged and therefore continue to attack those who have less. Thirdly, Mr Prime Minister, and no less important, paying your obligations is also paying them in due time and not later. You know, there are people who work the green receipt that earn so little that they can't pay these contributions, but, as you're not Prime Minister, they can't pay these years all to be able to retire with age. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Mr Prime Minister bought years of reform but was not supportive of the current reforms and therefore Mr Prime Minister denied this basic obligation, citizen, of the intergenerational construction of social security... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u136	...and that is why this is a political issue. We are not asking you if you say good morning to your neighbor or if you separate waste for recycling, we are talking about basic citizenship obligations: paying taxes, contributing to social security, meeting the law in time and the way the law provides.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u137	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u138	I'm done now, Madam President. Four years after asking for everything that you have so little, you can't ask the country to understand its failures. The moralistic discourse he has made, from living above the possibilities, is a true shot of the Prime Minister in Pedro Passos Coelho. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u139	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u140	Pedro Passos Rabbit didn't pay what he should when he should. He was already Prime Minister when he was notified of the debt and continued to pay. All swampy! How can a country with a Prime Minister whose behaviour is a public invitation not to comply with the citizens' most basic obligations? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u141	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u142	And that is also why, although it is not only for this reason, Mr Prime Minister does not have objective political conditions to occupy his position. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u143	Let us turn to the Greens' question, by Mrs Heloísa Apollonia. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u144	Madam President, Prime Minister, I want to make a first registration. I believe it was important that the Prime Minister voluntarily bring the issue of debts to social security to the House in his first speech, as it is important for all parties to be raising this matter, in order to give a joint reply to the President of the Republic, because it has been shown here that this is not a pre-election party but a political issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u146	And, understanding the nature of the matter, which is indeed political, it is important that, in a second step, we leave aside the citizen Pedro Passos Coelho and look in detail at Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho. And that is why, Prime Minister, I want to tell you the following: according to your own information, you became aware of the debt to social security in 2012...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u147	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u148	...and decided not to pay at that time. However, as Prime Minister, he preached to the country the misfortune of the sustainability of social security, he inferred life to the Portuguese: he increased the age of reform, with gross cuts in social support, put the tax machine down on everything and something else to the citizens who had, and have, debts. And, attention, more and more people have debts to pay because you have infernified the financial condition of Portuguese families. But Mr. Prime Minister said he intended not to pay at that time in 2012 was not such a thing to be understood as a favor. And this is strange, Mr. Prime Minister, because the non-payment on the part of others is a mess for the country and the non-payment on the part of Mr. Prime Minister is a form of personal non-favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u150	And does the Prime Minister mean that there are no two pesos and two measures in the light of this question of non-payments? Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you very directly: do you not understand that you are discredited? Do you understand that you have more conditions to continue your course as Prime Minister? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u151	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u152	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that the honourable Member is or at least has reason to be sufficiently clear on the question of 2012. If you are not, I am sorry, but it is because you do not want to be clarified on this matter. It's very hard to explain who doesn't want to be clarified, Your Honor! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, not only have I answered in writing how I personally intervened, in terms of media space, to justify it and have said it here several times during this debate. So, Mrs Deputy, don't hurt yourself, but if you're not clear, I think it's because you don't want to be. You tell the honourable Member that the government has tightened the requirement for obligations on the part of citizens and that this is not compatible with the fact that I am in breach. But, Madam Member, it would only be so, firstly, if I were consciously in breach and secondly, if I had treated, as Prime Minister, citizen Pedro Passos Coelho differently than any other citizen, and it was not so, Mrs Deputy. I want to say again that I have regulated this situation as any other citizen could, under the same conditions. And, Mrs Deputy, I never invoked a prescription, even when the state could not legally demand that payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u153	But politically, that was impossible and unsustainable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u154	But I did it because of what I called a natural obligation. I'm not preaching anything that doesn't agree with what I've always said. It would be inconsistencies to do it differently. The misconception that I thought could happen in 2012 is proven by the debate that has been held—very well-proven. But, Mrs Deputies, it is understood that still, and in spite of this misunderstanding, one must criticize someone to remove this misunderstanding and explain that, although it is not necessary, he found that he had a natural obligation to pay and paid, if someone is criticized for something and on the contrary, then, from here, the debate has ceased to have rationality. What I can tell the honourable Member is that it contributes to my clarifications so that everything can be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u155	There are questions you didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u156	And I gave myself, I think, humbly, what anyone in my place should do: do not take refuge in politics and answer. I conclude, Mrs Deputies, that this for Parliament should have been important, since it consumed the whole parliamentary debate today. But, Madam President, in the end, to say that it has not been clarified or that there are two pesos and two measures here, it is a conclusion that distorts the debate we have had here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u157	Although it is very little, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia still has time. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u158	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, what I think is very difficult to explain is not clear. You see, Prime Minister, what's the difference? [[PSD protests.]] The question is that Mr. Prime Minister will insist, always with the same words, that the story will beat everything right from now on. But there is one thing that Mr. Prime Minister has not yet been able to clarify, which is the following: in 2012 he became aware that he had a debt. I didn't want to pay for it, it wasn't the others who thought it was being favored or benefited, and paid for it in 2015, Prime Minister. The question that needs to be asked is why he did not pay it immediately in 2012, when he was preaching to the Portuguese the misfortune of the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u160	Why didn't you do it at the time? Do you not think that this was ethical, moral, even a logic of good performance, in view of what you said and what you should necessarily do? We're not going before, we're going to 2012, Mr. Prime Minister. It is already in this position that you create an incongruence that cannot explain, it is not explicable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u161	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u162	So this dark, political hole will continue. Therefore, Prime Minister, you are well on earth because you are politically discredited and a Prime Minister in this situation has no further conditions for the exercise of his office. It was important that Mr. Prime Minister himself had that conscience. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u163	The next intervention is the CDS-PP. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Prime Minister, of course we have questions to ask you about the country, but the debate has focused on the contributing situation of citizen Pedro Passos Coelho and, of course, we will not run away from the subject, of course, as Mr Prime Minister did, humbly recognizing shortcomings in this matter. The democratic debate, in the Assembly of the Republic, asked questions, given the answers, clarified the legitimate doubts that many Portuguese might have, as I said here, have been made three things clear. First of all, there was no differentiated treatment of citizen Pedro Passos Coelho, today Prime Minister, in the face of other Portuguese, at the time and in the same circumstances. Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho and more 107 000 Portuguese, as it is known, were not notified to pay in 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u165	And then? What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u166	That is, in the former Government of the Socialist Party, in the Ministry of Vieira da Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u168	... were 107 000 Portuguese, including Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, who were not notified to pay. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only important because I repeat the thesis that there are two weights and two measures or a differentiated treatment. It would be important for the opposition if there was a differentiated treatment. There wasn't! There was no differentiated treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u170	Secondly, it also seems to us that it was clear that citizen Pedro Passos Coelho, today Prime Minister, regulated what he had to regulate, paying the fines that the law provides for any citizen when he pays late, when he is late in payments. Thirdly, it would also be possible to ask ourselves: « Well, who has more responsibilities, especially those who hold political office, because of this responsibility, even if it is not obliged, should or should not pay, in so far as the State, in 2009, has, by no chance, prescribed for incompetence? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's what Mr. Prime Minister, then Pedro Steps Rabbit, did. There are three clear issues such as water — shortcomings assumed with humility, payments made, explanations given, closed subject. We're going to the country, Prime Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And, to speak of the country, I would like to stress the reimbursement that this country, which was bankrupt three years ago, was able to make one of its creditors, the IMF, of about 14 million euros, thus saving, in 2015, the Portuguese, and only in interest, 100 million euros, in a forecast of 700 million euros in total. This reveals the credibility, trust and financial stability of this country, which it is important to underline. It is also important to underline what Mr. Prime Minister has done, and well. Today we know that between January 2014 and January 2015 Portugal has had the third largest decline in unemployment in the European Union ; today it is 13, 3 %, less 1, 7 % than in 2014, converging with the European Union average of 11, 2 %, and diverging with other countries in difficulties, such as Greece and Spain. in the same way, Mr Prime Minister said that unemployment, especially young people, remains high. Certainly, yes, but it has also retreated, this is also having a trend that we consider to be favourable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u172	Mr. Prime Minister, however, at least apparently news has emerged of the much-expected proposals of the largest opposition party, of the Socialist Party, such 55 proposals by Dr. António Costa, which are basically vague, indeterminate advice: rest, reinforce, enhance, value, approach... Mr. Prime Minister, I think the worst thing for the Portuguese is that it seems that what will be restored are the ministers who led the country to bankruptcy. According to the news released today, for these 55 proposals and to make the programme of the Socialist Party government, Dr.António Costa decided to call, no less, former ministers of the Socialist Party. I hope that, at least for agriculture, it makes sense not to call Dr. Jaime Silva, who left us an invoice of EUR 140 million, only in fines to pay, in the plot, because he did not want to, he was unable to make surveys! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is truly frightening for the future of the country, Mr. Prime Minister, who calls Dr. Jaime Silva, a Nobel Prize in Disposing, who in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 did nothing, making the country pay fines worth 140 million euros. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that after this noble prize of disillusionment, and taking into account that this government, headed by Mr Prime Minister and the Minister for Cristian Assumption, in the specific case, have executions of the PRODER at 96 % — which are the best executions of the European Union, as it has been said — it seems to me that in recent days there is also another extraordinary fact in relation to these proposals of the Socialist Party. You see the Socialist Party — and allow me to picture it in some way in vogue, it was recently the ceremony of the Oscars — not at the noble prize of the waste, but at the noble prize of the discharge, saying that it will restore the safeguard clause with respect to the IMI. This is, Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to what would be thought.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u173	Hail to the heavens!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u174	Just to think a little bit about what happened, I remember that in 2011 the Socialist Party signed, with the troika, a Memorandum that provided a new update of the IMI for urban buildings. In 2011 the Socialist Party — the one whose ministers will be recovered to make, in 2015, the programme for the decade that Dr. António Costa wants to present — deliberately forgot to demand a safeguard clause, whatever it was, especially for the most disadvantaged. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u175	This majority and this government, when it took possession of, in a state of great need—in a state of very necessity, because it needed to have liquidity to pay pensions and wages to the social functions of the State—in spite of the troika, it was able to impose this safeguard clause. We have endured the safeguard clause for three years. in these three years we did not have the collaboration of the Socialist Party, which in one case even voted against. In 2015, after these three years, Prime Minister, however, we maintained two exceptions to the safeguard clause that safeguard the most disadvantaged. Now, after negotiating the Memorandum of Understanding, if you have forgotten these families, if you have voted against government proposals to safeguard these families, the first thing the Socialist Party does is to say that it will restore the IMI? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, it's the noble prize of discharge! This happens and is the measure of credibility — and lack of credibility — of the Secretary-General of this Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u176	I now give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u177	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have made an assessment, on the side of your bench, of the entire discussion we have discussed here on the question of my contribution situation. I would like to tell you that, given all the clarifications that I thought it should give and that I could give, because there are some clarifications that I cannot give, but there are some that you have pointed out and that you have to do with the past situation of social security, which you have not dealt with in my case in particular, but you have made my case a case which I will not say general but very common - the government has never allowed it to be prescribed for matters of a contributing nature. That, of course, we did not. I want to highlight this because I think that is the government's obligation. Whenever an effort is required, we must ensure that this effort is shared fairly by all citizens, by all those who have these obligations. I would like to say this, Mr President, to make it very clear that the Prime Minister's authority is not a little beautified in this matter. The Prime Minister's role is always to enforce the law and to be diligent in this matter. I want to say, Mr President, that for this reason your conclusion is also mine, as I said earlier. in this regard, after having given all the clarifications I have given, I think it can be concluded that I have obtained no favor on the side of the State or social security and that I have fulfilled my obligations. And that, therefore, despite past failures, I have no irregular situation, neither in the face of social security, nor in the face of taxation. I believe, Mr President, that this conclusion is important so that we cannot be distracted from the other essential things. And these other essential things, Mr President, have also brought them to this debate. The fact that we are now with the authorization of our European partners to be able to repay the International Monetary Fund in advance is good evidence of how we have put the most difficult circumstances that have left Portugal under strong pressure for a few years. A Portuguese journalist in Madrid who asked the President of the European Commission how the Commission saw the situation in countries such as Portugal, who, although they had left programmes, were still under strong pressure, that we are not under strong pressure, and this is due, in many circumstances, to how we were also able to meet what was in the process of adjusting our economy, which was committed to our partners. We are therefore able to have interest rates at 10 years — but at other times too — historically very low. Where this is noted, various opposition parties point out that this is a situation which results not from the fact that we have met the Memorandum of Understanding and closed the financial assistance, but from the fact that we have a more active position on the part of the European Central Bank that favours the fall in interest rates. I have never denied that the ECB's policy has an influence on our interest rates, I have also asked to draw attention to the fact that this is not enough to explain the decline in interest rates, and today, to say no during the last few days, we have observed the impact that the so-called quantitative easing process, which the ECB is carrying out, has produced favourably in the medium and long-term interest rates of many European States. That is also why I have no doubt, we are seeing interest rates falling at all times. But Greece has been increasing interest rates. We wonder if the European Central Bank solves the problem of interest rates, why are we all benefiting from this and Greece is penalized for that? I think it would be important for opposition parties to also analyze these situations so that they could also give an image of exemption in the arguments they use. I can tell you my explanation for this. My explanation is associated with the persistence of doubts, which are fuelled by the Greek government itself, about the possibility of fulfilling its obligations and of course causes doubt on markets and investors about the ability to comply with those who say they are not going to meet. I believe that there will be no one in Europe who does not want this story to have a different outcome than the one the markets have been drawing, and I would like to reiterate that, on the Portuguese side and the Portuguese Government, we sincerely hope that Greece will be able to overcome the difficult situation it has experienced. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But I also want to say, Mr, that this result is not altered only by proclamations. In political action every day, it is necessary to promote what is to be achieved. I am afraid that over the years, and what Mr Nuno Magalhães has said is the consequence that we are picking up this strategy that we are pursuing, whether it is with regard to unemployment, whether it is with regard to reimbursement to the International Monetary Fund, whether it is with regard to the increase in the number of jobs that have been established. I shall conclude by saying, Mr President, on the issue of the safeguard clause — since I am not going to comment on the proposals which the Socialist Party has been announcing in the public square to, in a way, make it clear that it has a strategy for the country, that the safeguard clause has already been put in place in the time of this government. And we did it just to prevent the re-evaluation of real estate assets, which was committed to the Memorandum of Understanding, from imposing on citizens, in an excessive way, increases in their responsibilities that they could not have conditions to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u179	This clause fulfilled its obligation and, for this reason, the process of increasing IMI was amortised by these clauses. As you said, the most important ones, who have a special nature, have remained on the first step in incomes for the purposes of IRS, and have also been extended the condition of exception in the lowest incomes, which lie outside the responsibility of IRS, i.e. citizens who will not be taxed for their incomes. Therefore, we have extended to this condition, just to safeguard the circumstances of citizens who have very low incomes. Mr President, we have fulfilled our obligation, protecting those who needed protection, but we did not contradict and this contradiction happened when, on the side of the Socialist Party, it was suggested that it would be important to extend the safeguard clause, which is precisely what will allow the reduction of the IMT, which, for example, the City Council of Lisbon decided that it was important to maintain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u180	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u181	I shall conclude, Madam President. At the same time, it is not possible to claim the decline of the IMT and maintain the safeguard clause of the IMI, which is precisely in view of the reduction of the IMT that we hope to achieve. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u182	We turn to the PSD, by Mr Luís Montenegro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, in our constitutional system, the Government politically depends on the Assembly of the Republic and it, in its diversity, represents the free will of the Portuguese people. The political will of Parliament, which is representative of the Portuguese people, is clear. The Government has the unequivocal trust of Parliament. And more than that, the Prime Minister, as he guarantees that it has always been, and is, of the stability, credibility, of the firmness of the political action of the Government, also has the full confidence of Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Trust expressed by the cohesive and convincing support of the absolute majority of Members in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u184	We don't even have to make elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u185	Mr Prime Minister, with the questions asked by the parties and to which Mr Prime Minister answered, with this lively, frontal debate, which we are working here today, Mr Prime Minister gave the clarifications that were due and Parliament fulfilled its role as a voter of the Government. For us, Prime Minister, the case is indeed closed. But we are not naive and we know that for the opposition the clarifications will never be enough! We know that it is the dynamic of things, of the democratic political struggle, that opposition even tries to embolden these situations and take advantage of this situation. That's right, Prime Minister. We can regret this politically more petty vision, we can even denounce it, but we are not going to complain about it. Each Portuguese, Mr. Prime Minister, will, in fact, make his judgement on the behaviour of all political agents. Our dynamics, Prime Minister, is another, our dynamics are different. Our dynamic is to build such a country, such a different country, such a country that has faced and is conquering the crisis — it is so. And « the like» is the country of Dr. António Costa. [[PS laughter.]] Are you laughing? So they're laughing at your leader. It is this country, such a different country, Mr. Prime Minister. We assume this dynamic regardless of the audience we have in front of us—let's say pass, now. We are not of those who say different things in front of different public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u187	...to pretend to please everyone. That's right, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. And for a very simple reason: we do not exchange convictions for conveniences. Mark that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We believe what we say. And we always say, always what we think. [[PS protests.]] We believe, in fact, that the country is different, that the country is better, and that this is due to the Portuguese effort and capacity. I ask you, Prime Minister: is there, in fact, a consistent path to reducing unemployment? Are there more favourable conditions for financing the State and the economy, which favour investment and which will also favour the use of Portugal 2020?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u189	Is there or is there no credibility in our budgetary policy? For example, what happens to the 2014 deficit target: still recently, UTAO has come to say precisely that this goal will fall below what was estimated. What a difference of credibility for the years prior to the exercise of the functions of this Government, Prime Minister! And there is or is there no reason to continue to believe that 2015 will indeed be the first year, since April 25, in which we will have a deficit below 3 % and in which we will achieve this objective without the need for any additional restriction measures? But, Prime Minister, as we have always said, financial stabilization, financial sustainability is a assumption, not the end of our policy. It's a assumption that opens horizons. It opens up the horizon of economic growth, which we have already; it opens the horizon of employment recovery, which we also have; and it also opens the horizon of the preservation of the social state. The opposition today did not talk about the social state here, but I want to talk about the social state, Prime Minister. And let's talk about the health case in particular. I ask you, Prime Minister, that we all have the capacity, the distance from focusing our attention on one or another anomalous situation, which we respect and which involved our fellow citizens, but that is not the issue, Prime Minister. The question is whether this path of financial stabilization has enabled improvements in the service that is provided to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u190	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u191	It is true or not, Mr. Prime Minister, that, in 2014 after all the effort we had to do, the National Health Service had more consultations, had more surgeries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u192	More layoffs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u193	... had more episodes of emergency treated, and it worked with moderate rates with more exemptions than those there were, even before we had the country with so much financial restriction? Is it true or a lie, Prime Minister, that we have the cheapest medicines today? And what are cheaper at the expense of not the State budget but the reduction in the margins of pharmaceuticals and even pharmaceuticals? Is it or is it not true that, despite the difficulties, we have had the ability to invest in hospital units? And what have we had to pay, so far, more than EUR 2000 million of debts, of the EUR 3000 million we inherited from the governments of the Socialist Party? And is it or is it not true that we are recruiting more doctors for the National Health Service? Mr Prime Minister, is it or is it not true that the Government has been able to close the negotiation with regard to the drug that fights hepatitis C and that today — today, at the time of this debate — to 1400 Portuguese citizens affected by this disease?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u195	This is such a different country, Mr. Prime Minister. This is the most credible country. It is, in fact, different and more credible! And it is also with that difference and with that credibility that the Government, as the Prime Minister here said in the initial intervention, can lead today in Europe a debate that is very relevant to Europe and also to Portugal and the Iberian Peninsula, which we have a more diversified energy policy, which fights dependence and brings more conditions of competitiveness to our economy. Mr Prime Minister, I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to greet the Government, congratulate you on the summit at which you participated in Madrid and also on what resulted from the meetings with the Algerian authorities. In conclusion, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say the following: financial stabilization, I repeat, is a assumption, is not the end of our policy. But I have only met this assumption that we can actually have the country growing today, we can have the country now regaining employment and we can have the public services available to serve the citizens when they need it. That is also why, Prime Minister, I want to finish here by telling you, in an even more convincing and reinforced way by the debate we have had here, which we consider, myself and the PSD, that citizen Pedro Passos Coelho is, in fact, a citizen who is not perfect but is the Portuguese best prepared to be Prime Minister in the next five years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am leaving this debate even more convinced, even more convinced of the way we are going, of the government than the Prime Minister is leading and acting as a political leader. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u196	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u197	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I believe that the statements you made, particularly on health policy, on the area of health, are quite welcome. And, yes, it is true—I have just been here to see my notes—we have recently learned about the report that was presented by ACSS ( Central Health System Administration) and that shows the performance of our National Health Service, at the level of its hospital network, during the year 2014. It is true that it clearly shows that there was not only a significantly higher number of surgeries in public hospitals as there was also a higher number of external consultations, nursing consultations and not only specialties. Therefore, there was a level of activity greater than 2013, including of course also the episodes of urgency, which had, yes, anomalous behavior vis-à-vis normal years, but which also had — as I had already pointed out here in the parliamentary debate — a very significant response by the entire National Health Service. But I would also like to take this opportunity to add that, in addition to these positive performances which you have pointed out here, there have been other important measures and signs in terms not only of regularizing our social public policies, despite the difficult times we have gone through, but also of achieving objectives that were important to Portugal and that were clearly achieved for the first time. What, I think, is to emphasize how relevant it is until what the Directorate-General of Health has disclosed about new cases of tuberculosis. For the first time, Portugal is below a level of new cases of tuberculosis per year, which placed Portugal as the only European country that did not comply with this ratio. We heard this Tuesday that Portugal has a rate of about 18, 7 per 100,000 inhabitants of new cases of tuberculosis. And, as I said, Portugal was the only country with a rate of more than 20 per 100,000 inhabitants. In spite of the warnings left by the Directorate-General for Health, in particular the fact that, in the country, Lisbon and Porto, the large urban centres still have higher rates than this national average, thus requiring follow-up, even though there are still adjustments in this provisional indicator, it is confirmed that Portugal, for the first time, will have lowered this rate in 2014, which was a rate which, in some ways, was embarrassing Portugal when compared to other European countries. I believe that this is also a very positive symptom that, over these years, and despite the restrictions, we have been able to achieve important results for the National Health Service and, therefore, for the Portuguese. I would also like to remind you that we have been able to find ways to extend the recruitment of new nurses and to extend, for another three years, although in an even more favourable regime, the hiring of retired doctors, which will thus supply some lack of doctors that exist to recruit by the National Health Service. And the government is still finalizing an initiative that aims to ensure that, in the various specialties, but generally in the General Clinic, it is possible to create conditions for the attractiveness and fixation of physicians in more depressed areas that cannot see the competitions that are launched for the fixing of these doctors in the interior. I believe that this also gives an image of how we have achieved, in addition to the indicators that Mr has advanced and whose performance we have already remembered in other debates, bring even more good news to the Portuguese, as regards the near future, within the scope of the service that is provided with quality by our National Health Service. On the other hand, the honourable Member has made it implicit that there are also important indicators that show how Portugal was building a path of credibility in its recovery. I believe that this is important, especially since the times ahead are times that will still require earth-based feet and a lot of rationality and political determination in front of the government. We will see shortly when we start the debate on the European Semester, which will be under consideration at the next European Council next week, that the imbalances that we have accumulated over many years do not last one year for the next. But it is important to remember that over the years we have managed to reverse some trends that made these imbalances unsustainable in some way. One of them is very well mirrored today in terms of what happens to our public debt. It is clear today that it did not increase because of public disloyalty, that is to say, the State has not been acting in a bad way and, to this extent, we have already registered primary surpluses, i.e. budgetary surpluses, if we do not take into account the interest we have to pay for the accumulated debt. But we are also benefiting from the credibility that we have built up in order to reduce the costs of this debt for the future. And we have achieved two things: firstly, to use monetary surpluses that we have accumulated, which were emboldening, to make our public debt ratio, grossly, higher than the net ratio, just to be able to pay past responsibilities. This means, therefore, that over the course of this year, the inversion of the debt ratio trend will be clear, which is decreasing. We are also replacing old debt, which had a more expensive service, for new debt, which has a cheaper service. It is very important to underline this, because that is what helps to give sustainability to our public debt. But it is only possible - precisely because we are building a path of credibility with our investors. Mr President, I therefore believe that, contrary to what the opposition has said, the government has always done what it could to reduce the public deficit so as not to add more debt to the future and at this time it still adds to the debt stock because of the interest we have to pay for the debt of the past. If that weren't, we'd be reducing the debt stock by now. We are also creating conditions for the service of that debt to represent less for the future. I conclude by saying that the different country we need to build, the said change that the country needs to make has come into effect. What we need now is to consolidate it and continue to make this change. We know who brought the change to the country, but we also know what it took us to change. And there is no Portuguese who forgets what this necessary change has cost, which will give sustainability to public finances for the future and which will ensure a more open economy for Portugal, with more employment. That is why it is important to pursue policies that do not throw us into the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[At the moment, demonstrations of protest of an element of the public present in the galleries were recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u198	Please leave. Please leave immediately. You have to leave, please, and respect Parliament. [[Pause.]] This concludes the first debate this afternoon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to a second debate, preparatory to the next European Council, in accordance with Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. The frame of the debate is as follows: at the opening stage, Mr Prime Minister will use the floor ; follow-up will be speeches from all parliamentary groups ; finally, at the closing stage, Mr Prime Minister will speak again. You have the floor, Mr Prime Minister, to open the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it is public next week we will hold the European Council, in the middle of the European Semester. For this reason, and despite having on our agenda such important external issues as the Eastern Partnership Summit, the assessment of the crisis in Ukraine and the relations between the European Union and Russia and, above all, the question of Libya as the most emblematic of the situation in the fight against terrorism and radicalization, it is important to remember not only the theme chosen as the background of the summit, that of energy, but also the issues related to the European Semester. With regard to energy, I would just like to recall that the European Commission has submitted a communication on the basis of which we must build a strategy that will enable us to achieve a full internal energy market. Many of the decisions that have been adopted, which have been implemented by the various countries, are part of a clear strategy, already mentioned at the European Council last December, and which should be extended in such a way that, firstly, all efficient costs can be properly met in the new investments being made and, secondly, the creation of an internal energy market, which can be reflected in lower costs for consumers and businesses, thus supporting the growth of the economy and employment, and that no situation of energy isolation can remain. The goals that were then set will now be scrutinized according to the concrete projects that will be discussed. In the case of Portugal and Spain, in particular, we enjoy the advantage of having achieved, as I said in the previous debate, with the involvement of the European Commission, to establish an agreement that allows us to monotorize the entire investment process, which will ensure that by 2020 the energy isolation situation between the European Union and the Iberian Peninsula passes into the past. I therefore think, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, from the energy point of view, Portugal, Spain and France will participate in this debate of the European Council, showing that they are not simply waiting for a strategy led by the European Commission and then implemented by each of the countries, to the extent that this is not a question that is Community-wide, since they have been able to understand each other and start a programme, a process that will ensure that a discriminatory situation and that it does not live with a real energy market can be overcome. This is also the occasion to remind the House, before the Portuguese, that this is the first time that we will be subject to this European Semester exercise no longer belonging to the group of countries under financial assistance. This means, therefore, a particular set of obligations. This year, unlike previous years, Portugal will therefore need to present the national reform programme and its stability programme, which should properly address the evaluation that the European Commission has made and that the European Council has adopted on specific recommendations for Portugal. After the Eurogroup and the Ecofin have carried out this evaluation, Heads of State and Government will have the opportunity to assess the situation in each country. In the case of Portugal, it means that we will need to convince our partners and the European Commission that, according to the budget we have presented and that it has previously been assessed as a proposal still by the European Commission, it will be implemented within the limits envisaged. I would like to say here what the Minister of Finance has also said before her European partners, that is, Portugal is convinced that it will achieve the goals it has committed in budgetary terms and that in 2015 we will be able to exit the excessive deficit procedure as we will have a deficit of less than 3%. It is also important to be aware that, despite the fact that Portugal can achieve a deficit of 3, 2 % of GDP at the end of this year, the European Commission accepts that another result can be achieved and therefore 3, 2 % do not force Portugal to adopt contingency or emergency measures which ensure that the deficit target below 3 % is met. This means that there is a margin of respect for the European Commission for the commitment that Portugal has made that will come out of this excessive deficit and that the projection it makes is not incompatible with the outlook of the Portuguese Government. The Commission admits that new measures may be necessary if the government's assumptions are not yet verified and we have already said that we are convinced that — and we have no evidence to the contrary — we will not need new measures to achieve the results. On the other hand, the European Commission has made it clear that Portugal, like France, Italy and Croatia, deserves particular attention to the fact that they have accumulated high imbalances and, in the case of Portugal, with emphasis on stock, the public debt ratio and the level of unemployment. I want to say here that the government has never hidden this data from the past and we will reiterate that, despite these imbalances being high, because since we are no longer under adjustment we cannot fail to integrate the group of countries that are under surveillance in this area, we have come, in all these variables that are being observed over time, to have a favourable behaviour to reduce, in time, this stock of debt and unemployment that has been inherited. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that with regard to Portugal, the Government's conviction is that we are in a position to present a strategy, either in a national reform programme or in a stability programme, which are compatible with the corrections of these macroeconomic imbalances that we have inherited from the past and which allow us to achieve the fundamental objectives that we have proposed in 2015 and 2016. I would also like to take this opportunity, Madam President, to tell all the parties with parliamentary representation that the Government has already addressed to them and to all the social partners, noting that it awaits its contributions both for the revision of the national reform programme and for the stability programme. I hope that it will be clear that if this is an obligation of Portugal, it must also be an obligation of the Government. But being an obligation of Portugal, it is not only an obligation of the Government ; it is an obligation of all parties, mainly of those who have parliamentary expression. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I hope that all parties will be able to contribute to saying how we will be able to correct these important macroeconomic imbalances that have been accumulated and how we can, by 2016, therefore, be consistent with these objectives before presenting any budget for this year. Of course, it is expected, above all, that the Socialist Party, which is the largest party in the opposition, will make a transparent contribution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u200	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u201	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by stressing the relevance of some topics on the agenda of the European Council on 19 and 20 March, including the energy union, the question of Ukraine and the adoption of the general terms of the European Strategic Investment Fund. I stress the importance for Portugal of interconnections and the fulfilment of the 10 % target by 2020. After the agreement reached with Spain and France, we hope that the work of several governments can now be completed and that the obstacles that have been created for several years can be overcome. We have demonstrated our expectations regarding the implementation of the Minsk II agreements. The confrontation in Ukraine is the most serious of the last 50 years in Europe. It is necessary to build a lasting understanding with Russia that preserves peace in Europe and preserves our fundamental values. The European Council will also discuss the issue of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. Portugal is among the countries where the most investment has fallen in recent years by the hand of your Government, Prime Minister. This fall in investment is a serious blow in our ability to grow, to be competitive, to create wealth and ultimately to reduce the debt ratio compared to GDP and to meet our future obligations. It is therefore urgent to take advantage of the Juncker plan and the opportunities it gives us. In our view, Portugal should contribute to the fund which is being set up in order to have the ability to influence and better access to it. I hope that the government's prejudice against investment, in particular against public investment, will not go unnoticed by you, Prime Minister. Several Member States have already announced their intention to contribute to this fund and Portugal has not yet expressed this intention. Mr Prime Minister and his Government will sit in this European Council under close surveillance — you have already acknowledged it here today. After all that we have been obliged, of all austerity, of unemployment, of cuts in wages and pensions, of worsening poverty and risk of poverty, of rising taxes, of the drastic decrease in investment I have already mentioned, of the disruption of services that the State provides to citizens, Europe now tells us again that it is concerned about the situation in Portugal and its serious imbalances, especially at social level. And at the same time as you tell us this, you will be warning that more measures may be needed, as I said, the Eurogroup last Monday. at this point, I want to point out a contrast which leaves Mr. Prime Minister and the government badly in the photograph. France, which also has serious problems, has just achieved another two years for its budgetary consolidation process in order to avoid more steep cuts and social problems. On the contrary, you and your government have received from the Eurogroup the message that they have to pay prayers to those who hurt. This is further proof that the attitude of the government, which is a passive attitude, a defensive attitude, as Dr. Durão Barroso said a few days ago, an attitude of acceptance of everything we want to impose, is wrong. This attitude is not consistent with the interests of Portugal. It makes no sense that in the face of the alarm signals recorded by the European Union itself, the government continues to accept everything passively and does not simply say « we need something else. Do not keep on seeking. ” This attitude of submission contrasts, by the way, with the gross voice the Portuguese Government has made in negotiations with the new Greek government. It tells us Juncker, and we have no reason to doubt its rigor, on the contrary, that Portugal has been very demanding in relation to Greece. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to make it clear that the Socialist Party considers this incomprehensible and unacceptable attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u203	Portugal should be one of the most strongly advocates and practitioners of the fundamental values of European cohesion and solidarity. This fame which you are bringing to Portugal from someone who is not necessary and which only makes it difficult does not correspond to our history and the spirit of our presence in the European Union. In addition, this attitude is sensitive to national interests. Regardless of the merit of the Greek Government or its political inclination, the debate that the Greek government is forcing Europe to do is important for Europe itself, for the stability of the euro and for the change in the austerity direction that we have been forced to follow and that it is making us worse and worse. What could be expected was that the Portuguese Government did not assume blocking positions, but rather a constructive position. Mr. Prime Minister, it is imperative to take advantage of all the dynamics of change in Europe, come from where they come from. On a visit to Portugal a few days ago, the Minister of State for German European Affairs said—and I quote: 'Austerity policy is liquidated, it is over'. Yes, Prime Minister, this austerity policy is liquidated and the Portuguese Government is increasingly the only one who has not yet realized or has not yet become convinced of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u204	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u205	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister : With regard to the European Council, we thought that we would stress the importance of the adoption of the regulation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, such a miracle of bread multiplication or better of the millions that Mr Juncker invented, but Mr Prime Minister did not mention this. He seems to be suspicious of the filling—but he will say. The European Council will also address the conclusion of the first phase of the European Semester 2015 process. As is known, Portugal, after the formal departure of the troika, has automatically entered the meshes of the budget treaty, economic governance packages and the European Semester. The Minister of Finance there said that Portugal will meet the deficit target of 3% by the end of the year. Let's go! In fact, experience shows that government’s optimistic forecasts are full of hell. But go ahead. The fact is that Portugal is under enhanced surveillance by the Commission, because—it is over! — has a very high debt, various social problems and anaemic economic growth. It is appropriate to say that the government and its friends in Brussels do evil and the caramunha and then they are passing the hot potato from one to the other. But they're not alone, it's true. The criteria and instruments that are now used to require more reforms and more sacrifices for Portuguese are those which you and the PS have both approved and defended, in particular the budget treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u206	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u207	Such is the only proof that the propaganda of the end of the troika was that. So the question is: what additional measures are being discussed in the framework of the European Semester? What are you preparing on the back of the Portuguese? This Council plans to take stock of the situation with regard to the transatlantic treaty, the TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America ). Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: is it available in this Parliament to make the necessary debate on labour rights, on the attack on national sovereignty, on food quality and sovereignty and even on environmental issues? We want to be very clear: the CFP directly opposes an agreement that only serves the interests of the great multinationals and will further destroy our productive sector. That is why we demand this debate. And the secrecy that has surrounded the ongoing negotiation process is not a good sign, Prime Minister. Speaking of the great interests, I would like to ask you another question: what is the position of the Portuguese Government in the face of the statements by the President of the European Commission defending the formal creation of an army of the European Union to, and I quote, "to make Russia understand that we are serious when it comes to defending the values of the European Union"? What values are we talking about, Prime Minister? Will it be of the value of « using force to trigger another conflict », which can have unpredictable consequences in Europe? These statements will only nude the nature of the European Union. Unbridled neoliberalism, unbridled taxation, blackmail and almost colonial posture are no longer enough, as it has been and is quite clear in the case of Greece. neoliberalism and federalism are associated, as it could not fail to be, the militaristic aspect, which proves that this is not the direction that our people and others need, which is contrary to peace, cooperation, mutual respect between the peoples and the countries of Europe. These, yes, are civilizational values that need to be defended. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u208	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u209	Madam President, Prime Minister : The Portuguese Government presents itself at the next threefold weakened European Council. First, it is weakened because this is the second 15-month debate, in six months, in which questions on basic obligations are discussed as citizens who have never been clarified. I think it is not easy for democracies to understand what is going on in Portugal. It is true to say that a disgrace never comes alone. In Portugal, he is a Prime Minister who does not have political conditions for being and who joins a President of the Republic who since the beginning has changed to be the guarantor of the Constitution and the institutions for being the guarantor of his party. Mr Prime Minister, the problem is that the international discrediting of the Government and the Presidency has an effect on the choices taken here. Secondly, it is presented at the weakened European Council because it comes with the image of the good student who has finally plummeted at the end of the year. It was shown as an example of success when blackmail was needed. Here: the good way will be to submit to Germany. But, well past the number of propaganda, the numbers are serious: the increase in public debt, which exceeded 130 % of GDP; the deficit is not controlled, and it can well rise above 3 %; and the huge unemployment rate, which is not hidden by the figures that Mr Prime Minister brought, on a very simple issue. We look at employment numbers: between 2004 and 2010, Portugal lost 400 000 people of active age and lost 500 000 people to work. In addition, today there are more than 800 000 people with underemployment or part-work. Yes, Prime Minister, we have a serious, very serious problem of unemployment and it does not seem to be being solved. That is why Portugal is under the supervision of the European Commission and under the threat of the Eurogroup to implement further austerity measures. After the trumpetes of success, we are now with the cold water bucket of failure. Thirdly, it is fragile in the European Council because it has no strategy for the country and much less for Europe. The austerity that would balance the country only created more problems. And who in Portugal did not notice the collapse in the courts, the collapse in public schools and the collapse in the National Health Service? Mr Prime Minister, we cannot pass from today without telling you that, after the Minister of Health has been questioned today by the Left Block about the deaths in emergencies, some of which have been without medical assistance — and only answered this question at the third time — he replied that the average time for completion of the investigations is 6 to 18 months, which means that his Government considers it normal to assume responsibilities when he is no longer in office. I must say that health is the image of your government: destruction and escape from responsibility. But, Prime Minister, in our country, there is a lack of investment, lack of production, lack of demand, lack of wages, lack of employment, and public debt is not only increasing as, above all, we have the most serious external debt problems throughout Europe and a financial system with a debt that is also completely out of control. Well, Mr. Prime Minister can make sure it's from the race of men who pay the debts that no one believes in it! Even because, after the devastation of austerity, the country has no way. And as Mr. Prime Minister will be the first to acknowledge, if there is no money, there is no way to pay the debts. Indeed, however much interest is lowered, debt today is so large and the economy is so weak that this is an impossible equation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u210	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u211	Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that this debate is an impossible equation. We have come here to exchange proposals and ideas for Portugal's position in the European Council. But what can we expect from an discredited government that has failed in its commitments and has no alternative strategy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u212	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u213	In the Left Block, we are convinced that the outcome of the European Semester shows that the euro architecture has failed and that austerity can no longer be. We therefore believe that more answers are needed, and the answer will have to be an international conference for the restructuring of sovereign debts in the peripheral countries of the euro area and for the launch of public investment in the European Union to reject austerity and promote employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u214	Mrs. Deputy, please try to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u215	Even to conclude, Madam President, of your Government, Prime Minister, we expect nothing, but are increasingly the strong voices that in Europe and Portugal require a change. And we are working with all these forces, and we certainly have no expectations about their government, because we are very committed to this new phase that opens up in Europe and that will allow us to build new paths also in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u216	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that I am going to use a single and exclusive expression from a political point of view: I believe that the European Union is as hypocritical as the Portuguese Government, because it generates absolutely harmful policies for the economy, for employment and for debt, and then it comes to say that there are problems. Don't fall from heaven, Prime Minister! They are generated by concrete policies, by concrete policy options! And Mr. Prime Minister has already announced it: there are again the PECs, the PECs of continuity of austerity! There they are and the obsession with the deficit! And all that smells the alternative is to furnish, to remove, to discredit. In the meantime, there comes the President of the European Commission saying that Portugal is among those countries that made Greece the blackest life. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u218	This is the European film we have been watching, Prime Minister, and this is worrying, is very worrying! We are talking about many peoples of the many Member States of the European Union, we are talking about concrete people who feel this political hypocrisy of the European Union and here in Portugal, in particular the Portuguese Government too. On the matter of energy, and to conclude, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that, by chance, it was curious because of the criteria that Mr Prime Minister announced for the energy market, he did not focus only on environmental criteria. Here we have a great deal of concern about this energy market. Mr Prime Minister, the Commission is very focused on fossil fuels, opens up to the door to boosting subsidies for nuclear energy and does not focus on what is due, which are renewables and energy efficiency. Now here is a problem that Mr Prime Minister must bring to the European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u219	Mr José Ribeiro and Mr Castro have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u220	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union is experiencing moments of great danger; and the year opened with a terrible terrorist attack in Paris, which again triggered the alerts in this matter and an extraordinary summit on 12 February. So today, on 11 March, European Day in the Memory of the Victims of Terrorism, we regret that the European institutions sign it so little. The 11th of March recalls the attack in Atocha in 2004, and it is strange that, remembering by the beginning of this year, either by the attacks in Paris, by the massacres of Boko Haram, or by the scandals of the Islamic State, the European institutions sign it so little. In fact, today I have only had occasion to see a message from the European Commission, which I welcome. But it is very important that we not forget this threat that affects us and its victims. Secondly, the crisis in Ukraine and Russia is of great concern to us; and there is also uncertainty about the euro that emerged from the Greek elections. Here, I want to greet the Portuguese Government. There was great fear that uncertainty as to what would result from the negotiations between the new Greek Government and the European institutions could lead to a new market crisis. We are all reminded of what it was in 2010 and 2011 and how we unravel it. But that didn't happen now. And it didn't happen because Portugal doesn't confuse itself with Greece. Portugal has nothing against Greece, but is shielded by the certainty of its policy, by the credibility it has gained with international actors, institutions and also in markets. So it is exactly the opposite of what Mr Vitalino Canas said here. We wish Greece success, but our path and our choices is that they protect us. In fact, we are, symptomatically, with the lowest usual interest in the financing of our public debt. Greece comes with extraordinary things, the last of which of the Greek Minister for Defence, a gentleman who gives the name of Panos Kammenos, who says that «if Europe does not give in by Greeks and jihadists», that « if Europe attacks them, they will attack » and « will document all immigrants so that this human wave goes through the Schengen area to Berlin. » This is extraordinary! And part of the Greek Defence Minister, who will discuss with the other ministers the common security and defence policy! It is this government that the PS, the PCP and the Left Block here support. It is important to see how these unkind statements comment! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u221	Do not confuse Europe with Greece!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u222	Well, I know this minister isn't from Syriza. It would be said that it is the "syrice" on top of the cake, or, then, on the cake that went out to Syriza, we don't know whether it's the fava or whether it's the toast... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] But, finally, maybe the Block can clarify us. But this is an extreme gravity! Finally, I would like to refer to the Madrid Summit, which was indeed an extraordinary success and, therefore, I regret that it was worth so little attention in Portugal. I must say that, in the October Council, when Portugal gained, with a strong contribution and impulse from the Portuguese Government, the energy package, I had doubts that it could go so fast, but in fact, it has been very fast. These decisions were consolidated in the following Council; and now, at the Madrid Summit, they have taken a very important step and I am sure that they will be a strong dish also at the next Council meeting on 19 and 20 March. This also has to do with security reasons, because it is clear that unfortunately the deterioration of the situation on the eastern border and also in northern Africa increases the importance of gas supply through the ports of the Iberian Peninsula, particularly that of Sines. Therefore, the economic opportunity and interest, from the energy point of view and from the European security point of view, of our ports, particularly those of Sines, as I said, in the sense that the gas coming from Venezuela, Nigeria, Angola, or other sources can, by pipelines—is already spoken in an Iberian stream—supply the markets of central Europe and constitute an alternative to supply which only comes from Russia. This is very important, so we also welcome this value of gas, as well as the steps taken in relation to electricity and, moreover, the relations of normalisation of energy prices in the European framework. We know that our industry still complains of very expensive electricity—there has been still recent worrying news about Peugeot's factory in Mangualde. It is an effort that has been made by the government, which needs to be continued and which will obviously be much easier when the European energy market is fully functioning and the economy can operate without hiding for excessive privileges and incomes. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u223	Mr António Rodrigues spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u224	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate aims to set the position of Portugal, the Government before Parliament, so that Parliament can decide on options that are decisive for the country. And positions are decisive for the country, but they can only make faith if the country has credibility, if the country has the ability to assert its views before its European partners. over the last three years, Portugal has achieved this, not only by what it has done internally, but also by what it has done in terms of Europe itself, by what it has expressed, which it has taken on and which has been internalized by Europe as an initiative, as a capacity. This was the case, for example, in the partnership agreement, where we were the first to present a formal document before Europe, where the need for structural funds was assumed and the good these structural funds do to the national economy. The government has set an excellent example, a first example of its own initiative. As you have taken this same step, you have made this same path towards credibility before the European partners when you demanded that banking union be created, and here too, assuming that it was necessary, for the consolidation of the euro, a measure, a mechanism, a strong instrument, so that the whole of the euro building could work. Portugal has also been responsible for this and has consolidated its credibility in European terms. Now, at this stage that we are living in, from construction and from looking to the future, a strategic perspective, in terms of Country, there is an important question: in addition to what is relevant we are talking about Ukraine and the partnership to the East, it is also important to relocate the centre of European concerns more to our country. And this is done, for example, with the energy union and was done, for example, at the Madrid Summit. It is important to see, as I am proud to see, Mr Prime Minister of Portugal, alongside the French President, alongside the Spanish Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission, to discuss something that is part of a European strategy ; it is not only and only part of a national project is something that goes beyond the Portuguese border, it is something that goes beyond the Iberian Peninsula, which is to win for the first time a great geographical inhibition that exists, for which everyone in the beatings over a long time and that it is important to escape, that it is to overcome the Pyrenees and do something that can join Europe and create an alternative to the access of fuels to the East, showing Europe that it is possible to enter the Iberian Peninsula. But this is not all that has been done, it is not just in this respect that the Portuguese Government has also taken the initiative to participate. Soon thereafter, he learned to go north of Africa, join a friendly State, such as the Algerian State, which also has concerns in this regard, and build here a new strategy, a new component for this measure. And do so, demonstrating to the Algerians that it is also possible to build energy using green energy, as has already been expressed here. It was Portugal that took on this at this same Summit, responded to this concern, but did more: it built a whole! There is an energy union that is intended, there is something that is done at the Iberian level to munify Europe in terms of energy, and this is also done with our northern African partners, making possible projects that the Government has presented, within the Juncker plan, as a national strategic initiative to enable the port of Sines, to dynamize the economy of ports and how to dynamize the economy of ports, as a way to dynamize public projects that are necessarily relevant, such as those that will take this same energy from Sines to the rest of Europe. This means that we will increase exports, improve our economic capacity, our productive capacity and, above all, our projection, our position and our perspective before our European partners. Mr. Prime Minister, from Greece, I will not speak, until I run the risk of going in there as a financial prosecutor. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] So I will not enter this kind of ridiculous situation, in which some of us are reduced every day. But what is important in this debate is to make it clear, with regard to the next European Council, that we look at all European foreign policy, that we look at the strategic partnership to the East, but that we stop looking solely at the East and look at Europe as a whole. That is to say, the Eastern partnership must be included in a European neighbourhood policy, one should look at the whole of Europe and look at Europe with the concern of the four heart points: the North, with the antartic concerns and the influence on the environment; the West, with the need to look at the Atlantic and also for the development of the TTIP and of the positive that this can be for the European economy and also necessarily for the national economy; the East, we cannot stop worrying about Ukraine. But we can't stop looking at the South, to the Mediterranean. This is not just about looking at the Mediterranean as a question of terrorism, but only about looking at the Mediterranean with a problem of Libya; it is about looking at the Mediterranean in the conjugation of guaranteeing the democracies that exist there, for example, to ensure that Tunisia continues to be an example for all the States that had an Arab Spring. Let us also look at Libya, but let us look at the Mediterranean as a whole as a space that is of human dramas, where more people have already died than, perhaps, died in the conflict of Ukraine. We need to take action and that it is also included in the agendas next to the European Council that we look at this drama, that we look at the resolution, that we look together at these policies. If we look at Europe as a whole, we will only be contributing with a positive voice to continue to build Europe and to develop, in a global way, our purposes: to be one within 28, to have initiative, to have credibility, to have expectations and, above all, to have acceptance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u225	The final intervention at the end of this debate lies with Mr Prime Minister. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u226	Madam President, I shall try to answer the questions raised by the general rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, what in 7 minutes may not be exactly simple, but I will try to do so, as my obligation is. Firstly, I would like to say that the background on which we are in this European Semester is really different from the previous years, but for good reasons: because we were able to close the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. This does not mean that we have solved all the problems that the country has, as is evident. The country never said otherwise, the government never said otherwise, most never said otherwise. You can't deny the problems we have! We can be walking in order to solve the problems we have or to be walking to aggravate the problems we have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u227	That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u228	It is very important to know which direction is taken. And from this point of view, direction has been positive, because we are not exacerbating the problems we have inherited, we are solving them. It is the difference between taking a photograph at a given time, in an economy, and checking what are the problems it shows, or being watching a film, which is not just a photograph, is a series of photographs that follow in a given sequence, to find out whether these problems are going on or about. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] But, fortunately, Portugal has come to benefit from a positive reading about the direction it has followed. And when the European Commission presented its report, and as it was discussed in the Eurogroup and Ecofin, it made a positive assessment of the developments that the country has experienced in these years. Here, therefore, there is no hypocrisy or contradiction. We can not subscribe and disagree with all the comments made in the Commission's report — we are not, and we have come to say it publicly — either by reading some social data, for example, or by referring to more anemic growth, insofar as this is a growth that is in line with the register at the level of the whole euro area! It cannot be said that Portugal, from that point of view, is worse than the average recorded in the European Union. Therefore, we may not subscribe to all the analyses that are made by the institutions, but that does not mean that we are in contradiction with the fact that they point to a positive path that Portugal has been registering. The same applies to issues relating both to debt and to unemployment and to our growth potential. We cannot confuse the period in which we have been contracting the economy with the period in which we are expanding our economy. They're completely different things. Of course, there are parties that are very consistent in this area and that say « it is not worth fulfilling neither the budgetary treaty nor the conditions of governance within the euro area, because they are against the euro and therefore against this idea of European Union ». And there's a lot of consistency there, I'm not pointing at that contradiction. When Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said that it was preferable that we were not in a position to meet those criteria, he was consistent, since he said that we should not respect the budget treaty, not be within the economic and monetary union. We obviously know that position!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u229	I didn't say anything like that! You're making it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u230	Is it the opposite, sir? I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u231	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u232	I did not say today, but did not contradict the position of the Portuguese Communist Party. I think it's still the same, don't I, Mr? I believe that this position is still maintained. [[PCP protests.]] Therefore, while remaining, I think it is consistent. What I do not honestly understand is how it is possible, at the same time, Mr Vitalino Canas to say 'well, there is a problem here, because serious macroeconomic imbalances are pointed out, so we needed to reduce these imbalances' and then say 'but we want more flexibility and more time'. There is a contradiction there: either we want to reduce these imbalances and, therefore, reduce our deficit, reduce our debt, be able to have a more sustained growth, or we need to be asking for more time to solve these problems! There's a contradiction here, sir! He said it was a Portugal submission that he did not ask for more than two years to be able to leave the excessive deficit procedure. I fully agree with the honourable Member! If the European Commission had proposed it, Mr, I would tell the Commission that Portugal is in a position to fulfil its objective of exiting the excessive deficit procedure by 2015. For us, this is very important, it is exactly the opposite of what you say. It is of the greatest national interest that Portugal can leave the excessive deficit procedure in 2015. And it is important because this is the only way that we must continue to guarantee conditions of financing at lower costs, not only for the state, but for the economy, for businesses, for families. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, if we can show that we are able to achieve this goal, then I think Portugal will win, Portuguese companies will win, Portuguese families will also win. On the issue of the European Strategic Investment Fund, the so-called Juncker Fund, I would like to say to the honourable Member that his view that the European Council will approve the plan is not correct. In fact, it's not like that! The European Commission, with Ecofin, has already had the opportunity to evaluate the regulation of that plan and what will start is a debate with the European Parliament in the sense of co-legislation allowing that plan to be approved by the summer, probably in June - we hope so. The possibility of Portugal also participating in this fund, Mr President, is not yet decided. We have always said that we would expect to see the terms proposed for the operation and, therefore, for the regulation of the fund itself to make a decision. But I must tell you that there is no connection between participating in the fund and having, as you said, more influence on the decisions to be taken at the level of that fund, because exactly what the regulation proposes is to distinguish any political assessment from the technical assessment. I mean, you're not gonna decide on who put money there and the money you put there. And that is very important, because it just goes away from what you wanted to insinuate, that is, if Portugal did not put much or any money there, it could have no influence to see projects approved under this plan. That will not happen, Mr President, and yet, because Portugal has argued that there is no politicization of the decisions of this Fund. This Fund must be available to help eliminate the financial fragmentation that exists in Europe and therefore to cover projects that could otherwise not be financed, despite their merits. I shall conclude by saying the following: We know that the surveillance to which Portugal is subject results from what has been accumulated for several years. But we are reducing these responsibilities, happily! And we are adjusting so that these imbalances can be corrected in the future in a more vigorous way. As far as foreign policy issues are concerned, I would just like to say to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa that we are fully available to discuss everything about the TTIP, but we have different views from what I have already perceived: Portugal defends an increasingly open Europe to the world and therefore also to the large commercial blocs and not to an increasingly closed and protective Europe. We therefore hope that the TTIP can go as far as possible. There is no secretism, Mr President, we are fully available to discuss it clearly. On the issues involved in the statements by the President of the European Commission on the formation of a European army, Mr Deputies, I want to assure you of two things: that we have always agreed on a strengthening of the pillar of security and defence within the European Union, because it is important to ensure the security and defence of the European Union, but we are far from having any European army. But I want to tell you that I hope that the European Union will not rest excessively on the idea that we have a participation of many of its countries within NATO and that this is enough for Americans to be able to defend Europe whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u234	We also have an obligation to defend ourselves against external threats, which is not just putting this duty back in the United States of America. Finally, I would like to highlight two questions, if you will allow me. Firstly, I would like to say that Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is right: I do not mention the environmental criteria, but it is not because the Portuguese Government does not defend them! Moreover, we presented a non-paper to the institutions rightly highlighting and stressing the importance of these motivations. And we are convinced, for example, that electrical interconnections will just allow many projects, in the area of renewables, to be viable, and today they are not because we do not have the interconnections that are necessary. Mr Ribeiro and Castro, it is true that we have succeeded in Madrid, and this success has come both through interconnections, electrical interconnections, but also through the possibility of providing natural gas to Europe. Of course this is not a green policy, but we are not saying that, with this, we are contributing to adding to the turnover of hydrocarbons; we are saying that if it is true that we should have less and less weight of hydrocarbons in energy policy, although this energy mix does not have to be exactly the same in all countries, what we should have is more security in supply and better trading conditions for those who have to be consumed and who have to be consumed. Today, we are in a position to replace about 40 % to 50 % of the gas supplied by Russia and it is unthinkable that we continue to make more years than the necessary investments that protect Europe in source diversification and also in the negotiation of these sources. Mr António Rodrigues, I can no longer agree on the need not to focus our discussion solely on the issue of Eastern partnership. It is very important, but the threat to the south and therefore the policy of southern neighbourhood is also critical to the European Union. If, on the one hand, we have old problems which come back and half haunt Europe and need to be treated and we hope that they will not always be treated in the same way and with the same policies, because we would never want to lead to the same results, on the other hand, we have entirely different threats from those we have already had in the past. I said it in Algiers yesterday, and I repeat it today in Parliament: when we face those who win when they lose, we are in a confrontational logic of threats, entirely different from those we know in the past. These are completely different rules from those we see in the tensions to the east of Europe and we will have to unite a lot, without questioning our democratic values, which we need to defend, in order to find different answers that give our citizens the assurance that we will be better able to fight this radicalism and this new paradigm in which those who attack us and our institutions think they win when they lose. We all lose when it's like this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-11.u235	This concludes today's second debate. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Ministers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is no more item on the agenda for debate, we have to inform you that tomorrow's session will have the following agenda: Point one, joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 288 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Amended third Act No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, removal and removal of aliens from national territory, and of the projects of lein. 789 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Removes the golden visas from the immigration law ( BE) and 810 / XII ( 4. a ) — Regularization of immigrant and minor workers born in Portugal or attending the teaching system. of point two, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 767 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the scheme of incompatibilities and impediments applicable to local electors and extends its scope to holders of inter-municipal bodies and specific purpose associations ( BE ), 768 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the exclusivity regime of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 806 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of Deputies and the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( PCP ) and 808 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of policy holders and high public positions ( PS ). The following is point three, with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 811 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Prevents the cultivation, marketing and deliberate release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ), ( The Greens ), 784 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE) and 805 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( CFP ) and draft resolution No 1293 / XII ( 4 ). ( o ) — Recommends to the Government guidelines relating to the process of transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001 / 18 / EC as regards the possibility of Member States limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) in their territory ( PS ). In point four, we will generally have the discussion of Bill No 166 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the system of goods in circulation subject to transactions between taxable persons of VAT ( ALRAA ). Tomorrow's plenary session will end with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 7 minutes.]]
