ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with the congratulations of the Bureau, Journalists and Mr. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to give us an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication which should be adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication shall refer to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Article 7. the Statute of Deputies of Adriano Rafael Moreira ( PSD ), a electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by Ricardo Augusto Pereira dos Santos, with effect from 1 January 2015, including. The opinion is for the waiver and the replacement of the Members concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We therefore say goodbye to Mr. Adriano Rafael Moreira, wishing him the greatest happiness, and we welcome Mr. Ricardo Augusto Pereira dos Santos. Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, draft resolution No 1210 / XII ( 4 ) was also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Maputo ( President of the HR ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we will initiate today's work with a current debate under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on the situation of hospital emergencies, resulting from a marking of the PS. The frame of this debate includes a first intervention by the party of the initiative, the PS, followed by the other interventions in order of registration and finally by the Government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to take your seats, because there is a noise in the Chamber that does not allow the intervention of the first speaker to be made. [[Pause.]] To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The chaotic situation with which the country is faced daily is very serious. The main reason why the PS agenda this debate is because the current crisis in hospital emergencies is, above all, the mirror of the problems of the entire National Health Service and the consequences of the political options of this government. The news of the last few days, a little across the country, shows a frightening reality: hospitals do not have the capacity to respond to an increased demand circumstance, which, being normal and predictable, has not yet recorded the most serious peaks. The Ministry of Health was alerted. The PS, the Order of Doctors, the Order of Nurses, trade unions, user commissions and many other entities have long said that services, including emergency services, have been reduced to a minimum and, in some cases, below acceptable. If the events of the past few weeks were predictable, you knew of the cold wave, you knew of the risk of flu, which is, in fact, monitored, you knew the calendar of the parties, with holidays on two consecutive Thursdays and consequent bridges by the end of the week, long ago that the break is imminent and predictable. Services operate on a daily basis within the limits of the dedication and capacity of professionals. All is missing: doctors, nurses, administrative, auxiliaries, monkeys and medical equipment. And the Ministry should have the notion that the measures it has taken to prevent hospitals from hiring doctors and other professionals, requiring the use of service providers, would have and have consequences that obviously worsen or explode, like now, giving rise to chaos and social alarm. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The image that Mr. Minister of Health tried to sell, that the cuts and austerity in health, decided by this government, do not question the SNS, has definitely fallen by land with what is happening right now in hospital emergencies. Mr Minister, the cuts in health have costs, yes, especially when the cuts decided by you were more than twice as planned in the Memorandum of the Troika, and the results are now in sight, and unfortunately in the worst form. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lack of a strategy for the National Health Service as a whole has and has consequences that are now identified by everyone: at the base of the National Health Service, which are primary health care, when Mr. Minister stopped and gave up the reform of primary health care, reducing the opening of USF (family health units), preventing the evolution to the pay model B, associated with performance, promoting the reduction of hours of care, as announced today by ARS Norte, creating intergovernmental clusters of health centers, questioning the proximity services, Mr. Minister contributed to the current state of collapse of the SNS. in hospital care, when Mr Minister did not make the hospital reform that he promised, when he reduced the number of beds without planning, without technical support and without transparency, because the only concern was to reduce expenditure, Mr Minister contributed to the current breakdown situation of the SNS. in the back care, when the Minister invested in the continuing care network—and in the north only at this time, around 100 beds of convalescence were closed—, the Minister contributed to the current state of collapse of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When Mr. Minister complains that hospitals cannot give up, Mr. Minister, he has here part of the answer to your problem. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The situation is dramatic because of its size and its consequences, which is added, at this time of peaks, to the Executive's inability to predict and organize responses, from the outset in the definition of contingency plans. The Portuguese are afraid to go to public hospitals today. In view of this, how does the government react? Wash your hands like Pilate, and hand the responsibilities to the « institutions ». It is an attitude of hypocrisy and political cowardice! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Above all, when the Minister of Health knows that he completely annulled the autonomy of the institutions. The Ministry of Health knows well that it has placed everything under its direct dependence, from hiring a maqueiro to acquiring the maca with which it can help to move a patient. The hospital managers have been chosen by themselves, Mr Minister ; the rules they are working with have been established by you, Minister ; the guidelines they obey emanating from your services, Minister ; the responsibility, Minister, is yours and if you want to divide with someone only you can do so with the Minister of Finance, who has given much of the authority to govern the National Health Service. In fact, throughout this crisis, the absence of the Minister has been well-known, because who had to take this situation, from the very beginning to reassure people, was the Minister of Health. And one of the reasons for the PS to mark this debate is exactly the need for people to realize what is going on, and here the government has the opportunity to make commitments on what it will do to address these problems, including urgent problems, because, as you know, the peaks of greater seriousness still come there. If the Ministry has not been able to organize plans for what happened, it is now obliged to prepare for the peaks that will happen. Not being the overall and structural problem of the SNS a simple problem, the PS heard the main representatives of the professionals in the area and challenged Mr Minister, in this debate, to adopt some measures, some proposals that we have left here: it must begin by defining a health strategy that directs the intervention of the Ministry ; allow the direct hiring of doctors by the hospital administrations ; extend the hours of operation of primary health care services, acting proactively and preventively and not only in response to problems, as happened with the recent Department of Health No 34/2014, of the Under-Secretary of State, which, on 29 December only after the chaos installed, decided to extend the hours of operation of the health centres, to continue the reform of primary health care defined by the previous government, open or at least not close the continuing care units, many of them built, ready to open and wait for a decision of the Ministry of Health. Mr Minister of Health, it is in every situation that the SNS is experiencing that the rest of the government has a tragic expression in relation to health. The Government, the majority and Minister Paulo Macedo insist that the country and the SNS are better, but the reality that the Portuguese live and face evidence that health, Portuguese and Portuguese are worse. at this moment, the great urgency for the country and for the Portuguese is to change politics, it is to change government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u7	To request clarification from Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, Mr Miguel Santos. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u8	Madam President, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue up and calling for this debate, because it is above all an opportunity to demystify some of the speech that the PS has had in the last two days around the problem related to the accumulation of users in the emergencies of hospitals. And the first demystification relates to the fact that the honourable Member refers to a new problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u9	I didn't say that, I said the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u10	In fact, Mrs Deputies, this is not a new problem, it is a problem that happens, unfortunately, on a regular basis every year. In fact, it is enough to see the news: on January 4, 2011, at the Garcia de Orta Hospital, there was an abnormal increase in the number of users ; at the Hospital de Santa Maria, in Lisbon, on January 2, 2007, it was a day of chaos ; at the Hospital de São Teotonio, in Viseu, on January 30, 2007, the users stayed long hours closed in waiting rooms ; on January 22, 2007, at the Hospital de Vila Nova de Gaia, there were several hours of waiting in emergencies ; and at the Hospital de Guimarães, on November 23, 2009, there was a chaos caused by influenza A. All this to tell you what, Your Honor? at the time, you and many of your colleagues sitting on that bench were Members of a majority — and later a minority — of the Socialist Party and this was already the case. So this is not really a new problem. It is a problem that arises very simply because there are peaks of user fluency to the urgencys of hospitals and, go there to know why, these peaks, as a rule, do not happen in spring, do not happen in summer—except in a very specific region of the country— nor do they happen in autumn, exactly in winter. That is, when we have urgent organized hospitals, with average care of 200 users and, suddenly, on a certain day, the fruits of the flu, the fruits of the climate, end up showing up 300, 400 or up to 500 users, as happened in a hospital, of course there is a need to adapt response times. The fact is that this large and unpredictable increase in the number of users often causes the need to wait, as with the increase in the aging population—in fact, one of the factors that influences, in this period, is exactly the elderly population, with various diseases, which leads to emergencies and determines the need for much longer treatment, the result of these diseases—and the fact that there is a direct recourse to emergencies, in the absence of primary health care, which has also led the Government to extend the hours of operation of health centres, to respond to this need, which is pressing. In addition, doctor pickets were established, exactly for reply. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, users are extraordinarily, extra, urgent, obliged to make a clear adjustment, and this adjustment has not clearly been made as a result of the de-investment. In fact, as you know, there has been a procedure taken by this government since the beginning of the legislature: in Portugal, all available doctors are hired on the market. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u11	Therefore, the reduction of resources is the result of retirements,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u12	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u13	... but it is compensated by the hiring of doctors, and it is a situation that will end up being resolved, as a result of the measures taken. Perhaps next year, the honourable Member will be again in the opposition to raise this issue, because there are indeed some peaks that have to be answered, and that is what is happening. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u14	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. I congratulate Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, for recognizing that by bringing this matter to debate in Parliament, the PS has made it possible to clarify the Portuguese. But who had the obligation to have come to clarify was Mr Minister, who should have had a similar attitude to what he had towards Legionella, in which he came to television every day to make the situation with those responsible for it. Since Christmas, the Minister has not appeared to give any satisfaction and it has even been necessary to schedule this debate for the Minister to explain to the Portuguese what is going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I didn't want to talk about this, but I said we came here to deal with a mistification. It is good not to forget that the news says there are people dying in an emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u16	A few have already died!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u17	I do not know whether this justifies our own arrest, particularly on this subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to tell you something else: if you, for example, compare the number of December 2014 emergencies with the number of December 2013 in Amadora-Sintra Hospital, you will find that there were fewer people who went to the emergencies this year than in the previous year. in my speech, I said that this situation was perfectly predictable, because we are at a time when there is a greater influx of emergencies. And I also said that it should have been done, sooner or later, in a proactive attitude, what Mr. Secretary of State did only later, trying to remedy the situation,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u18	...trying to remedy the situation, making an order running, to take a measure that should have been able to have taken for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, the great aim of the PS is not to make these situations alarm, nor to give too much importance to timely cases that can happen and that we regret because they are dramatic; our great concern is to explain to people what is happening, to prevent the situation from continuing and giving credibility to the National Health Service, to our emergencies, because at the moment — as I said in my speech, and I repeat — people are afraid to get sick and need to go to emergencies, because what is happening is too serious, and responsibility is yours, Mr Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u19	The Bureau shall, for the time being, record the entries, to speak, of the Members. Members Carla Cruz, from the PCP, and José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens. You have the floor, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health: You see the Minister and the Government saying that this is a timely situation. It's not, it's a lie, Minister! This is a recurring situation, and the government knew about it for a long time, at least one year ago, I knew of this situation that is happening in hospitals, both in health centres and in all emergency services in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u22	The Minister and the Government are now saying that the situation stems from the lack of doctors in the National Health Service. Mr. Minister knows that it is by political choice of this government, by the measures that this and previous governments have taken, which has led many health professionals to abandon the National Health Service early. There are many doctors who have left early, who have applied for retirement, because they do not agree with this policy, and these are professionals who need the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u24	But the Minister has come to say that he is very amazed at the fact that temporary workers are not meeting their obligations, that they are not meeting the professionals with whom they had to contract. Mr Minister, you cannot claim that you were unaware of this situation. The Portuguese Communist Party's Parliamentary Group has asked you a number of questions about the cases of the hospitals of Póvoa do Varzim and Barcelos and the health centre of Estremoz, in which we gave concrete examples of the failure by these temporary workers to comply with their obligations and contracts. The Minister and the Government have been able to resolve this situation by setting up an emergency plan, a contingency plan, with the extension of the hours of operation of primary health care. Mr Minister, what I ask you is the following: what explanations — it is important for the Minister here to give them — the Government has to give us this guidance known from the Northern Regional Health Administration, which will lead to the closure of USF 30 (family health units) which have a long working time, at night and at weekends. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u25	Mr Minister, these are the issues that the CFP would like to ask you. This is a situation whose responsibility lies solely with the Government and its Minister of Health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u26	For an intervention, on behalf of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u27	I begin by greeting the Socialist Party for having scheduled, for discussion, the matter of hospital emergencies, not only for the opportunity of the matter but also for the seriousness of the problem and the consequences it is having for the Portuguese. contrary to what the Government says, notably the Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health, the chaos living in hospital emergencies has nothing to do with the increase in demand. The gentlemen. Government members know better than anyone that the number of cases dealt with in recent weeks at the level of hospital emergencies corresponds to the numbers verified one year ago and in some cases even lower than those recorded last year. Therefore, it is not true that the shame that the country is living in terms of hospital emergencies is due to increased demand. No, the causes of the situation to which hospital emergencies have arrived are different and very different, from the fact that this government must therefore remain in command of the country's destinations. This, yes, is the main cause for the chaos installed in hospital emergencies and, in general, for the state in which the health sector is located and, above all, for the situation of Portuguese regarding access to health care. In good rigour, Mr Minister, the results are not surprising, because a government that limits its health policy to blind cuts in such sensitive areas as health and the closure of health services sooner or later would not be able to hide the results of this policy, sooner or later the results of this policy would have to come to the top. And they are, in fact, there: chaos in emergencies; delayed surgeries, due to lack of doctors and beds; overcrowded nurses; patients waiting 22 hours to be cared for; congestion of services; patients piled up in emergencies, due to lack of beds, to be hospitalized; absolutely unqualifying and unacceptable waiting times; ambulances of firefighters held in emergencies, due to lack of beds; and even patients who die while waiting to be seen. Mr Minister, this is called 'knocking'! In fact, it is not because of the increase in demand, but because the government continues to invest in the National Health Service; to impose limitations on hospitals so that they may be able to hire early health professionals; to resort to temporary work, promoting precarious work and work without rights; and to insist on the containment of costs and the closure of immense services, which could help to avoid congestion that is occurring in the urgents of hospitals. I remember Mr Minister, at the beginning of the Parliament, saying in the House that he closed services to improve access to health care by the Portuguese. Mr Minister, the result seems to be quite visible now! In fact, everyone is witnessing that there is only one possible conclusion to draw from what is happening in hospital emergencies: the government is not able to place the emergency services of hospitals responding to the needs of the country. The government's health policies have failed all along and the minimum we could expect from the Minister today was that he actually recognized that government policies are turning hospital emergencies into real chaos. This was the minimum required of the Minister of Health. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u28	The Bureau took note of the following entries: Members Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP and João Semedo, BE. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health : I would like to begin by reaffirming, on behalf of the CDS bench, the total confidence in our National Health Service, its professionals and the way in which the guardianship, through Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, has ensured the sustainability and continuity of the National Health Service, that we are all proud of. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u30	Having said this, it is clear that we deeply regret the deaths that have occurred and express our condolences to the family members and to the neighbors of the people who have died. There is a very important issue here, on which I have not yet heard any of the elements of the opposition say: the importance of the investigations which were immediately instituted to know what really happened. It is very easy to launch suspicions, to launch alarmism, to invoke chaos in error and law, as has been done, in particular by the Socialist Party, which held this debate. The fact is that it is important not to draw hasty conclusions, to wait for the outcome of these investigations, to draw out the appropriate ions and to correct any errors that have occurred. With regard to the predictability of peaks, I have to say that it is clear that this predictability was known both to this guardianship and to the protection, for almost seven years, of the Socialist Party. And that is why there are still, here and there, situations of crisis and excess and also lack of professionals to respond to needs. Despite all the measures that can be taken to safeguard the foreseeable peaks of access to emergencies, there is always imponderable — as in our lives — that cannot be guarded, for example, by the lack of doctors for illness. [[Yeah, sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u31	It is enough to record the lack of half a dozen doctors so that the whole system, the whole structure of a unit, which is interconnected, will not be able to meet all needs. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u32	I would also like to say that, in fact, it is not acceptable for people to wait for 6, 8, 20, 22 hours in an emergency service. But these are shortcomings that will certainly be guarded. Is our SNS excellent? Is it perfect? It's not! But if any Member of Parliament knows a perfect health service in this world, I would like to thank you for telling us what it is. Then they point out that reality is new. We all know it's not. Members of the Socialist Party know perfectly well that this reality is not new. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u33	I'm saying again that we all regret these deaths in emergency services. No one would want them. however, I would like to ask: why do you schedule a current debate on these occurrences — I say again, which are regrettable and dramatic — and do not schedule a current debate to talk about the increase in primary health care, emergency care, hospitals that were removed from the bankruptcy situation in which they were, as you well know, we inherited from the Government of the Socialist Party? Why do they not schedule current debates on the increase of external consultations, the increase of scheduled surgeries, the increase of outpatient surgeries, the drastic reduction of waiting time for surgery, the extended hours of operation of primary health care, the increase of users exempt from moderate rates? We have almost 6 million users free of moderate rates and we have an increase in the order of 3000 inmates. Why didn't you guys do anything? You know that doctors don't train in three days or in three years on average take 11 years to be trained. Why didn't you do anything to train more specialists, and more specialists in general clinics, in general family health? Why do you not schedule urgent debates to talk about the increase in the hiring of doctors, which has been of the order of 1700 in the last three years? Why don't you schedule current debates on these improvements in the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u34	Why isn't Mrs. Deputy scheduled? It has the same power of initiative as us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u35	Finally, Madam President, I deeply regret that the opposition parties do not recognize that the National Health Service is clearly better than it was three years ago. The National Health Service was rescued from the bankruptcy in which many hospitals were located. And excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the opposition, you are using human dramas to make political and party complaints. But the health of Portuguese is much more important than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u36	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u37	And you, who have individual and collective responsibility, should not use personal and human dramas to make political and party disputes and "horse the wave" [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u38	Mr John Semedo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Everything we are discussing today was predictable and avoidable. Mr Minister, I would like to start by recalling your words on December 19, since you, on that day, of the few times you spoke about what is happening, said: "I have no doubt that, as in all other years, there will be a response from the National Health Service. Do not keep on seeking. ” The question I ask you today is: who did you want to fool? Or who wanted to fool you? Because today we can say that what you said on October 19 is completely different from what we are checking.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u41	Minister, why was it predictable and avoidable? It was predictable and above all avoidable if your policy was not exclusively determined by court and saving, because in reality you preferred saving rather than strengthening the response mechanisms of the National Health Service. Mr. Minister, don't come with the excuse for the seasonality of the flu! The problem is not in the flu, nor in the seasonality of it. The problem is that your policy, you and the effects of your policy are not seasonal, they are permanent and we stop them all year round! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Minister, your responsibility is enormous in these cases. The first known death in an emergency service occurred in November 2013. And what did you do? First, he refused to order the investigation and accepted an expertise from the hospital. It was denounced that this expertise was a lie, but among so many lies some truths were known. We heard what the report says: "The patient came in at 17 hours; she was given a yellow bracelet; the maximum attendance period was 60 minutes; it was observed by the doctors at 23 hours and 3 minutes", that is, six hours later — six times more than the expected waiting time. And what does the report of such an expert say? It says it was found that the assistance provided had been the most appropriate. How do you accept an explanation of these? You know, you shut up and allow these cases, because you have lost political authority, because you lose political authority every time you withdraw autonomy from hospitals, you lose political authority every time the guardianship — and that is your case — inhibits administrations and professionals from acting in the best way. This is your responsibility. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to say the following: your policy can save many euros, but it does not save lives. And the first responsibility of the National Health Service, its first responsibility, is saving lives, is saving lives. That is exactly the function of the National Health Service! You and the government have been negligent and irresponsible. The last question I leave to you is: what tragedy is you waiting for to change politics? What tragedy must happen in the National Health Service in order to correct your policy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u42	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this speech, I began by answering perhaps for the end, since the Socialist Party, which, in fact, held up this debate, made concrete proposals. Therefore, I would stop-CL - more precisely about the intervention of this party. Despite trying to divide my response into two parts and having only three minutes in this first intervention, I will return to the concrete proposals still in the final part. I wanted to make a clarification: on December 24, on Christmas Eve, I was in the urgency of Santa Maria Hospital, which was totally quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u44	Go to the suburbs, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u45	on January 1, I was in the urgency of the Hospital de Guimarães. As mentioned in December, I was with the honourable Members. State Secretaries in 8 hospitals precisely to prepare the winter. We were at Amadora-Sintra Hospital, with its administrations and with its clinical directors and emergency managers; we were at Garcia de Horta Hospital, at Barreiro-Montijo Hospital, precisely in hospitals that may have more complex situations. Turning specifically to the questions, Mrs Carla Cruz referred to service contracts, which Mrs Luísa Salgueiro also put. It is worth recalling that service provision contracts fired at the Socialist Party Government, with Prof. Correia de Campos, with a need detected. Just as the government has committed itself to the trade unions, which are based on the Social Balance and is totally unequivocal, contracts in services have been reduced every year, in the same way that reduced precariousness and increased the hiring of professionals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, when we talk about resources, it is good to turn off a hard drive, or a tape, or whatever we want. The Ministry of Health is the largest Portuguese contractor and hired over 2500 doctors in liquid terms in this period, compared to 2010. This week, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you hired 1700 doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u46	That's not enough, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u47	He hired 1000 nurses in 2014, almost twice in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u48	The recruiters don't cover the ones who went out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u49	Therefore, as far as we are concerned about reducing the provision of services, we agree with the fact that we are also agreeing to recruit professionals for an indefinite period of time. But it is not just a matter of agreement, it is a matter of concrete acts. With regard to the question put by the honourable Members. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr João Semedo, the means we have put in the National Health Service have no parallel: in these years we put EUR 3000 million in hospitals — we, that is, this government — have removed all hospitals from technical bankruptcy. This is the inheritance we will leave, contrary to what we receive. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, I have already exhausted the three minutes I had, but we will certainly be able to discuss some of these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : You cannot rule by means of means, or by statistics, at a time when reality is very difficult for Portuguese people, for people who are most vulnerable. We all know that reality, in recent years, for various known reasons, has been very hard for the Portuguese. Mr Minister, this situation involved measures not of appeal, but measures of an established policy. And what Mr Minister and this ministry have done is they have resorted to timely action. And then we have this result. Unfortunately, situations that are timely — and we hope that they will continue to be punctual — are already reflected and are a consequence of the erratic policies that Mr Minister has followed. The transfer to the private sector is evidence, Minister. People with more resources can resort to private emergencies and there do not wait 22 hours, do not wait at least 1 hour. Mr Minister, this is a reality, which I think you — which I consider to be a sensitive minister — must consider. And you must ask for solidarity with the Minister of Finance, who seems to send me to the Ministry of Health. Mr Minister, the taskmasters are running away from emergencies, the use of professionals who do not belong to the teams has never been a good measure, and continues to prove it. In fact, the USF model was created to respond to all its users at the time they need it, but this Ministry has limited its growth. Why, Minister? With regard to the continued care of the community, I know that Mr. Minister was recently in Guimarães and said he was going to speak with Mr. Minister of Social Solidarity to have an answer to the cases of discharge of hospitals. But the answer exists, Minister: it is the continuing network of care. Why isn't Mr. Minister acting? Why does Mr Minister, who has everything at his disposal, not command, not decide? Mr Minister, today's news says that health centres will close at night and at weekends and that the North ARS — this has already been asked here, but as Mr Minister has not answered, I reiterate the question — will end with the extended hours in several USFs from 1 February. I leave only this question to you, Minister: do you think that, according to this scenario, we lack resources and we need to invest in human capital, this measure is reasonable? On 1 February, Minister? Oh, my God! Considering that the Minister is a responsible person and that he has social sensitivity, I ask him only to be able to make an investment in human capital and not follow the erratic policy he has followed. I know that the Minister of Finance has imposed a discipline that has at nothing favored health, but, Minister, health cannot impoverish, it is not a sector like any other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health : It is unacceptable for the Minister to respond with mystification and demagogy to the difficulties of the patients.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u55	It is important to explain, Mr Minister, that these 1700 doctors who said they were not fully employed doctors, are doctors who will start their boarding school, their training in the specialty, who do not have autonomy and need supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u57	Mr Minister, it is important to explain that the reduction in the provision of services is not the same as the reduction in the recruitment of temporary employment firms. Mr Minister, it was important that you explain this and not come with demagogy and mystifications. Mr. Minister and Mr. Member of the Government, the chaotic situation found from north to south of the country in the emergencies of the various hospitals is not, contrary to what the Government has said, a timely situation. The chaos has been in the hospital emergency services for a long time, and you know that. For many months, users have been waiting for several hours to be cared for in hospital emergencies. More than a year ago, you know that this happens, because of your responsibility and decision, when you reduce professionals and close services. It is known that more than 60% of the situations resulting in emergencies could be resolved by primary health care. And why are they not resolved by primary health care, Minister? Because the government, rather than bet on strengthening this level of response, comes to the conclusion of proximity services, health extensions and permanent care services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u59	The situation of hospital emergencies has profound and diverse causes, all of which are based on the political options that successive governments, and particularly the current one, have continued — a policy of attack and de-investment of the National Health Service, which results in the reduction of professionals and material conditions to respond to the needs of the populations, the closure of proximity services, the degradation of emergency services in hospitals, the drastic reduction of the number of beds in public hospitals and the lack of professionals. Between 2010 and 2013, according to the official INE data, they retired from the National Health Service 1050 primary health care physicians without being restored by government decision. Once again, the reality contradicts the government's propaganda and exposes the demagogy it has done around the admission of more doctors, because the number of new doctors does not even cover the exits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u61	The policy of de-investment and attack on the National Health Service lies in the economic policy and cuts that the government has carried out with the reduction of funding to the SNS, but also in the transfer to the private of health care. in the last four years they cut 2, 3 million euros to the SNS, and in 2015 the government imposes another cut of 100 million euros. But the favor of the private, that, continues. In 2012, public hospitals accounted for less than 4, 8 % of emergencies than in 2010, while in the same period private hospitals had 6, 5 % of the total attendances, resulting in an increase in this sector of 11, 6 %. Your health policy may satisfy the interests of the private, but it is condemning thousands of Portuguese deaths in advance. This policy of destruction of the National Health Service must be put to an end. It is necessary to put an end to this policy that every day prevents thousands of Portuguese people from accessing health care and seeking to save at the expense of the lives of the same Portuguese people. We need to defeat this government. We must defeat this right-wing policy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u62	You have the floor Mr. Minister of Health for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, I did not answer directly to the question about North ARS, but I thought the question had become very clear. The North ARS has already denied the news from the newspaper, but I would like to state here in Parliament that it will not close any proximity service and that — obviously, it will not be during this period – if this happens again, it will only be very well explained what the advantages are. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u64	So let us be very clear: throughout this period, indeed, this news has already been denied by North ARS. This is not going to happen and, on the contrary, we are going to strengthen the ACES ( health-care centres groupings). I'd like this to be very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u65	What about ARS convalescence beds?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u66	Mrs. Carla Cruz, when she says that there are fewer doctors than there were... [[PCP protests.]] Of course there isn't! To say that is a total ignorance, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the same ignorance as comparing emergencies in private—when there are no emergencies in private, there is only permanent care—with urgency in the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u67	It's official data!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u68	It's a lack of information. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u69	Mr John Semedo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I am glad that you still have one minute, Minister, because you cannot leave this debate without telling the Portuguese whether you will insist on saving or will finally reinforce what needs to be reinforced. Mr Minister, we are not wrong: all this problem, all this collapse, all this chaos—we call it what we call it—which is being verified in the hospitals of the National Health Service, particularly in the emergencies, occurred when the epidemic had not even begun. The epidemic started a little while ago and will have its peak at the end of this month, so everything will be worse. So, Minister, I ask you once again what you are going to do. Mr Minister, as far as you have done, we understand that it is true that you put EUR 3000 million in the National Health Service to pay debts. But you know what's extraordinary? It is that the debt is almost the same today as the one you say you will pay. It seems that Mr. Minister is finding it funny what I'm saying... the country is not going to find it funny when you are no longer in this position and your replacement comes here to say what debt you have left. Because we all know that debt today is very close to that value, and you know that. We also talk about other measures that are even more important. Mr Minister spoke of a series of things that would naturally happen even if there was no Minister of Health. What wouldn't happen if Paul Macedo hadn't existed is what I'm going to tell him now. You don't know that hospital administrations have closed down services and reduced beds? And don't you know that was done in your own order? Don't you know that this country has been reduced by the night services of health centres? You don't know how many thousands of doctors the ARS and the administrations have prevented you from going from 35 hours to 40 hours, allowing each of these doctors to have another six hours in emergency services? And what did you do to stop the early reforms? Finally, since you are talking about measures, it is very simple to solve the problem of metropolitan emergencies. Look at the country, look at the cities, look at the hospitals, see where there are problems and you will see with great clarity what the question is: where there are medical-surgical emergencies or polyvalent emergencies there are no basic emergencies and the people, Portuguese, users, patients have no place else to resort than the supersophisticated hospitals. You're going to be in government for four years, you've spent three years and you haven't done a single reform. That was the reform I should have made! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u71	You have the floor Mr. Minister of Health for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to mention two very brief questions. First of all, it is not true that there has been no planning.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u73	If there was, it's even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u74	We had the biggest vaccination plan for the flu that there is history in Portugal. We have more than 1, 5 million people vaccinated, which has no parallel. We made and made available on the Internet in good time — and updated, contrary to what happened in a few years — the winter plan, which was prepared by the Directorate-General for Health, together with a global plan. We also asked for and looked at the winter plans, which are left by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the hospitals themselves have. As I said, we met with the hospitals, we met with the ARS, strengthened the Health Line 24, we authorized an unparalleled number of resources in the months of September, October and November, i.e. we authorized more than 300 contracts only in these months precisely to be able to guard the winter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u75	They authorized it, but they didn't get into service!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u76	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try, in the two minutes I have, to give some clarifications. More: by means of an amendment in the State budget, we have succeeded, by means of the legislation which you have adopted. Members have approved, being able to have more flexible legislation, which will allow hospitals to contract more easily and give them greater autonomy, which, as we all agree, hospitals must have. In terms of measures, we will again open a competition for general and family medicine doctors open to all specialists, i.e. again, we will hire doctors outside the National Health Service, as we have already done, so we will hire all available doctors in Portugal ; we will open a contest for hospital specialists in some areas lacking, once again hiring private sector doctors and doctors from all the specialties that are needed in the National Health Service so that there is a reinforcement, in particular of anesthesia, radiology and urology. We will also remodel emergencies that simply do not have the capacity, such as the cases of Amadora, Caldas da Rainha, Barreiro, Coimbra and Gaia. And this after what we've done in Portalegre, Figueira da Foz, at Garcia de Orta Hospital and in Faro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u77	They're gonna do more now than in the last three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u78	The Health Line 24 informed us that it will open a call center in Coimbra to hire more nurses, precisely to respond to the request due to the increase of hours. We will extend the hours of operation of health centres and we will also resolve in a much more intense way the number of social cases, which was abnormal at the time. Let's step up...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u79	Come on, come on...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u80	Exactly, it's a set of measures! Regarding the number of continuous care beds, during this period there was an increase of 1500 continuous care beds and we hope to increase this number this year, with more than 500 beds. We are doing the financial consolidation of the institutions, we will leave the institutions without being in technical bankruptcy, which will allow them to make commitments in a completely different way, hire in a completely different way and have greater autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u81	It's gonna be really good! Only promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u82	We are speeding up the recruitment of professionals, as was seen at the end of last year and more than 500 people have been hired in the last five months. In addition to the 1700 doctors hired this week, we will hire an equivalent number of nurses. in the background, we will reaffirm that we will continue to be the most recruiting entity in Portugal and that it has managed to increase the number of doctors at a time when there was a reduction of tables in the Public Administration, we will be able to recruit more 1700 nurses this year, and above all, we leave hospitals in a situation totally different than what we found. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u83	Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at the end of the debate and there is one aspect that we believe is absolutely unacceptable to bring you into this gallery and use it as an argument for debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u85	Gallery is up there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u86	This is about using the death of some people as a political weapon and how to politically instrumentalize the debate, and this has been done in particular by Mr John Semedo of the Left Block. It is worth asking whether you know what the cause of death is, whether the screening has been badly done or whether it has been well done, whether or not there has been negligence. It is a lack of respect for the families themselves that you want to remove dividends from these dramatic cases and political dividends. [[PSD applause.]] Do not laugh, Mr, because you have no rigorous joke, you have no rigorous joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u87	I laugh with applause, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u88	What you are doing and that is recurring — because you have not done so just today, already done so several times before — can be called a necropolitic. Mr. Deputy is a necropolitic! Using people's drama to instrumentalize and attempt some kind of political gain is absolutely regrettable and we do not accept it. Another argument that you have used was that this abnormal emergency procedure has nothing to do with seasonality and flu. Mr President, it is therefore to be asked why in the other months of the year there is no such abnormal flow of urgency in Portugal. Exactly because it is seasonal, it has to do with the climate, it has to do with a special period in which people are indeed more sensitive. [[PCP protests.]] More: another argument used here was that of disinvestment. in this case, the reality does not match the discourse that you use, because during these three years new hospitals have been opened throughout the country, which can be stated and are more than known.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u90	I will finish, Madam President. In addition, investments were made in the hospitals themselves, such as Moimenta da Beira, Figueira, Leiria, Faro, Penafiel, Hospital Garcia de Orta, Hospital Santa Maria, Coimbra, Portimão, Gaia, Braga. They are investments made in emergencies exactly to improve the form of Portuguese health care. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to doctors, in Portugal are hired all doctors who are available to enter the National Health Service, all those who are available. Now, it is not possible, in certain situations, to compete with the personal options of some doctors who want to emigrate, to go abroad, because they receive 10 000 € per month. in these terms, in fact, the National Health Service has no possibility to compete with this type of offers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u92	If you didn't treat them, they'd stay here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u93	But there seems to be a case—at least, there has already been news and no one talks about it—of a different doctor, presumably future Minister of Health of the Socialist Party, they say that he seems to gain more than €10,000, but these are cases that are not acceptable, of course. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u94	The current debate on the situation of hospital emergencies is concluded. I congratulate the Minister of Health, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and the Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Health. Mrs. Members, let us continue with agenda item 2, which consists of the debate on petition No 274 / XII ( 2 ). a ) — Presented by João Joanaz de Melo and others, entitled Manifesto via the Valley of Tua, together with Bill No. 511 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Immediate suspension of the works of the Foz Tua dam ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 1206 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the works of the Foz Tua dam ( The Greens ). The debate times are two minutes for each parliamentary group. Since, together with the debate of the petition, there are two initiatives, one of the Left Block and another of the Greens, these two parties will have the opportunity to intervene first, presenting their initiatives. The debate is, as I said, together and the themes and their connection are already being presented. To present Bill No. 511 / XII ( 3. ( a ), of the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming all the petitioners and all the petitioners who have brought this important issue again to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, Madam President, I know that it is a matter of two minutes 'cause it is a local petition, but the problem of the barrier of Tua, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is a national problem and this should be addressed by this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u96	The Left Block accompanies the reasons and concerns of the Manifesto through the Tua Valley and that is why it presents here a bill for the immediate suspension of the works of this dam. The barrier of Foz Tua is an economic irrationality, never any government, this or the previous one — Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, we know as well as you are facing this dam—it has demonstrated the necessity and usefulness of the work. And you can't say it's a good project for the country and the region because it's not, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. from an energy point of view, its impact is residual, since it only contributes 0, 1 % to the country's energy, but the costs are monstrous throughout the country. The barrier of Foz Tua is unnecessary, the energy goals of the National Barrage Plan have already been overcome by existing dams. Adding to all this, we have the destruction of the Tua Line, important for the mobility of populations, the only opportunity to connect the national rail network to the high-speed network of Galicia, but also the last mountain line of the country, the most valuable from the point of view of tourism, from the point of view of regional development, from the point of view of the environment. How can we persist in this crime, which is to end your line through this huge dam? So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block, as always, manifests itself in the need to take a courageous action that one day has to be taken and that today can only be to stop the construction of the Foz Tua dam. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u97	To present draft resolution No 1206 / XII ( 4. ( a) The Greens have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to greet all the petitioners who once again force the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the nonsense that is the barrier of Yours. I begin by saying the following: whoever says that your dam has only private investment. The dam benefits from public subsidies of millions of euros from Portuguese taxpayers and consumers, and it seems, Mrs and Mrs. Members, who, under the Juncker package, the government wants more money for dams and new dams. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that your dam is totally useless in the Portuguese energy landscape, it represents no more than 0, 1 % of the energy contribution to the country. Nothing, absolutely nothing, comparable to the result that could come from an effective energy efficiency policy. Conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members : you are defining a very rich heritage, such as the Valley of Yours, the Railway Line of Yours, the High Douro Vinhateiro, you are killing yourself an immense heritage for the development of the region for what? To build a dam to benefit EDP, dam that goes towards the Portuguese, as we have already mentioned, and that will also impact the erosion of the coast. They have walked all summer so worried about the coast and here is another ashtray focusing on the erosion of the coast, weakening it even more with a work that does not serve strictly for anything. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As if this was not sufficiently serious, EDP violates the conditions of the environmental impact declaration unbelievably, either at the level of mobility, in which there is no alternative to your railway line, either at the level of the high voltage line, in this case also violating UNESCO's own recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely unacceptable. What the Green Party proposes in this situation is that the construction of the Foz Tua dam be immediately suspended, in order to immediately seek to find out the result of the difference between what EDP was forced under the contract and the environmental impact declaration and what is in fact fulfilling and with this we will notice that the difference is abissal. On the other hand, it also proposes that the construction of the Foz Tua dam be suspended immediately, in order to try to understand what has not been studied, i.e., to know the impact of this medieval work on our coastline so that we do not always go wrong and then take our hands to the head for things that we could effectively avoid. Therefore, Madam President, before the ashtray that constitutes the work of the Foz Tua dam, The Greens re-submit a proposal for their immediate suspension and we appeal to the sensibility of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for this purpose. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u99	The two initiatives, the Left Block and the Green Block, are presented. I remember that petition No 274 / XII ( 2 ) is also under consideration. ( a) on the Manifesto through the Valley of Tua. A number of speeches from the parliamentary groups are followed. Representatives are already registered. To speak for the PS, Mr Mota Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject, let us see some facts. Portugal is currently exploiting only about 46 % of the economically viable potential when most EU countries with relevant water resources already exploit more than 80 % of their hydropower potential and countries with higher growth in wind energy already achieve more than 90 %. in the framework of the definition and implementation of the National Program of Potential Hidroelectric Dams, which includes the barrier of Foz Tua, was evaluated the environmental component of 25 predefined sites, having been selected, through the establishment of rigorous selection criteria, 10 sites, which were considered those with lower environmental impacts and still with high hydroelectric potential. The choice of Foz Tua was made for not overlaping with any protected area or community site for the protection and conservation of nature. The implementation of the Foz Tua dam depended on a specific environmental impact study, on the issue of a favorable environmental impact declaration, conditioned under their environmental impact assessment procedures, and on the verification of the full compliance with the conditions imposed by the Water Framework Directive. Being the mouth of yours in the pile of dams such as Crestuma, Regua or Carrapatello, the impact on the erosion of the coast is practically null or dissipating. The importance of Foz Tua lies in the potential for energy storage on its album and that its assessment should be made by its economic value and not simply by the percentage of energy produced. This use will use endogenous resources, either in its construction or in its exploitation, in direct competition with alternatives based on fossil-sourced energies, thus reducing the energy import needs...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u101	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u102	... and reducing the external deficit, with clear economic, social and environmental benefits. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without prejudice to the necessary safeguard of heritage, natural and landscape values — I repeat, without prejudice to the necessary safeguard of heritage, natural and landscape values — we must promote the continuation of the construction work of the hydroelectric use of Tua Foz, allowing this important infrastructure to be at the service of the Portuguese as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u103	by the PSD, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also welcome the petitioners present in this Assembly of the Republic and I would like to leave a word on the new discussion concerning your dam. This is a subject that has been discussed several times in this House, the arguments are practically the same as other discussions and we reiterate two aspects which, from our point of view, are essential. First of all, the National Barrage Plan, launched by the previous Government, pursues an objective which, from our point of view, is worthy, i.e. to contribute to reducing expenditure and, above all, to reducing the country's energy deficit, using what are natural resources. Of course, the implementation of this Plan has not always been done in the best way and there are options and projects that deserve our part repairs and criticism. The case of your dam is an example from this point of view, in that, when the decision was taken, the question of conservation and, above all, the safeguard of the status of world heritage of the Douro was not guaranteed. The previous government did not proceed as it should with UNESCO to ensure the safeguarding of this heritage. We have already said so in due course and at this point we continue to say that this safeguard is essential. As it is essential to ensure that the provisions of the environmental impact declaration, whether on conditionants or on compensation to the region, are ensured. And, Mrs Deputies, the proof of this concern was the decision of the Minister of the Environment to inspect the work in the dam and, more importantly, to comply with these conditions and these compensations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u105	What about the results? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u106	The results of this inspection are not yet known. [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]] Madam Member, why do you think it is strange that the results are not yet known? But does the honourable Member want to violate the law and do not want to respect the administrative deadlines for carrying out these proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u107	What a violation of the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u108	Do you want to make a decision without knowing the same results? Mrs Deputy of the General Environmental Inspection,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u109	I'm desperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u110	... mistrust of the structures and bodies responsible for carrying out these investigations? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] We still live in a rule of law and, as such, we must respect the procedures that are in place in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u111	This is a decision without right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u112	I conclude by saying that the Government will not fail to take into account the results and consequences of this assessment. That is how you must be in a rule of law which respects the mechanisms and instruments of that same rule of law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u113	We moved on to the CDS-PP intervention. Mr. Hélder Amaral, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed a matter that we have discussed in Parliament many times, also the result of the initiative of a group of citizens, and I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and saying that they deserve a serene, enlightening debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u115	And seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u116	... and seriously...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u117	It's true! And seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u118	... which Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, in spaces, has been doing—and even some pedagogy on the subject needs to be done. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I would say that there are no guarantees, there can be no guarantees of zero environmental impact on the construction of a dam. Therefore, the decision to build a national plan of high hydroelectric dams obviously had to have, for the specific case of your foz, different environmental impact studies — I expected, and I believe, more rigorous,... [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]] ... taking into account the environmental impact in a specific region of unique characteristics. For this reason, the current government, by improving the previous government's concern—and see that I am not even criticizing the previous government's decision—has been careful to know whether or not there was any damage to what is the jewel of the crown, the world heritage, which is the Douro. And there isn't. It must also be said, and this obviously deserves a word of appreciation for the professionals, that the region cannot be harmed by being supportive for the national interest, by contributing to a national plan of dams. Therefore, both in the environmental impact declaration, both in the commitments and in the compensations, it is intended for mobility to be about 3 % and 2 % for the Regional Development Agency to compensate for these damage. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] She said: « But commitments are not being fulfilled». So the problem is not the dam or its construction, but, yes, the failure to comply with the rules with which many people have committed themselves. That is another matter, and obviously we have to do it. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] In addition, there is another advantage, that much more practice and that is very positive for national well-being, for the national economy and for energy production, and that you are unaware of why you are making demagogic debates on this matter. The studies are not mine, the data are not mine, you can see them, for example, at the APREN (Portuguese Association of Renewable Energy), which says that this dam helps, for example, to solve the flows of the Douro fluents, with their storage capacity, then corrects a region's difficulty: it helps to increase energy capacity, using wind energy pumping and the use and storage of energy. That's a contribution. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] The honourable Member says that it is not decisive, that is 0, 2 %, but no, that is more than that, that is 2, 2 % contribution, and that is important. And the honourable Member, if she wanted to have a serious debate, should say that there is at least one other advantage here: she knows that if we produce more energy, and this dam will help produce more energy, this will reduce CO2 emissions, as is the concern of you and your party. So by reducing CO2, this means that 570,000 t is reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u119	Mr. Deputy, is that all with your own dam? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u120	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u121	I shall conclude, Madam President. What if we take advantage of something that this government has achieved recently, which is the interconnections for Europe — 10 % in 2020 and 15 % in 2030 — do you know that we are going to increase GDP by EUR 1100 million? Do you know that, according to APREN, we can have an increase of 22,000 jobs? I wonder if this is not a benefit that the region gives to the country, a benefit of this National Barrage Plan, and we are sympathetic and grateful to the region for that. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia could have made a serious and enlightening debate and did not want to do so. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from the PCP, BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u122	This isn't even demagogy, it's beyond everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u123	by the PCP, Mr Jorge Machado now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by greeting the petitioners, entitled Manifesto by the Valley of Tua, and by welcoming the persistence and courage of keeping this fight alive. The CFP has long defended in a framework of public management - and it is important to mention, in a framework of public management - the production and supply of electricity, the use of the country's hydropower potential. Having said this, the question is this: is this dam, at the mouth of Yours, essential for the country? What impact will the construction of this dam have on the economic fabric of the transmountain region, on the environment and on the mobility of populations justify its construction? The answer to the CFP is, without a doubt, no. Not only is it not essential for the country as the construction of the dam in Youra will have significant impacts on the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u126	Impacts on the environment — Mr PSD says the impacts are being assessed, but the construction of the dam is moving forward and continuing with the environment already threatened. Impacts on wine producers, with the destruction of soils, which may call into question the classification of High Douro Vinhateiro as a heritage of humanity. It compromises or, at least, seriously threatens the tourist potential that Tua has and that cannot be overlooked, with the sustainability it has, from an economic and social point of view. And finally, it prevents and destroys the centenary Line of Yours, compromising the mobility of the populations—a commitment made by the EDP that is not being fulfilled and the government is impatienced and serene to watch the failure to comply with this commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u128	The final question is who's interested, after all, in building your own dam. The answer is simple: it is of interest to EDP. It is a multi-millionaire business financed by the State ; it is a new PPP, with the support of PS, PSD and CDS, to finance EDP's million profits at the cost of the region, at the cost of the population, at the cost of the environment. And that, for the PCP, is truly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u130	For the CFP, what is required, Mr President and Mrs. Members, in the interest of the region and the country, is the immediate suspension of works in the valley of Tua, to safeguard superior interests which, at this time, clearly arise and which should guide the intervention of all parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, that doesn't happen. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u131	Mrs. Members, the debate on petition No 274 / XII/ ( 2 ) ends here. ( a ), entitled Manifesto by the Valley of Tua, and the initiatives related to this petition. We turn to item 3 of the agenda, which consists of the debate on petition No 373 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Presented by Paulo Miguel Correia Ferrero Marques dos Santos and others, entitled by Maintenance of the Portuguese Shoe in the City of Lisbon. As previously established, each parliamentary group has 3 minutes to intervene. The first intervention in this debate is by Mrs Eurídice Pereira. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today appreciates an initiative which has had the participation of around 5000 petitioners, who here I am taking advantage of to greet and, in particular, the first of the petitioners, a person who is particularly interested in the issues relating to Lisbon. This petition has as object the Portuguese footwear but, specifically, in the city of Lisbon. The circumstances of five of the six subjects dealing with are therefore immediately the sole object of municipal intervention in this petition. But this petition, as it was also referred to the City Hall of Lisbon and to the Municipal Assembly of the capital, has already had its way and its treatment there. It is important here, from my point of view, to say that it has reached a good end, since it is a matter which has never been in trouble, which has never been involved — the Portuguese art footwear in the capital of the country has never been threatened. Moreover, the Pedonal Accessibility Plan, which gave rise to this whole discussion, was approved unanimously in their respective bodies. I therefore regard this as the basic principle of parliamentary intervention: not to interfere in the union of matters which transcend the sphere of Parliament's competences, subject to violation of the constitutional principle of the autonomy of local authorities and the separation and interdependence of sovereignty bodies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u133	It was in view of this principle that, as rapporteur of this petition, I had the opportunity to communicate to the petitioners, at the hearing before the committee responsible, it was only desirable for Parliament to take a decision on the only point relating to Parliament's competence and that it relates to the dignity of the football profession, since, I reiterate, the rest of them exorbitate the powers of the Assembly of the Republic. We appreciate the contribution made by the petitioners to the appreciation of this world of Portuguese footwear—even though it is, in the case in which it is appreciated, almost at all, a concrete city— whose art is an integral part of national identity and must deserve our special attention. I would therefore like to express our agreement with the concerns expressed by the citizens in everything that refers to the dignity of the shoemaker profession, because this will contribute to ensuring the creation, quality and preservation of Portuguese footwear floors — in particular of the artistic footwear — which is a heritage of great cultural value and identity, never rejected. It is therefore necessary to bet on the appreciation of the shoemaker profession, since it is considered possible to admit that part of the problems affecting the Portuguese footwear reside in the wrong disqualification of this profession. And, in this field, there is sufficient room for parliamentary intervention. That is exactly why I took the initiative, as rapporteur, to suggest that the report of this petition be addressed to the Government, specifically to the honourable Members. Ministers of Economics and Solidarity, Employment and Social Security and Secretary of State for Culture, so that within their competences they can assess the relevance of deepening the qualification of a truly Portuguese profession and closely linked to our heritage. It is that this mission, if it is carried out in a thoughtful and concerted manner with the universe of national authorities, will greatly contribute to ensuring the survival of the Portuguese footwear, which, in our view, is, in summary, the greatest concern of the citizens who have subscribed to the petition we have in hand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u134	by the PSD, Mr António Prôa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing the petition for the Maintenance of Portuguese Footwear in the City of Lisbon, signed by 4692 citizens, who have already complied with the initiative. in this context, I address a particular compliment to his first subscribers who are worthy of a greeting for their active citizenship action, which, in fact, I have been personally accompanying for a long time and in which I look. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The petitioners claim that the Portuguese footwear is an ex libris of the city of Lisbon, which competes for the valorization of the public space, but that it has been the target of incorrect placement and poor maintenance, resulting in conditions of discomfort and even insecurity for pedestrians. Moreover, they claim that the City Hall of Lisbon has been replacing Portuguese footwear with another type of floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese footwear has its roots in the culture and technology of the Romans and Arabs, with still visible traces. As we know today, the Portuguese footwear dates from mid-19th century, in Lisbon, applied first at the Castelo de São Jorge, by the prisoners installed there, and then immediately at Rossio, coincident with the first application of artistic charisc, with the pattern still present today, with the designation of "Mar Largo". Rossio quickly extended its application, always with artistic charism, valuing the public space, first, in Lisbon, and then in other cities on the continent, on the islands and ancient Portuguese colonies, still present in many European cities and a little around the world, from the United States to Japan or Australia. The shoe, which began to be a lisboa, quickly became Portuguese and, today, is present throughout the world as an artistic manifestation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this petition, at first sight, could be observed as improperly addressed to this Parliament by referring to the footpath of the city of Lisbon, whose maintenance is the responsibility of the authority, although respecting the autonomy of the local power, this Parliament cannot be indifferent to an appeal for the defence of a cultural heritage that is central to the identity of the capital city of the country, but also of the whole country. If there were any doubts, the designation 'Portuguese footwear' itself confirms that Parliament's concern about it is relevant. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u136	In fact, in recent years, there has been a practice of replacing footwear with other types of floor in historical areas, the pretext of saving and improving the safety and comfort of pedestrians, but often using more expensive solutions that, in some cases, diminish the safety of pedestrians. On the other hand, an argument has been used on the discomfort of the footwear which is no longer more than to take advantage of the opinion installed, but which results from the incorrect placement and poor maintenance of the existing footwear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u138	It should be said, however, that the problems of comfort and security — even with regard to, for example, high heels — can and should be solved by proper application and proper maintenance, as well as by the creation of effective rules and supervision. Lisbon, the origin of the modern Portuguese footwear, must be proud of its footwear, which is also part of its image. Betting on the quality of footwear application and maintenance may involve new solutions that make this commitment sustainable, taking into account the scarcity of both resources and skilled labour. But these solutions must be clear, compatible with the promotion of Portuguese footwear and not implying its progressive devaluation and elimination. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese footwear must be preserved, recognizing its role in valuing the public space, promoting its tourist interest and safeguarding it, as an identity cultural heritage of Lisbon and also of our country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u139	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like, on behalf of the Group of the Green Party, to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to petition No 373 / XII ( 3 ). a ), now under discussion, through which petitioners express the desire to see the Portuguese footwear maintained in the city of Lisboa. Although this important instrument of our participatory democracy, in this particular case, I pay attention to its object but, above all, I pay attention to the recipient in terms of objectives—because what is intended with this petition is that the Assembly of the Republic provides with the City of Lisbon so that this municipality will ensure the maintenance of the Portuguese footwear in the city of Lisbon—it is a petition, I would say, singular—because it does not seem to us that the objectives of the petitioners for the noblest and fairest who can fit within the competences of the Assembly of the Republic, from the outset in respect of the constitutional principle of the autonomy of the local power— nevertheless, this petition has the merit of bringing to discussion the threat that arises about an identity factor of the city of Lisbon, especially in historical areas, which is the Portuguese footwear. As well mentioned by the petitioners, the Portuguese footwear is a central element of the beauty and luminosity of the city of Lisbon, environmentally sustainable, regulating the temperature and increasing the permeability of the soil. Moreover, the Portuguese footwear has been the subject of several interventions by the voters of the Greens Ecological Party in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, interventions aimed not only at valuing the Portuguese footwear but also at recognizing and valuing the profession of shoemaker, a very hard profession, which urgently needs to be recognized and valued. It remains to be said that the Greens accompany the concerns and purposes of the petitioners and that, as a parliamentary group, we will express our desire to see the City Hall of Lisbon fighting parking on the streets, to prohibit the placement of stones other than Portuguese footwear in the works of the public space of Lisbon, to dignify the profession of sockmaker and, finally, to create immediate intervention units of footwear, capable of monitoring the city of Lisbon daily.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u142	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who brought this petition here and say that, in this debate, the concern about the preservation of the Portuguese footwear, also known as the Portuguese mosaic, is consensual, since this same Portuguese footwear is part of the cultural identity not only of the city but also of the country. This consensus also existed in the City Hall of Lisbon, when the Pedonal Accessibility Plan was approved, which safeguards that same identity and was approved unanimously. This plan established that, in the central axes of the city of Lisbon and in the historical areas, the Portuguese footwear must be a reality and must be preserved. However, we cannot ignore the costs of this maintenance and the comfort of pedestrians. In fact, often the footwear does not have the comfort it should have for pedestrians because the maintenance cost of that same shoe is quite high. Now, there are — and there are already several aspects here — two policies that could be followed. One of them is the classification, among the Portuguese footwear, as artistic footwear, which must, this yes, and first, be preserved and considered national heritage, thus ensuring its effective maintenance and preservation. Another policy to be followed is the revitalization of the school of socks, existing in Lisbon. And in this respect, Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party, let me tell you the following: the speech of the Member of Parliament, with which I even agree on the question of socks, is shocking to what is the reality that exists in Lisbon. Perhaps, to the surprise of many of the present, including the honourable Member, because they do not follow as closely as I do these questions from the City Hall of Lisbon, there are only 13 socks for the whole city of Lisbon! I therefore hope that, with her argumentative capacity, she will be able to convince the current President of the City of Lisbon and Secretary General of the Socialist Party to revitalize the school of footballers, to open competitions and training courses for footballers in the city of Lisbon. thus, we can preserve all the knowledge existing in this school of socks, a heritage, that yes, which we must also preserve. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word is addressed to the signatories of the petition we are discussing today by the Maintenance of Portuguese Footwear in the City of Lisbon. The Portuguese footwear is an element of artistic and cultural heritage, which must be recognized, valued and preserved, as well as the shoemaker's craft must be regarded as a living profession, valued and stimulated, and not referred to a museum perspective. however, following many of the concerns expressed in this petition, we cannot fail to mention that many of these responsibilities are of local power, in which we do not interfere with the separation of powers. in this discussion, we can not fail to underline two aspects of the Portuguese footwear. If, on the one hand, it is absolutely true that the Portuguese footwear is a traditional way of tearing up the Portuguese cities, which enriches the public space and which can be found not only in Portugal but also in various places in the world, assuming itself also as an element of spreading our culture, on the other hand, poses some problems with regard to mobility, especially for people with reduced mobility, which we cannot spread. Indeed, many of these problems are due, essentially, to the lack or insufficient maintenance of the Portuguese footwear, as well as to the shortage of skilled workers, which indicates a devaluation of the public space and workers. We also see that many times more attention is also paid to the tourist areas of cities to the detriment of residential areas. The Portuguese footwear also has a great advantage as a machining solution, which is linked to allowing the permeability of the soil. In short, we believe that the Portuguese footwear should be maintained and preserved; that there should always be adequate cultural and aesthetic, obviously compatible with the need for the displacement of persons with reduced mobility; that there should be a frequent intervention plan for their regularization, avoiding their degradation, as well as the valorization and qualification of workers of this profession, the socks; and that an adequate ordination of the territory should be promoted which compatible the various dimensions and experiences of the cities, so that they are effectively for all, and that they ensure the comfort and quality of life of those who reside in them, work or simply visit, preserving our identity, culture and heritage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are no more entries on this point, we will move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the discussion of petition No 393 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Soares secondary schools of the Kings and António Arroio, asking the Assembly of the Republic to amend the legislation regulating access to higher education of specialized artistic students, together with draft resolutions 1153 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Access to higher education of specialized arts courses in visual and audiovisual arts and specialized music and dance education ( PS ), 1087 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Students of artistic education who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE) and 1199 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ). I have been informed by the Secretary of the Bureau that the question of order will be put forward. It is that the draft resolution of the Left Block has a lower numbering than that of the Socialist Party, so, taking into account the order of entry of diplomas, I will give the floor, firstly, to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, to Mrs Catarina Martins. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners, the students, the education officers and the teachers of the Soares dos Reis artistic schools, Antonio Arroio and the other schools who joined this petition. We've had serious problems in artistic schools. Today we will talk about the two public artistic schools that we have in the country: the Arroio High School and the Soares High School of Kings, which bring us to Parliament the simple demonstration of the absurd why the students of artistic education are now going through. I therefore thank the students, teachers and education officers of these schools for having submitted this petition. Artistic education in Portugal has, paradoxically, two poles: it is the best and, at the same time, the most ill-treated we have. It is the best we have because artistic education in Portugal, artistic professional education and specialized artistic schools have evidence given in the training of their students; they are schools in which students learn, in which they like to learn, in which there is no school dropout, in which the school community works, in which it does the best that there is in the country and is done with freedom, with multiple learning and with broad knowledge. It's the best we've got. On the other hand, artistic schools are also at the worst we have in the country. They are in the worst in the country because teachers are not placed and there is a complete disregard for artistic education. They are in the worst there is in the country because they have no funds and there are now artistic schools where teachers have not received wages three and four months ago, some have not received wages since the school year began. They are in the worst in the country because, as they have less and less budget, students who need materials to do their work — professional, specialized, artistic work — often do not have materials for their training. What better has artistic education, what makes the school community of artistic schools have had worse in the responses that governments have given in disregarding this competent, plural, free, learning experience that is extraordinary and that must be increased. But, well, this petition is on a concrete subject, it is more absurd discrimination: basically, the government created a rule in which students of specialized artistic education are considered second-class students, they cannot enter the university with the same rules as the others, although they are students who have the component of humanistic and scientific training of all other courses and, in addition to this component, they have more specialized training. When the time comes to think of means and exams for access to higher education, a student who is not of specialized education, a student of current education who has had a refusal in a discipline and who has 10 values in the examination, by the way the calculation is done, is ahead of a student who has 20 values in specialized artistic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u148	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u149	Let someone think it's normal for an artistic student to be so penalized when his training is of the most complete that there is in the country is an absurd! What the Block proposes is simply to repeal the giant ashtray that the government has made and, of course, we will also approve the projects that are under discussion with other solutions, because all solutions respond better than the ashtray of the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President ( Guilherme Silva ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to respect time with greater rigour. To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the PS, the associations of parents and education officers of the Soares High Schools of the Kings and Antony Arroio, authors of this petition. in its follow-up, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brings to this debate the draft resolution which aims to give it meaning and useful effect. We're starting from three budget data. First, artistic education, due to its educational virtualities, the social, economic and cultural impact it has in the country and in the communities, in the area of the cultural industry and in the continued promotion of art as a universal right of creation and profit, must be welcomed and understood in its importance and relevance. Second, specialized artistic education courses must be viewed and valued as training offers as valid and demanding as any other secondary education course, including scientific-humanistics, and constitute educational options in an equal position. Third, the overwhelming majority of students, when they choose to attend artistic education, have as their first intention the continuation of studies in higher education, which is why the regime governing their access cannot be considered of little importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u152	Here arrived and with these assumptions, it can only be accepted that the curricular and evaluative solutions defined for these courses integrate divergent rules into the confined framework of the strict need for adequacy to proven specificities. in the normative design of educational offers, it is imperative that these solutions respect, without interpretation, the principles of permeability between courses, guarantee freedom of choice, equal opportunities, proportionality and equity. Now, the problem that the petition under examination and the draft resolutions in reference well identify and characterize is that the system of access to higher education related to artistic education students, modified by this government, establishes conditions of inequality compared to scientific-humanistic courses and penalizes students through perverse conditions of difficulty, well explained in the documents subject to this debate. No technical, scientific or pedagogical principle or basis legitimizes the path of negative discrimination of artistic students. The learning and training course of these students is based on levels of equal and evident seriousness, quality and demand, which adds the dedication of more time, more work and more accountability, for example, with the proof of artistic fitness. This government's choice is based on prejudice, based on a ridiculous and untrue view of reality, of facilitating these courses, comes from the idea expressed by the Minister of Education himself in a previous situation of apparent privilege in the evaluation of artistic education students. Is it retroactive punishment? The PS does not accept that mistrust judgments, subliminary wills of minimization, precipitation of analysis, biases tendentially preconceived pollute the terms in which the regime of access to higher education is expressed, penalizing, without an acceptable basis, students of artistic education compared to others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u153	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u154	I will finish, Mr. President. Injustice is noticed. The path of discrimination is reversed. This is the meaning of the petition. This is also the meaning and scope of the PS recommendation. The majority and the Government are expected to respond to a regime that respects the principles of equity and proportionality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u155	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, I greet the teachers, students and the entire educational community of the artistic schools António Arroio and Soares dos Reis, who are in the galleries to attend the discussion, for the dynamization of this petition. We also welcome the students and the educational community of the artistic school António Arroio because of the struggles developed by the completion of the works of the School Park and the appreciation of artistic education that has mobilized parents, students and educational communities by this country outside. Specialized artistic education was erroneously integrated by this government into vocational education. And because the PSD/CDS government has an elitist and reducing conception of the possibility of continuing studies by the students integrated in this way, it has created a deeply inadequate and unjust regime, and has thus been harming hundreds of students in access to higher education. It is unacceptable for these students, for the purposes of access to higher education, to be required to take examination as external students, having to have note 10 when their curricular load and their general and specific component is exactly the same as the scientific-humanistic courses. The weight of the examination for these students is in each discipline of 15 %, while for the other students it is 3, 75 %. This is deeply unfair. In addition, these students are required to test Philosophy, while for the other students it is an option, and another of their disciplines can be performed. These students cannot choose between performing the exam to another discipline, as is the case with other students of the scientific-humanistic courses. Subsequent governments have made a path of absolutization of examinations and of devaluation of continuous evaluation, this part being an integral part of the disfigurement and decredibility of public school and the promotion of private school, in an elitist perspective of access to knowledge and culture. from the PCP, we bring concrete proposals. Specialized artistic education students should be considered internally for the purposes of access to higher education, ensuring that the examination classifications make a weighted average with the final internal classification to which they report with a final weight of 30 %. We propose to ensure that the examination of Philosophy is optional, and students can choose this or other discipline, and we propose the valorization of the artistic fitness test for the purposes of access to higher education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Maria José Castelo Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the authors of the petition we are debating today and who want to see the legislation changed that regulates the access of students of specialized artistic education to higher education. The Portuguese education system offers our students six models of educational offers in secondary education, whose rules are well defined in Decree-Law No 139 / 2012, which is properly regulated by various portals. All these offers are of their own characteristics in the organisation, operation, evaluation, conclusion and certification, and the essential conditions for the permeability of students between options are also safeguarded. It should be noted that if, at the beginning, the scientific-humanistic courses, where visual arts are also included, are the vocations for further studies, the conditions have been assured so that young people who have chosen other ways can be able to access higher education. It is clear from the legislation that, in order to complete secondary education, only students of the scientific-humanistic courses are required to carry out four national examinations, and therefore, given this obligation, the classifications obtained average with the internal evaluation of these disciplines.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u159	And?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u160	in the specialized artistic courses, students, in order to complete the course, do not need to perform any external evaluation, except if they want to apply for higher education, in which they will need to perform only two exams, Portuguese and Philosophy, which are the only disciplines of common general training between the courses and identicals in curriculum and school load, being required to obtain the minimum average, in both tests, of 95 points. in this case, to calculate the application classification, the results obtained in the external evaluation will be reflected in the total classification of the course. following this petition, different draft resolutions emerged successively. In June 2014, the Left Block, making the apology of the previous regime in force, in which recognizedly specialized artistic courses were positively discriminated against, resorted to erroneous arguments and claims, as it stated that a student who, unfortunately, obtains 9, 5 values in the exams could not continue for higher education, which is false. In October 2014 a new PS resolution project emerged, stressing the need for differentiated curricular and evaluative solutions adapted to the specificities of each course, but then appealing to the redefinition of all rules. In December 2014, the PCP, in extremities, and after the usual arguments of alleged public school attack, made an exacerbated defense of the continuous evaluation for these courses, appearing to be totally unaware that in all courses there is continuous evaluation that is reflected in the students' internal evaluations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u161	Why would it have been?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u162	Since they so strongly agree and reinforce the importance of the demand for balance and equity between courses, I ask the following question: will students of specialized artistic courses, only to complete the courses, move, like the scientific-humanistic courses, to be forced to perform four national tests? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u163	You didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS, I wanted to greet the petitioners and the parent associations of the secondary schools Antonio Arroio and Soares dos Reis. What motivated the legislative amendment carried out by the government was the promotion and equity in access to higher education for all students who want to follow the studies, they come from scientific-humanistic, professional or specialized artistic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u166	It was exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u167	In other words, what is intended, with the new rules, is to ensure that there is equality of opportunity for all students, regardless of the course they chose to pursue in compulsory education, and that there is equality between all candidates. These changes were made to correct the inequality that existed. These students were not required to take any examination to apply for higher education, with the exception of the specific tests required by the courses, while the others were and four examinations were required for the completion of compulsory education and to apply for higher education, in addition to the specific tests required by the courses. There was a differentiation that seems even unfair to us. however, the differentiation is now maintained, but injustice ends. At no time, we call into question the need and importance of this type of specialized education, which is of the few diverse offers that the State provides to students, and it is in this differentiation that is the quality of the education system. More diversity existed in the public network and better would be the teaching system. I repeat: what is at stake are the rules for access to higher education by specialized artistic students, and they claim both the petition and the draft resolutions. They say the petitioners that the students of these schools are discriminated against...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u168	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u169	... in relation to students of scientific-humanistic courses for various reasons. I will only mention two of them, which are also mentioned by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen speaking. The first concerns the fact that they have to take two mandatory exams, Portuguese and Philosophy, to access higher education, without any choice of disciplines. They claim that they should be able to choose between Philosophy and other discipline, but we do not agree. We believe that the exams, for access to higher education, should also be required to these students and, being philosophy and Portuguese the only common disciplines in all artistic and scientific-humanistic education, makes sense that these are the exams to be carried out. We also agree that, due to the nature of these courses, no four examinations are required, as in scientific-humanistics, and we also agree that students in specialized education only have to carry out the two examinations if they wish to pursue the studies, while the other students in the general scheme have to do so to complete compulsory education. The second complaint that is made concerns the classification of access to higher education and the calculation of the average exams. They say the petitioners that a minimum note of 95 points is required in exams to the students of the specialist and the others is not. But this is only half-truth, because the students of the scientist-humanistics are also required the same minimum note of 95 points in exams for the purposes of application for higher education, and this requirement is not considered only for the purposes of conclusion of the 12. year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u171	Now, as artistic students are not required to take to complete 12. the year, as is obvious, should be made to them the same requirement as is made to all students with regard to the minimum classifications for access to university. Still, it is not necessary to have more than 95 points in each test, but only 95 points in the average of the two tests they did. For all this, we do not follow up with the draft resolutions, which do not consistently argue anything that they propose, nor the petition, because the current regime seems to us to be fairer and more equitable. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of The Greens, I would like to greet the entire educational community of the Soares dos Reis High School, in Porto, and Antonio Arroio, in Lisbon, as well as to greet, in particular, all the people involved in this petition. I listened carefully to the interventions that were made and gave me the idea that what can be concluded from both the PSD and the CDS interventions is that the government has, after all, even done a great favor to these students of specialized artistic education. That's what it looks like! A very favourable regime has been created and has done a great deal of good for these students and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you come here to ask 'what are you complaining about? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a form of escape from reality, which I think is not very correct by the majority and by the Government, but for which we have become accustomed. The petition gives very clear examples of how these students, if they want to access higher education, are discriminated against in relation to other students attending courses in the scientific-humanistic area. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's worth turning your back to reality, it's worth it. So I ask: what is the conclusion that we clearly need to reach? Do you remember when, in the Assembly of the Republic, we discussed intensely the curriculum review of basic education and all that had to do with Visual Education? Do you remember how this government and this majority really came to an end in artistic education? Do you remember the profound opposition of those who love artistic education, in which, at this stage of education, they claimed the valorization of this integral component of education for citizens and you refused? They only thought that Portuguese and Mathematics were fundamental disciplines for students at this level of teaching. You remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It is then that this goes on in the other degrees of teaching, and you devalue, in any way, artistic education, it comes in which way to come. This is your conception of teaching, which is not that of integral training of individuals, it is not that of grasping the convictions and vocations of students to value the development of this country! No, it is to make it very square, very artificial, very in the logic of "I say, you learn" and rigid rules, centered on exams and not on continuous evaluation to, in particular, access to higher education. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in this sense that we consider this government to devalue public education in Portugal. We regret that the majority did not have the hombreity to verify and recognize the reason why this petition brought to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u174	You didn't understand what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u175	For a second, very synthetic intervention, given the short time available, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS wanted to say here that there is no problem in the system of access to higher education for artistic students, but we say that there are, the students say that there is and the teachers say there is a problem, which is that of discrimination and the imposition of rules that do not place themselves in the same way to the other students. There is no doubt, Mrs Maria José Castelo Branco — who seems to have had no time to read the entire draft resolution of the CFP to understand our perspective — we defend the appreciation of the continuous evaluation for all levels of education and therefore even present a proposal. Be careful with reading, because you'll have to vote tomorrow! What we want to propose is a very simple thing. We want to propose that these students can access higher education under the same conditions as the students of the scientific-humanistic courses. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think it is legitimate for these students to have the dream of wanting to study in higher education?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u177	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u178	Does a young man who makes his journey in artistic schools António Arrouio and Soares dos Reis not have the legitimate ability to study in higher education? Isn't it normal, in human life, to want to know more and learn more? [[CDS-PP protests.]] It's not for this government! That is why this Government must be dismissed in order to comply with the continuous evaluation, the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Applause from the PCP and the Greens.]] [[At the moment, there were also public applauses in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u179	You who are in the galleries have every right to attend the sitting, but you cannot speak. I would ask you to refrain from demonstrations. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next point on our agenda... Public protest demonstrations in the galleries. Please don't show up. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, let us move to the next item on our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of petition No 382 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Presented by Maria Natália Pereira dos Santos et al., demonstrating by the construction of the Odivelas Health Centre, and of the draft resolutions 1192 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a health unit in Odivelas ( BE ), 1200 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( PCP ) and 1204 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and the petitioners who, in a very significant number — more than 5100 signatures — addressed a petition to the Assembly of the Republic. This is the need for the construction of a health unit in Odivelas. As the petitioners themselves point out in their message to Parliament, it is always a promise made but always postponed. The beginning of this process dates back to 2001, but we are already in 2015 and the population of Odivelas continues in this situation, seeing itself deprived of the appropriate and necessary conditions of access to health services. It adds to this situation and worsens the fact that in June 2013 a health unit that worked in the parish of Odivelas, more specifically on the Rue dos Bombeiros, which led to the transfer of more than 30,000 users to another health unit that is far away, as is obvious, and which reduces the mobility capacity of a significant part of the population of Odivelas, which, as is known, is old. in this sense, we consider that the claims of the petitioners are fair and that this promise should in fact be fulfilled which, as I said earlier, dates back to the year 2001.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u181	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u182	I'm done now, Mr. President. in this sense, the Left Block presents a draft resolution to recommend to the Government the construction of a health unit in Odivelas and we hope that this claim of the population will be well received by all parliamentary groups. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at this point in the agenda, each parliamentary group has only two minutes to intervene. To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr David Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners here present and all citizens who subscribe to the petition, who have more than 5000 signatures. For several decades, the need for a new and appropriate health centre in the parish of Odivelas has been identified. The lack of working conditions for the provision of a quality service in primary health care and the evident physical degradation of one of the existing equipment with more than 30 000 users in a parish with about 60 000 inhabitants culminated in its closure in June 2013. Since 2001 several commitments have been made by successive PS governments and PSD / CDS, but have also been successively postponed, leaving today the users of the parish of Odivelas in a situation of unsustainable protection at the level of primary health care. It should be noted that the continued struggle and mobilization of users and populations in defense of the National Health Service, in general, and access to health care in Odivelas, in particular, forced the current Ministry of Health to recognize, through Portaria No. 307 / 2012 of 30 July, that some of the existing structures in the region of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, among which the health center of the parish of Odivelas, have proved insufficient to respond to the enormous demand in this area and with the quality required for care. This situation is unacceptable and causes serious damage to more than 30 000 users. Many are elderly and are forced to travel to the health center of the parish of Ramada, which is located at a greater distance and is not served by an adequate public transport network, in addition to the costs increased with the displacement. All of this is due to the government's failure to comply with the commitments it has made to the population concerned. Mrs. Members, we do not know whether the government has budgeted for the construction of the Odivelas health centre by 2015 because the State budget is opaque, but we know that the State budget for 2015 provides for more than EUR 1320 million in PPP or more than EUR 8.2 million in debt interest. It is obvious that the failure to advance the construction of the Odivelas health centre is a political option rather than a budgetary issue as the Government invokes. The measures taken by the current PSD/CDS Government have denied and degraded the conditions of access of users to health care,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u185	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u186	... either through closure, mergers and mergers of services and valences in hospital care, or through closure of extensions, posts and services of permanent care in primary health care. For all this, the CFP proposes the urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas, thus resumed the process with a presentation scheduled within two months of the execution of the entire work, with the opening of the public contest for the execution of the undertaking. The CFP also proposes to ensure the effective recruitment of professionals who ensure the proper functioning of the health centre of the Odivelas parish. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u187	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the need for a health centre serving the populations of the parish of Odivelas is a fact identified and recognized for several years. Its construction has already been the subject of contracts between the Ministry of Health and the Authority, although it has never been implemented, and the first programme contract dates back to 2001, where it was anticipated that until 2004 its construction would be completed. Therefore, for 15 years there have been several commitments made towards the construction of this health equipment, which, however, have been postponed, continuing the population of the parish of Odivelas completely unprotected with regard to primary health care. In addition, there is already a land assigned by the City Hall of Odivelas and a project approved by the Regional Health Administration which, in 2012, was authorized through the portal, to assume the charges arising from the execution of the respective program contract. However, until today, the Odivelas health centre has never been built, although, in this portal, reference is made to the insufficient response that some of the structures of the Lisbon and Tejo Valley health region provide at the level of personalized health care. In addition to all this, in June 2013 the government closed a health unit in the parish of Odivelas that was in need of works and without conditions, which led to the transfer of more than 30,000 users, in its vast majority elderly, to a health center in another parish of the municipality, in an steeper, further and without adequate public transport, forcing users to have increased costs with travel to this health unit. In other words, if on the one hand the government did not re-qualify the equipment, leading to its closure, on the other hand, it closed without having until today provided the new equipment with conditions and with the aggravating of the parish of Odivelas in 2013 also having seen CATUS and the public health unit disappear. The Greens, because they consider that the conditions of access of the Odivelas populations to health care should be respected and ensured and because they consider it unquestionable that the construction of the Odivelas health centre is a necessary infrastructure which will mean a considerable improvement in the quality of life of the populations of the parish and the municipality, present their legislative initiative, which, in our view, meets the claims of the petitioners, which I, on behalf of the Greens, wanted to welcome here, also greeting the More Health movement of Odivelas, which was involved in the presentation of this important petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u189	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake here is the absolute need for the construction of the Odivelas health centre. It is a health center that, as has already been said, has been promised for several years. But we do not speak of any health centre, we speak of a parish that has 60 000 inhabitants, the third largest parish in Portugal and has an obsolete health center with the difficulties already mentioned here. I belong to a parliamentary group of a party that has governmental responsibilities, I would like to say that we are not creating false expectations here, but we consider that this need is vital and that conditions are created for the new health centre to be a reality. The land has already been sold in time and the architectural projects have been offered by the City Hall of Odivelas. And let me make a special reference to the action of the House of Odivelas, which over the years has tried to replace the central power, the power of the State, with the concern to fill the needs of the inhabitants of this parish, who have gone through many constraints, both of accessibility and of the need to use transport, which are an increased expense to have access to health. We therefore believe that these draft resolutions have appeared in good time and that we have all the conditions to be able to fulfil this commitment, and that only the political will is lacking at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u191	For an intervention, Mr. Conceição Caldeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 382 / XII, signed by more than 5000 citizens, who have already welcomed and praised the demonstration initiative that they are attentive and participatory citizens. I also greet the Vice-President of the City Council of Odivelas who is present at the sitting. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u193	This petition advocates the construction of a health centre in the parish of Odivelas. As it could be, the claim of petitioners deserves greater weighting, because the existence of an adequate network of primary health care services within the SNS is of course a necessity. This need that is not discussed and to which the Ministry of Health has given the highest priority, despite the financial difficulties that the country still faces. So much so that the need to build a health unit in Odivelas has already been identified by the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, being ongoing contacts between this ARS and the municipality of Odivelas in order to create conditions that allow the rapid realization of this important investment. The PSD Parliamentary Group unequivocally supports the construction of the health centre in Odivelas, to the extent that there will certainly be an improvement in the accessibility of residents in that municipality to the health care of the SNS. [[Protests by MPC Members David Costa and BE Helena Pinto.]] We are also convinced that the construction of that new health unit will allow better working conditions to be brought to health professionals, which will enable them to be more efficient. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u194	And that is precisely why the PSD Parliamentary Group strongly supports petition No 382 / XII and can not fail to consider manifestly extemporaneous the draft resolutions submitted,... [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u195	... since the government is already working for the construction of the new health centre in Odivelas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u196	Hello? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u197	Nevertheless, we will try to make those who appear positive to us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u198	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet the petitioners, some of whom I have known for many years and with whom I have had the privilege of working. Regardless of ideological differences, I am grateful for all that they have done to demonstrate the interest in Odivelas and all that they have done to improve the conditions of this population. I know the Odivelas council and its population, which I am proud to have served, and I recognize — and the CDS too — that it is a municipality with a high population density, with a high number of elderly people, with increased needs for health care, particularly in the context of primary health care, in support of chronic diseases and in continuous and palliative care, where the Odivelas council is proud, and well, to be pioneer. We also know from the reality that 41% of the population of Odivelas is in the parish of Odivelas. Recognizing also that there are problems of access, we cannot, in favour of the truth, fail to point out the recent investment in the geographical area of Odivelas in the ACES Loures / Odivelas with two new structures that replaced other rather expired ones and that they were not in a position to serve decently the populations. This investment is from this government and represented the largest investment of the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley in 2013. We would like to stress that steps should be taken to advance the construction of the Odivelas health centre, in addition to what several groups have pointed out and what we also know is the concern of the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, which has already identified this need and has maintained conversations with the municipality of Odivelas to enable us to move forward with the construction of this investment. Odive them, in our view, has not therefore been ignored, regardless of the problems we recognize and point out here. We understand that it is fundamental in the good management of public money to harmonise investments in different municipalities for different populations and this can justify different timings. We will follow this process and we will fight so that in Odivelas we can improve citizens' accessibility to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u200	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u201	I'm done now, Mr. President. I stress the working conditions of professionals, to whom I also greet and to whom I acknowledge the commitment to, under conditions often difficult, have kept the service to the population. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u202	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for speeches on this point of our agenda, so we will move on to the following point, which consists in the assessment of petition No 397 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Antonio Joaquim Pereira Curvo Lourenço and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the immediate reduction of municipal property tax ( IMI), together with draft resolutions 1196 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government justice measures in the economy for municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE) and 1205 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the revision of the Code of Municipal Property Tax in the light of criteria of greater fiscal equity and social justice ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet all the petitioners and all the petitioners, who again bring to Parliament the debate on municipal property tax. The petition before us has two fundamental aspects: on the one hand, the reduction of the IMI to the minimum rate and, on the other hand, a no less important aspect, the promotion of a broad debate for a real reform of the taxation of heritage. By coincidence of the parliamentary calendar, this petition is discussed in January 2015, shortly after we have had the debate around the State Budget here. in this debate of the State Budget, the Left Block fought for two fundamental issues: one, directly related to the collection of the IMI and that has to do with the end of the safeguard clause, decided by this government, which will penalize, and much, the Portuguese families; another, to start this process of reforming the taxation of the heritage, presenting soon a set of proposals that, from our point of view, would introduce significant changes in the IMI. Unfortunately, as is general knowledge, all proposals, either in relation to the safeguard clause or in relation to the IMI rates, were rejected by the majority, just like the others that had to do with the tax structure itself. in this sense, the Left Block presents a draft resolution proposing the fundamental aspects that, from our point of view, should be the basis of this reform. We are also presenting them as a contribution to the broad debate that needs to be done and now allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, challenge the petitioners themselves and the petitioners themselves to continue this debate with their proposals, because citizenship has a decisive role here. This tax is also important for local authorities, but it directly affects most Portuguese families and therefore the direct contribution of citizenship will be fundamental. We note in our draft resolution a number of proposals which, as a matter of time, I do not have the conditions to present in detail here, but, from our point of view, IMI must walk to be more fair, but also to be progressive. It does not seem right, for example, that a small housing pays the same as a luxury house, so the issue of progressiveity is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u204	Don't pay the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u205	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u206	I will finish, Mr President, and I hope that Mr. Altino Bessa will let me finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u207	I'm leaving, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u208	We also propose the elimination of the benefits in IMI to real estate funds. This is a completely unjustified measure, only the protection of the interests of real estate funds justifies it, but none more. Mrs. Members of the majority, decisively, it is time to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u209	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u210	We also propose the automatic update of the IMI value. We hope that it will be possible from now on to start a serious and profound discussion on this reform that is so necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u211	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mr Mota Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Assembly of the Republic appreciates this petition, signed by more than 5000 citizens, focusing on municipal property tax. Citizens who are concerned about the consequences resulting from a process of general assessment of the heritage without the follow-up to a thorough review of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, now call on Parliament to prevent the increase of the IMI, to review the IMI Code in order to give it progressiveity, to eliminate some tax benefits and to promote, moreover, the automatic and annual updating of the alluded tax. At the right time this petition is discussed here, because we are at the beginning of a year in which this tax will be felt with great intensity, as there has not been a safeguard clause. Much due to the general reassessment of the estate, municipal property tax revenues have not stopped growing in recent years, forecasting an increase of EUR 1306 million in 2014 to EUR 1632 million in 2015, supported by the already budget parks of Portuguese families. Moreover, the IMI is the tax which increases most of the year for the other ( 10, 1 % ), as the Economic and Social Council reminded us well. As the Socialist Party is aware of its responsibility, it has been repeatedly beating itself since 2011 for the introduction of measures to counter the harmful effects of the drastic increase in this tax. We have done so by means of proposals to amend the Code of the Municipal Property Tax, in order to ensure that the value product of the assessment took into account the state of preservation of the property. We have done so by means of proposals for amendments to the budget of the State, recovering safeguard mechanisms, such as annual ceilings of increase. in particular the recovery of the safeguard clause, it was the intention of the Socialist Party to prevent the extraordinary revaluation of buildings from leading to unbearable increases for its owners, in contrast with the growing shortages of Portuguese families, thus preventing taxpayers from being confronted with annual increases of more than 75 €. It happens that the gentlemen. Members of the majority — the PSD and the CDS — have allowed this provision to be extinguished and have finally rejected the possibility of its recovery. Parliament now appreciates the concerns raised by civil society and two legislative initiatives, one of which is that of the Socialist Party, which aims to recommend to the Government to promote the revision of the IMI Code, in the light of greater fiscal equity and greater social justice. by doing so, the Socialist Party demonstrates its willingness to, in a serious and reflected manner, promote the revision of the IMI Code, providing ways to mitigate the effects of the general reassessment of the heritage or, even, formulas of determination of the most fair and coherent taxation value, able to meet the real state of preservation of the property, its natural property depreciation with the passing of time or its situation in the urban agglomeration. This is how we propose to solve a problem that afflicts Portuguese families so much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u213	Mr Altino Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are confronted with a petition that has more than 5000 signatures and as the first signatory Mr. António Joaquim Pereira Curvo Lourenço, whom I welcome to take this initiative on the subject of IMI. Essentially, what they ask is the reduction of the minimum IMI rate to 0, 2 %. What we heard, immediately, in two draft resolutions, I would say, in some way, opportunists, because to the ride of this petition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u215	It is not « to the ride», it is by drag!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u216	...it was the attack on the government, as we have seen here. But to remind Mr Mota Andrade, he would like to say that IMI revenues increased by more than 70% between 2002 and 2010 : the tax collected in 2002 was EUR 605 million and in 2010 was EUR 1045 million. I mean to tell the gentlemen. Petitioners who, indeed, this discussion of the reduction of the minimum value to 0, 2 % is not something that shocks the CDS, until what we understand is that this is a matter that, in the first instance, belongs to the authorities. And I am even surprised by the Socialist Party, which so often praises the flag of the autonomy of local power, for not having a word here concerning the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u217	What does that have to do with? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u218	It is that what we now see is that there are 140 municipalities that apply the minimum rate. Eventually, these 140 municipalities could be available to apply a lower rate if it was 0, 2 %. What I don't think makes sense is that this discussion is not done in conversation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. I would like to refer to the CFP that, if we are to see IMI rate data in some municipalities, we can verify that, for example, in the municipality of Setúbal, the IMI rate is at a maximum of 0, 5 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u219	Taxed by the government in the financial consolidation contract, at the time of the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u220	... could eventually fall to 0, 3 %. [[PCP protests.]] In Loures, they have a rate of 0, 4 %; they could eventually fall to 0, 3 %. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u222	The PS resolution project brings us here a series of falsities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u223	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u224	... but what I would like to say, Mr President, if you leave me, is that on 26 October 2011 the Ombudsman, before the evaluation, said : « The results of the analysis carried out show that only the conclusion of the evaluative process of urban real estate and a general assessment of property will allow: correct the asymmetries that the numbers patent and restore justice in the system of static and dynamic real estate taxation ». Following this, in the Memorandum of Understanding that the Socialist Party has negotiated, it has signed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u225	And you too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u226	... and signed: « Amending taxation on wealth with a view to increasing revenue by at least EUR 250 million ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u227	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u228	« The Government will review the legal assessment framework for tax purposes of existing buildings and land and present measures to ensure that by the end of 2012 the taxable capital value of all real estate is close to market value ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u229	That's 400 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u230	And he further said: "The temporary IMI exemptions for permanent own housing will be considerably reduced and the tax cost inherent in the property ownership of devolved or not leased property will be significantly increased. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u231	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u232	It was the current government that established the safeguard clause for two years, which you did not do at the time of the negotiation of the Memorandum. What they do and do, for example, António Costa, in Lisbon, is to create the civil protection rate, which is directly indexed to the tax heritage value. In other words, undercover, they create another fee, create another tax on real estate. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to mention in this speech that, in fact, in the political debate it is not worth everything and that, insistently, the right comes here to tell lies. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And he tells lies, because he doesn't tell the whole story, he doesn't realize that there are authorities, such as the example Mr. Altino Bessa gave, who have these IMI values because they were imposed on them by the governments, as a result of the management of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u235	Exactly! With the financial sanitation contract! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u236	This is the reality! It is an imposition, as imposed on those municipalities that entered the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Program) and the municipalities that are to enter the FAM ( Municipal Support Fund ) : maximum rates for everything, pay people! That's what your government here does!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u237	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet so that we can hear the honourable Member who is speaking. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We congratulate all the signatories of this petition calling for the immediate reduction of the IMI. The amendment of the IMI Code, together with the updating of the property value, led to a large increase in the IMI for many Portuguese people, who in some situations achieve unproductive values. We cannot ignore that this increase in IMI has occurred in the context of extreme difficulties for workers, reformers and the people. The IMI has increased at the same time as the purchasing power has reduced, the government has cut wages, pensions and social benefits, which has increased labour income taxes and has transferred to people increasingly charged with education and health. Clearly, the increase in IMI is part of a political option of this government, which is impoverished by Portuguese. On the impact of the IMI, it is necessary to consider the following : firstly, it is not possible to analyze these impacts only on the aspect of its taxation, i.e., a deeper analysis of the criteria introduced in the IMI Code, which led to the general worsening of the IMI ; secondly, the IMI must be seen in the view of its own and permanent housing dishonoration...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u241	... in the context of a deeper and more general change in the unfair tax burden on workers and the people, as the CFP once again proposed in the discussion of the last State budget and in draft law No 686 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u242	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u243	Finally, it is necessary, together, to find mechanisms that guarantee to the authorities the financial resources they have the right to fulfil their duties and autonomy, contrary to logic that seeks to oppose the interests of citizens to the role that the authorities take in meeting the needs of the people and to improve their living conditions. [[Protests from the CDS-PP Member Altino Bessa.]] In short, we believe that an IMI should be promoted through a global amendment to the IMI Code, and at the same time the local finance regime should be amended by strengthening the participation of authorities in State taxes, in a fair distribution of public resources between the central and local administration, and rejecting any local tax model. The government's political option in this area goes in the opposite direction: to go further in local taxation, paying more to the people and transferring the burden and hatred of tax policy to the authorities, rather than transferring the appropriate public resources to the authorities, as our Constitution provides. With regard to the IMI, we still understand — in fact, as we have already proposed in the context of the State budget for 2015 — that the safeguard regime should be maintained and that the increase of the IMI may not exceed €75 compared to the previous year;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u244	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u245	... that family aggregates whose total gross income does not exceed 2, 2 times the annual value of the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration must be exempt from IMI...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u246	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u247	... and aggregates in which one of the elements presents a disability with a permanent disability of 80 % or more and where the taxable capital value does not exceed 10 times the annual value of the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration; and that the tax benefits for real estate funds should be revoked. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u248	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the 5093 petitioners, some of them present here, for your exemplary gesture of citizenship and political participation. The petition we are considering today, as has already been mentioned, entered in May last year, in its essence, in its genesis, on its basis, the need to introduce changes to the taxation of real estate in order to make it more balanced, more consistent, more coherent and fairer. The concerns of petitioners are not only genuine, as are appropriate to reality. It is also social concerns that the parties of the majority and the government also share. in this regard, allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recall that the Government, in the State Budget, maintained the special safeguard clause applied to families of smaller resources, whereby the increase of IMI in each year may never exceed 75 €. With the maintenance of this measure, about a million Portuguese families will continue to benefit from this special protection. Let me also remind you that, through the State budget, the Government has extended the scope of the IMI exemption to more than 50 000 families, to which the 300 000 families have already benefited. [[PS protests.]] Finally, it is also possible to recall that, even within the State budget, the parties of the majority have presented and approved a proposal enabling municipal chambers to reduce the rate of IMI by about 20 %, depending on the number of children of their families. Naturally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the discussion of these matters will not be closed nor will it ever be closed, and the PSD is available, as it has always been, to discuss with seriousness, but also with consistency, these and all matters concerning the country. But there are things we demand. And what we demand, sirs. Socialist Party Members, Mr Mota Andrade, there is consistency! What we demand from the greater party of the opposition is that there be memory. Mr Mota Andrade here made reference to the drastic elements of the IMI, which is true. But, sir, have you made the memory effort yet? Have you already confessed what was the result or who caused this exponential increase in this recipe?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u251	Have you forgotten that it was the Socialist Party? [[PS Protests]] Mr. Member, it was the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u252	You've forgotten! [[Protests from PS MP Mota Andrade.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u253	Sir, listen carefully. It was the Socialist Party that internationally committed the Portuguese State, within the framework of the Memorandum of Understanding, the original version—see, firstly, what I am saying to you — to carry out a general reassessment of the buildings, in order to obtain an additional revenue for the consolidation of public accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u254	250 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u255	... additional revenue which necessarily involved an exponential increase in IMI, with serious difficulties for Portuguese families ; secondly, to increase IMI rates from 2012 onwards. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, you will not say here that it is also false that the Socialist Party internationally undertook the Portuguese State to reduce the temporary exemptions from IMI! Is that what you're talking about? [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member is forgotten, but now let me also remind you of the lack of coherence, the lack of memory and, I would like to say, the lack of decency of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u256	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u257	Despite these worsenings of the IMI, did the Members of the Socialist Party perhaps vote in favour of the safeguard clause which we have temporarily established for two years? No, they didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u259	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u260	Have the Socialist Party Members voted in favour of the possibility of IMI being paid in more than two benefits? Oh, my God! No, they didn't! Did the Members of the Socialist Party vote in favour of the possibility given to municipalities to reduce IMI by the number of children? Oh, my God! No, they didn't vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u261	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u262	There's memory. There's consistency. There's decency! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u263	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for speeches on this point of our agenda, so we will move on to the following point, which consists in the assessment of petition No 372 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Carlos Alberto Anacleto Galvão and others, who want the Tax Authority to comply with double taxation agreements on the taxation of dependent earnings taken outside Portugal. Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate and greet all petitioners — more than 4000 signatures — who want the Tax Authority to comply with the double taxation conventions on the taxation of wages of dependent workers taken outside Portugal. A first note on the evolution of the economy and the importance that these aspects related to the expansion of the economy, which were previously not relevant in the area of taxation and which recently, with increased investment opportunities, employment and service delivery abroad, show situations with unreasonable tax consequences. We must remember that economies are increasingly open abroad, there are more and more Portuguese immigrants and sent abroad, more and more Portuguese companies are looking for their opportunities abroad. These unreasonable tax consequences have an impact on the number of tax obligations, on the requirements necessary to meet them, on formalities, on the value of taxes and also on the issue of duplication. These are situations where the conduct of international business or operations implies compliance with tax obligations in the States concerned, or the same operation, or a tax fact which may give rise to more than an obligation to tax. In order to safeguard such situations and create some security for economic operators who wish to invest in international markets, States shall conclude agreements or treaties called « conventions to avoid double international taxation ». These conventions, held between Portugal and other countries, aim to eliminate double international income taxation and to promote the prevention of tax evasion. They also derive from Community directives, and several entities may benefit from the exemption scheme, provided they meet the necessary conditions. It is also, as we can see in the petition, a conflict of competence between these entities, within which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic defines that: « The rules and principles of general or common international law form an integral part of Portuguese law »; « The rules contained in regularly ratified or approved international conventions are in force in the internal order after their official publication and while binding internationally the Portuguese State ». It also follows from the petition that the principle of non-contradiction between rules of the same system; the principle of hierarchy between sources of law, in which a hierarchically superior standard prevails, in case of contradiction, over the hierarchically inferior standard. This petition also addresses the OECD model of convention, defending the following: all income should be taxed somewhere; double international taxation should be avoided on the basis of internationally agreed principles; non-hiding income in 'tax havens'; the minimization of harmful tax competition; the promotion of international cooperation against tax evasion; the principle of the price in full competition, which should be applied to all cross-border transactions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u265	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u266	I conclude by saying that the tax situation of taxable persons in each Member State needs to be clarified, uniformized and ensured and that the growing openness to the outside world and the stay of citizens and businesses raise issues that are not of little importance, so a thorough and careful look must be given to these situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u267	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the more than 4000 subscribers of the petition today in question, who ask the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the Conventions on Double Taxation between Portugal and several other countries are complied with. They allege to the subscribers of the petition that the Government has been illegally charging IRS on employee incomes taken out of Portugal, which, according to the double taxation conventions, would be exempt from any taxation in Portugal. The CFP has, over the years, denounced situations of undue charge of IRS to national citizens living abroad, requiring the Government to comply with double taxation conventions and clarifying doubts that may still exist about the application of these conventions. But the petitioners not only denounce situations of undue tax collection on labour income, they also denounce the performance of the Tax Authority, which, following government guidance, in the face of taxpayer claims, adopts the attitude of charging first and then clarify. The government has adopted a shameful tax enforcement policy, aimed at small taxpayers, whether they are private or business, covering the fight against fraud and tax evasion. Fraud and tax evasion are negative phenomena that have to be combated, but the liquidation and recovery of debts by the State have their own procedural rules that cannot and should not be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u269	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u270	The Government's option for small taxpayers has been to misuse tax executions, clearly to the detriment of those who do not have legal knowledge or economic means to enforce their rights with the tax administration. This pursuit against small taxpayers cannot be dissociated from the government's tax policy options. A policy that crushes workers and families, as well as micro and small businesses, while scandalously favouring large economic and financial groups. The Government which provides guidance to the Tax and Customs Authority not to look at ways to collect small tax debts is the same as, by legislative means, it makes it perfectly legal for mass tax evasion by large capital. The government that promotes housing of low-income family aggregates, due to low value tax debts compared to the value of the property, is the same government that allocates tax benefits of billions and millions of euros to large companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u271	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u272	...and that they are omitted in the accounts of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u273	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u274	Therefore, we tell the thousands of subscribers of the petition today under discussion that the concrete problems reported in this petition must be investigated and restored to legality, but a comprehensive solution of the problem naturally requires the rejection of the unfair and unjust fiscal policy carried out by successive governments of right-wing policy, of favouring large economic and financial groups, at the expense of workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u275	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of this petition addresses one of the essential initiatives that this Government has had, in particular with regard to the internationalisation effort of our economy. The conclusion of conventions to avoid double taxation has indeed merited strong momentum and strong attention on the part of this Government to create a network capable of internationalizing and supporting both foreign investment in Portugal and investment by Portuguese companies and expats in other countries outside Portugal. Combating fraud and tax evasion is one of the subjects on which the conclusion of the conventions to avoid double taxation is absolutely essential, as it is also necessarily the strengthening of information exchange mechanisms. This petition concerns, above all, the income of natural persons and it is also a good opportunity to recall what the recent reform of the IRS, which has been approved and which is already in force, has done with regard to some of the aspects which are highlighted here. On the one hand, the creation of partial tax residency is one of the instruments that clearly helps to overcome, in part, some of the obstacles identified in this petition, i.e. there is a direct and immediate connection between the period of effective physical presence in a territory and what is considered for the purposes of tax residence. Therefore, especially when there have been years of moving from one country to another, whether from one Portuguese who will live outside, or from one who has come outside to live in Portugal, there is a clear identification between the moment from which he becomes considered a tax resident in Portugal. On the other hand, the period of time for which it is possible to correct a tax credit resulting from the application of these double taxation agreements is also extended. In addition, a tax benefit has been created for expatriates, which basically includes a share of income that is no longer taxed when a travel abroad is involved. On the other hand, by allowing, as a rule, separate taxation of couples, there is an additional mechanism for simplification when one of the couple’s members receives income outside the country. There is also a uniformization of what is harmonisation in terms of taxation of more value in the application of libertarian rates. Finally, I could give more examples of the fact that the recent reform of the IRS is precisely in order to reflect what is the reality of the society in which we live today, where more and more investment flows and people between countries must, of course, be accompanied by what is the applicable legislation in this case. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u277	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners very directly, for the act of citizenship to come to this House of the Republic to defend interests that are yours but that are also the interests of the Republic and the rule of law, because they are bound by a good application of tax law. I am not going to go into a discussion, which would even be easy to have here, about what the majority defends in relation to the reform of the IRS and reject some of the arguments we have put forward in the past—I think it is not the time for us to do so—but I would like to say, in the name of the Left Block bench, that we recognize the rights that petitioners defend in the petition, defending themselves from the execution that is made by the Tax Authority and the way their rights are challenged by that Authority, and therefore we follow their ideas, their wishes and their desire for change in the way they are respected in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u279	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of this petition, who want the Tax Authority to comply with the conventions to avoid double taxation on employee incomes taken out of Portugal. The question arises with residents in Portugal who work abroad. Therefore, in addition to the usual care already dispensed to all questions that are asked by petitioners, the latter still has an added value. Subscribers are addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, invoking the OECD Model Convention, considering that « the Portuguese State has been illegally taxing the IRS to residents and other non-residents who own a family home in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” They even in the petition that this tax affects income of dependent labour taken outside Portugal which, according to the law in force, are exempt from taxation in Portugal and refer to Article 15 ( 2 ). the Convention to support this claim. In view of the supervisory responsibility that the Assembly of the Republic and the Members have, what contribution can we make in the consideration of this issue? The first recital is that Portugal has so far signed 71 Conventions to eliminate double taxation, which shows that the different governments over time have had the concern to avoid this practice. Portugal is therefore in line with good international practices, both from the standpoint of the IRS Code and the Model Convention. The IRS Code defines in its scope the following: ‘Since persons resident in Portuguese territory, the IRS affects all their incomes, including those obtained outside that territory. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, the IRS affects all incomes received by residents in Portugal, and this is the wording that has been in force since December 1998. As regards Article 15. that of the Convention, paragraph 1 establishes the rule, saying that taxation occurs in both States, and the State of residence is responsible for eliminating double taxation through the mechanisms of the Convention. Paragraph 2 sets the exception, and the exception states that taxation must take place exclusively in the State of residence, in such situations, for example, short-term work, and it is understood why. In conclusion, the conjugation of Article 15 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). that of the Convention renews us to the forecast of the IRS Code, which says that all income taken from residents in Portugal is subject to IRS. Referring to Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, I would like to say that the petition that is under consideration does not tell us whether they are small or large taxpayers. The honourable Member is that he's trying to put here the cassette of the big ones and the small ones,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u281	There's the tape again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u282	...of the left and right, because nothing in the petition tells us if they are small or if they are large contributors. [[PCP protests.]] To finish, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that the Government and the majority, recognizing that such matters can take on some complexity, have been improving ways of simplifying compliance with tax obligations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u283	The Bureau no longer registers on this debate, so we will move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 384 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Union of Tax Workers, expressing itself against the closure of finance services and draft resolution No 1195 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintains the service of proximity to financial allocations, safeguarding the territory, municipalities, public services and populations ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say a word to the citizens who have met to present this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, in a very significant number — more than 50 000 — and a very particular recognition to the Union of Workers of Taxes for the act of citizenship that they had in being the engine of the collection of signatures in this petition. The petition reached this number of citizens' and citizens' signatures because it is important for people, it is related to the proximity of public services and, in particular, in this particular case, to the existence of finance distribution services with the population and the impediment to taking forward the will that the Government has to reduce the number of finance services across the country. This is a discussion we have already discussed several times in this plenary, so instead of repeating arguments, I would like to ask a few questions to the majority on this subject. from here a few days from now, we will have the beginning of the one who was a complicated contest for tax inspectors. The government announced in 2012 that it would take forward a contest to hire 1000 tax inspectors. in this contest for tax inspectors, it is known today that about 500 of the candidates admitted are people who currently come from financial distributions. Today, they are in financial allocations listening to what the citizens need, tomorrow they will be in the financial allocations and on Monday they will start their stage. So, from today until Monday, there are 500 professionals who will leave the financial allocations. The first question I ask the parties of the majority — and I hope they will answer — is to know how the government and this majority predict that the allocations of funds will be on Monday. Do you expect that we will have many of those phrases placed on the door saying 'closed breakdown because you do not have any staff to care for the citizens'? Second question: how will they respond to the lack of these 500 professionals in the field? Will more employment-inclusion contracts be concluded? Is that the way the government has to solve this problem? Or will it simply close the financial allocations? I would like you to answer these questions, because they are inherently related to the petition and the need for quality public services. I hope most of you will have the courage to answer these questions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u285	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the more than 50 000 petitioners who present this petition against the closure of finance services. The terms of the petition are clear and it is justified because this government is the champion of the courts. From December 2011 to the end of 2014, the public service lost 80 000 workers, twice as much as it contained in the Memorandum of Understanding, which has already been remembered here today. We are currently living the drama of layoffs in social security. in health — we have had a debate here today — we live chaos in emergencies due to cuts and lack of personnel and the closure of health extensions. It's never too much to remember that! The government went further in closing schools, at the end of the parish, at the courts within the Ministry of Agriculture, at the closing of courts. If they have cut abruptly in all areas, it is expected that at the first opportunity they will also do so in finance services. This is how gradually a large area of the desertification country is left, regional differences are accentuated and abandonment and depopulation is promoted. We have one young person for every three elderly people in the country, we live a real demographic winter, frozen like this year, and to which this government adds coldness. With the closure of finance services, citizens and businesses will be further away from allocations, increasing the travel costs and the time spent on dealing with these issues. How are we going to attract companies, investment, wealth to the inside, if the perspective is always that of reduction, cutting and increasing difficulties? The path is precisely the opposite: encouraging employment, setting people and businesses and encouraging economic development. The Government will say that it created the Approximar programme, approved on 31 July 2014 and that it has been translated into the strategy for the reorganization of service services and the Public Administration. However, there are several questions raised about this measure. Half a year later, it is not yet properly implemented on the ground, so I would question the situation of this measure. For when will the implementation of the pilot experiments be implemented? Whose responsibility is this new space? Who's going to fund them? Or is it another area they want to municipalize? What will happen, as already mentioned, to the officials of the various services concerned, in particular in this case, to those of finance? How will access to all available information and databases be managed? The Socialist Party once again reaffirms its commitment to territorial cohesion, to maintaining employment and public services throughout the country, in the regions of the interior and the coast, essential for the establishment of agglomeration economies capable of creating economic development throughout the country. at the end of the day, it will be another measure with the same results as the cuts in justice and health: the citizen gets worse, the jobs are extinguished and the communities are irremediably harmed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u287	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners on behalf of the CDS bench on the presentation of this petition, which must, however, be contextualized in order to bring justice to the parliamentary debate. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government, before speaking on the Approximar programme and in the strategy for the reorganization of services, had already provided for a restructuring at the level of finance services and, within the framework of it, the creation of a tax office in all municipalities where this restructuring would, precisely to ensure a transition, involve personalized service of taxpayers in normal working hours. Subsequently, within the framework of the Approximar programme, there has been a global strategy for the reorganization of public services, in which the reorganization of finance services is inserted, a strategy that allows, contrary to what is said here, to make the services closer to the populations and more efficient. Mr Ivo Oliveira of the Socialist Party came here to point out schools, hospitals and courts that were closed. It is worth recalling, Mr President, that this government has closed schools and much less maternity than the previous Government of Eng. José Socrates. What is more, Mr President, is something that the former Government, of its party, has also done to close financial allocations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u289	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u290	what we are talking about now, Mr President, is the replacement of financial allocations by posts close to the population, in the parish councils, in the TTCs or where the habit of the populations is already heading. As you will certainly not ignore, it is often much more useful to have a service position at the parish board than at the headquarters of the council, than people have to travel 20 km or 30 km to the headquarters of the council to deal with a financial issue. But it is also necessary to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, times change. Of course there are still, and will continue to be, those who have difficulty in dealing with these issues at home, but this will be less and less and, in such cases, the trip to the parish board will help. Because the goal of all of us—at least I'm speaking for myself, Mr. Members will know about VV. For example — it is not to have to go to a financial distribution, it is to deal with things remotely, in a comfortable way at home, until those who work cannot spend an afternoon or a morning in a financial division. It is clear that remote care is not within the reach of all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u291	The country is not Cascais!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u292	...because not all people still have that ability and knowledge. For these cases, the Approximar program ensures that someone qualified to help people to be cared for much closer to home than often did when they had to go to the financial distributions. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u293	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the petition promoted by the Tax Workers' Union against the closure of financial services, which has collected almost 50 000 signatures. On the same subject they also entered the Assembly of the Republic petitions promoted by the Movement of Users of the Public Services of the Town Council of Aljustrel and by the local bodies of the municipality of Grândola. There were also petitions about the closure of finances in Satão, Alcântara, Castelo de Paiva and Matosinhos. from here we welcome the Union of Tax Workers, the Movement of Users of the Public Services of the Town Council of Aljustrel, the local bodies of the municipality of Grândola and all those involved in petitions and in the fight against the closure of finance services. When the petition we discussed today came in, there were great concerns and doubts about the announcement of a closing process on which the government was not saying. At a certain height, the numbers presented were dramatic. in the interior of the country it would be a total race: districts like Bragança or Beja were practically without services, and in the latter, we were talking about the closure of 12 of the 14 services conciliated. And all of this happened without a word from the Ministry to quiet the tax workers, who were naturally alarmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u295	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u296	This process of closing public services is not unusual to this government. Schools, health services, GNR posts, post offices of the post office and even fregetes—of all this government has always closed, always to fulfil its political programme of State aggression, or rather, of reorientation of State resources to the financial sector, to the large groups, to the suspects of custom. Always against the interests of the people and the generality of the Portuguese. It was the Government itself that, in its information on the object of the petition, confirmed in July 2014 that a Strategy for the Reorganization of Public Administration Care Services was under way, invoking gains of proximity, as if to close services had some approach. Another feature of this strategy is to push responsibility for the authorities, the same ones that are completely suffocated, organicly and financially by the government. Many financial allocations have been closed in councils whose populations need these services. It has not yet moved forward to the announced scale of the government strategy, but that is no reason for us to rest. This is the government of the minimum state for Portuguese, but the maximum state when it is necessary to protect interests or to cover ruinous management. The situations created with the closures of public services confirm the damage caused to the populations. Only the maintenance and improvement of public services of proximity and quality give guarantees of the fulfilment of the values of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and of the values of April, values that must be restored and which require other policies and other governments to carry them out. To do so, Portuguese can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u297	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, my first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to welcome the 50 000 citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are discussing, greeting which also extends to the Union of Tax Workers, which promoted and dynamized this petition, expressing itself against the closure of finance services. In fact, it is not every day that the Assembly of the Republic is discussing a petition supported by 50 000 citizens. Thus, the first note that the Greens want to leave in this debate is that the large number of citizens who have subscribed to this petition ends up expressing the importance of the subject we are discussing. The government intends to close half of the country's financial allocations, an intention that it hid to where it could and that the Portuguese were known not through the government but, yes, thanks to the Union of Tax Workers, which ended up denouncing. This intention was subsequently confirmed by the Government in its late replies to the questions that the Parliamentary Group of the Greens addressed to it in 2013 when nothing could already hide. This claim also confirms how the Government looks at public services and the quality of life of its citizens. This intention of the Government is another testimony to the difficulties it faces when it has to deal with the social functions of the State. That is why the Government's intention is absolutely unqualified. Seeking to close half of the country's finance services is absolutely unacceptable. After all, we are talking about one more knife in proximity services, we are talking about one more blow in the quality of public services provided to citizens and taxpayers, who pay taxes for it, a situation that will further aggravate the lives of populations, mainly from within, where distances are enormous and that has a large part of the aging population. For this reason, the alternatives that the Government of an electronic nature holds do not take themselves as an effective solution, either near or far. It is another blow, especially for people who do not have public transport and who therefore attend a further withdrawal from the State. With this government, in fact, public services are even to be slaughtered. Schools, courts, parish courts, post offices, GNR posts, health centres and, now, also financial allocations — nothing escapes this anger of the government against public services. Shame! In conclusion, I would just like to say that the Greens Ecological Party accompanies the concerns, purposes and objectives of the petitioners, which are very well expressed against this government's claim to close half of the financial allocations throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u300	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by greeting the subscribers of the petition promoted by the Union of Tax Workers and thus other petitions which, having not reached 4,000 petitioners, were aimed at the same object, i.e., to express themselves against the closure of finance services. It should be noted that there are still other petitions already concluded, both from the current legislature and from previous legislatures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I said well, of the current and previous legislatures, because this is another heavy inheritance of the Socialist Party government. Every day the PS tries to pass the idea that they have cleared up all the blame in the last elections, but that's not true, Mr. Ivo Oliveira. The bill of de-government to which the Portuguese came only after the elections, and this is another example.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u302	We're still paying for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u303	Let's get to the facts. The tax report of the Ministry of Finance of the Socialist Government provided the following for local finance services ( yes, we are talking about the Government of the Socialist Party ) : services existing in the Continent and the Azores - 361 ; services existing after the programme - 240. As a result: less 121 finance services, i.e. less 33, 5 % services. For example, in the three districts of Alentejo — Portalegre, Évora and Beja — the reduction was more than 71 %. We're talking about the socialist government, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u304	You didn't want to stay behind!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u305	And do you know what the criterion used was, Mr. Deputy? It was the demographic criterion, that is, there were few people living there! The path of socialist governance led us to the request for external aid in 2011 and we all know what resulted there, Mr. I invite you to consult point 3.34 ( ii ) of the Memorandum, which refers to a reduction in the number of local finance services in at least 20 % per year in 2012 and 2013. This is the type of invoice, i.e. responsibilities, that the PS now wants to move away. But you can't, sir. Members of the Socialist Party, because these are your bills and you are going to have to pay, in addition to all the others, many, I dare say to the hundreds. This Government and the majority parties have been able to give a better solution to these issues for Portuguese people living in any region of the country, regardless of population density. And the solution was not easy, Mr, because we were tied to the commitments made by the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u306	However, we have managed to overcome all these constraints. The Approximar programme aims to provide a better quality and proximity service, ensuring more efficient use of state resources and greater commitment and involvement of municipalities in this mission. The creation of the citizenship condominium will enable these objectives to be achieved. Now, the strategy defined for local finance services becomes part of a global strategy for all public administration services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u307	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u308	To conclude, Mr. President and Mr. Members, as can be seen and proved, the Socialist Party has a strategy to close, as it has concluded, financial allocations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u309	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one second only.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have to say that I was waiting for the majority to answer the two questions I asked, which are direct questions that matter to people's lives. However, we did not, in fact, get an answer. There are 500 people who will leave the financial allocations and there are zero answers from the majority. These people are going to get out of the financial distributions. So, what happens to the distributions of finances, close or keep open? Zero answers from the majority. But will there be more employment-inclusion contracts to keep open? Zero answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u311	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u312	Mr President, with zero answers, I am also dissatisfied and hope that another debate will be able to clarify this because if it is for the lives of people we already know that it is by the closed door that will be clarified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-08.u313	The other Mrs. Members no longer have time to answer. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. We will meet tomorrow, on 9 a.m. for 10 a.m. with the following agenda: in point 1, we will discuss legislation No 265 / XII ( 4 ) as a whole. ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 8 / 2012 of 21 February adopting the rules applicable to undertakings and late payments of public entities and draft Act No 747 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ).......................................................................... ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; following-CL, point 3, the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1154 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an audit by the Court of Auditors on measures to support socially necessary employment ( CIS, CIS + and CIS Heritage) ( BE ) and 1207 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes to the Government the urgent conclusion of an exhaustive survey on the use, by public administration bodies and all other contracting parties, of employment-inclusion contracts ( CIS) and of employment-inclusion contracts + ( CIS +) ( PS ) ; point 4 consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1191 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by complying with the legislation establishing medical and free follow-up to former workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( The Greens ), 1168 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by complying with the right to free medical supervision, including the exemption from moderate rates ( BE), 1201 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by complying with Law No 10 / 2010 of 14 June, which establishes the duty of the State to ensure the obligation of periodic and free medical follow-up to the workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( PCP ) and 1203 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by ensuring through the National Health Service to the former workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families of periodic and free medical follow-up ( PS ) ; in paragraph 5, there is the debate on the motion for a resolution No 94 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 189 on decent work for domestic workers adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 100th meeting. the session, held in Geneva on 16 June 2011, together with draft resolutions 1048 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Convention on Dignified Work for Domestic Workers and take appropriate measures for their implementation ( CFP ) and 634 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the International Labour Organisation Convention ( BE) No 189 ; point 6 refers to motions for resolutions 93 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Sixth Additional Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 5 March 1996, and 95 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Simplified Extradition Agreement between the Republic of Argentina, the Federal Republic of Brazil, the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic, signed in Santiago de Compostela, on 3 November 2010, without time for discussion ; finally, as point 7, we shall have a vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 48 minutes.]]
