ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take their seats. First of all, I wish a New Year very happy to Members and Members, Journalists, officials and all Portuguese at this first plenary session of 2015. Mrs. Members, today we have an extensive role of initiatives, whose entry will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to whom I now give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted by the President: proposals by lein.265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the fourth Act No 8 / 2012 of 21 February which adopts the rules applicable to the taking of commitments and late payments by public entities, which falls to 5. the Commission, 266 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission, 267 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime of local authorities, approving the status of inter-municipal entities, establishing the legal regime for the transfer of State powers to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, and approving the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 268 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reduce working time for 35 hours per week ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 269 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Programming Act, which falls to 3. the Commission, 270 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Programming Act, which falls to 3. the Commission ; and Parliamentary assessment No 129 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December approving the process of indirect reprivatization of the capital of TAP, Portuguese Air Transport, SA ( PCP ). The draft resolutions Nos 1189 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends the use of registered mail in IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ) and ISS, IP ( Institute for Social Security ) to prevent the cutting of social benefits ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1190 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by revoking the « sub-concession » process to the private of the Collective Transport of Port ( STCP ) and the Port Metro ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1191 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by complying with the legislation establishing medical and free follow-up to former workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( The Greens ), 1192 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a health unit in Odivelas ( BE ), 1193 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Priority to the construction of the variant at EN14 ( BE ), 1194 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures guaranteeing the safety of ports and the protection of coastal shoreline ( BE ), 1195 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintains the service of proximity of financial distributions, safeguarding the territory, municipalities, public services and populations ( BE), 1196 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government justice measures in the economy for municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE), 1197 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider the transfer of responsibility for the management and development of the Information System to the Architectural Heritage ( SIPA ) of the protection of the spatial planning for the protection of culture ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1198 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the construction of the variant at the national road No 14 ( PCP ), 1199 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ), 1200 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( PCP ), 1201 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by complying with Law No 10 / 2010 of 14 June, which establishes the duty of the State to ensure the obligation of periodic and free medical follow-up to the workers of the UNNU ( National Urani Company ) and their families ( PCP ), 1202 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the variant at the national road No 14, between Famalíão, Trofa and Maia ( Trofa variant ) ( PS ), 1203 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by ensuring through the SNS ( National Health Service ), the former workers of the UN ( National Uranio Company ) and their families of periodic and free medical follow-up ( PS ), 1204 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( The Greens), 1205 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the revision of the Code of Municipal Property Tax in the light of criteria of greater fiscal equity and social justice ( PS ), 1206 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the works of the Foz Tua dam ( The Greens), 1207 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes to the Government the urgent lifting of an exhaustive appeal by public administration bodies and all other contracting parties, employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts + ( PS ), 1208 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with an infrastructure model to improve accessibility on national road No 14, in particular in areas of confluence with the municipalities of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão ( CDS-PP ) and 1209 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a work priority plan at fishing ports across the country ( CDS-PP ). The projects of lein.o 704 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Revokes the requalification regime ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 705 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Withdraws special mobility and the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Madam President, I request that Mr. Abel Baptista continue to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. I therefore ask the Secretary, Mr Abel Baptista, to conclude the announcement of the extensive role of initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we follow the projects of lein.os 706 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Pontinha parish, in Odivelas, Lisbon District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 707 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the family parish in the municipality of Odivelas, Lisbon District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 708 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Olival de Basto, in the municipality of Odivelas, Lisbon District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 709 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Póvoa de Santo Adrião, in the municipality of Odivelas, Lisbon District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 710 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Vila Nova de São Bento, in the municipality of Serpa, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 711 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Domingos, in the municipality of Santiago do Cacém, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 712 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Cruz, in the municipality of Santiago do Cacém, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 713 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santiago — Alcácer do Sal, in the municipality of Alcácer do Sal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 714 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Val de Vargo, in the municipality of Serpa, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 715 / XII ( 4. a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Maria do Castelo — Alcácer do Sal, in the municipality of Alcácer do Sal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 716 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Bartolomeu da Serra, in the municipality of Santiago do Cacem, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 717 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Marateca, in the municipality of Palmela, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 718 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Poceirão, in the municipality of Palmela, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 719 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Susana, in the municipality of Alcácer do Sal, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 720 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the water Valley parish in the municipality of Santiago do Cacém, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 721 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santiago do Cacém, in the municipality of Santiago do Cacém, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 722 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Rio de Moinhos, in the Town Hall of Aljustrel, Beja District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 723 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Pedro da Afurada in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 724 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Crestuma, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 725 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Gulpillares, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 726 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Pedroso, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 727 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Mafamude, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 728 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Sermonde, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, Porto district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 729 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Valadares, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 730 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Aljustrel, in the Town Hall of Aljustrel, Beja District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 731 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Grijó, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, Porto district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 732 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Lever parish, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, Porto district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 733 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Olival, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 734 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Perosinho, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 735 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Seixezel, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, Port District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 736 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Serzedo, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 737 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Marinha, in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 738 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Vilar do Paraíso in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 739 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Sandim parish in the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia, Porto district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 740 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Lapa, in the municipality of Cartaxo, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 741 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Ereira parish, in the Council of the Cartaxo, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 742 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Fajarda, in the municipality of Coruche, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 743 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Erra parish in Coruche district, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 744 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Coruche, in Coruche, Santarém district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 745 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the child protection organisation, ensuring greater protection for all victims of domestic violence and other forms of domestic violence ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 746 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the parish of Pernes, the Union of Freguess of Saint Vincent of Paul and Val de Figueira and the Union of Freguess of Achete, Azoy of Basso and Póvoa of Santarém, in the municipality of Santarém ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 747 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the Law of Commitments and Late Payments ( PCP ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Abel Baptista. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, this pause is due to the fact that the Portuguese Parliament, as it could not fail to be, expresses a deep indignation and deep regret over what happened this morning in Paris. Parliamentary groups unanimously want to intervene to express this feeling of revolt with what happened in Paris this morning before we begin the normal order of work. By associating myself with Parliament as a whole, with all parliamentary groups, I would also like to leave here this essential record that the reason is the foundation of civilization, that fundamental rights result from reason and are transversal to all cultures as a result of reason and that freedom of the press has a qualified value, insofar as it translates the exercise of a fundamental right, at the same time objectively conforming the structures of democracy. And we are outraged at what happened this morning that we previously included in our agenda a time of deep reflection and an enormous sense of revolt, protest, signing, at the same time, an intense purpose that our will be exercised every day in order to affirm the reason, civilization, democracy and fundamental rights. Members of each parliamentary group will have an intervention time and registrations will be made in accordance with the order in which the Bureau is registered. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today was marked by this fateful fact, by a barbaric attack, which was an attack on a newspaper, on freedom of the press, and of which the number of deaths is being updated every minute that passes. It is indeed a barbaric act that could not happen without the Assembly of the Republic taking a stand against this act of terrorism. It is unacceptable that freedom of the press be attacked and that we could remain silent in the face of this attack. A word of solidarity to those working in that newspaper, to all the press professionals who, in the value of their freedom, also have the value of our society, because in their freedom there is freedom for all of us. A word of regret to the relatives of those who died, but a word of deep indignation at what happened. The Portuguese Parliament will make the way forward so that it can take a firm stand as a vote in the next voting period. It will be easy for all parliamentary groups to reach agreement on a text so that we can leave the clear mark of Parliament's formal position, but I would like to leave here the position of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for the need to think about freedom and freedom of the press without falling into easy ideas, neither on the idea of the clash of civilizations, nor on the idea of the clash of religions, and also on the fact that it was in France that we had great rallies against the attack on freedoms, against fascism, against the authoritarianism that has taken place and that the people have been able to make the way to free themselves. It is also this history, this tradition and this life that is at stake with today's attack and to which we cannot fail to pay tribute, because by condemning the attack that has been made, this vile attack on this freedom that has been built at the expense of history that has cost us so much that we could not fail to show in this Parliament our dismay and our indignation. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u7	I now give the floor to Mr António Rodrigues for the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with deep sadness that the first intervention by the Portuguese Parliament in 2015 must be on these matters. It is a barbershop and the barbershop has no justification, it does not have any kind of argument, nor can it have any kind of presentation or defense. What happened today was that people — journalists, officials, police — in the exercise of their duties, when today morning they left their homes and perhaps they went to school or went through a café and drank a kiss, when they tried to have a normal life, of those normal lives in which we reported every day that nothing happened, today happened. It is important that such acts be remembered not only in the days in which they occur, but especially in the days when such attitudes do not happen, because we cannot be pleasing, we cannot defend any kind of radicalism, nor is there even a place to justify any kind of religion. There is no religion in the world that can defend this, but there is something that has to be called attention: this type of acts has grown in recent years, has grown in recent months and we need to systematically condemn them. What happened in the paper today also happened a few months ago when some were beheaded, and this cannot happen in the name of Humanity, cannot happen in the name of freedom, it cannot happen in any name whatsoever. We hope that this will be the last time this year for us to reproduce this type of intervention. Surely we are all in favour of this not happening again, but we all have to be against, so that these kinds of things can't happen again. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u9	Mr João Oliveira is next to the PCP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to express our most lively condemnation to the terrorist attack that took place this morning in Paris and, moreover, to express our most lively condemnation to all forms of terrorism, sending, of course, to the families of the victims and to all the French people, in particular to the media professionals, our condolences and a word of solidarity. I would also like to leave an expression of concern about what will be at the root of this truly barbarous act, which took place this morning in Paris and to express our concern that the firm fight against terrorism itself should not be a pretext for deepening new conflicts, new expressions of violence and, eventually, the scourge for the escalation of terrorism itself and violence. In other words, the firm fight, which must be waged, terrorism, all forms of terrorism, will allow it to do the same: to combat terrorism and not create new sources of violence, conflict, which it leads to. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u11	Mr Ferro Rodrigues now speaks for the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would also like to express our shock, our outrage and our concern with the barbaric act, the terrorist act that this morning offended Paris, France, the whole European Union and the whole civilized world. It was really something impossible to explain in the light of any doctrine; it was something of a huge gravity, which not only called into question the freedom of the press, but also the roots of democracy not only in France but also in Europe and which could have very serious political and social consequences. In the face of these attacks on democracy and freedom of expression and information, there is an increasing capacity for the unity of peoples against terrorism and against these barbaric ways of intervening in the lives of our societies and, above all, that no one does, in Europe, or in France, or in any other country, the game of terrorists, which is the game of challenging our democratic systems, of jeopardizing freedom of information, of questioning everything that has been great civilizational achievements over the last decades and the last centuries. So I wanted to finish by saying that I recently saw a word of order here on the computer, which seems to me to be the most adjusted one. It is that, now and from now on, "We are all Charlie Hebdo". Charlie Hebdo has a huge tradition in France, since the 1968 movements : it has always been an organ that has not been manipulated by any kind of censorship, official or unofficial. What has happened today is of enormous gravity and we want to send our total solidarity to France, to journalists and to the family members of all those who died sadly this morning in Paris. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u13	by the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What, I believe, should be emphasized, firstly, is that this attack with which we have all been confronted today was obviously an act perpetrated by radicals, extremists, and that only that would deserve our condemnation. On the other hand, as has been said here, and well, this is an attack that occurs in the heart of Europe that we are part of, in a friendly country, a country to which we are united very close ties of friendship, as is France, and which, as has also been said here, is perhaps one of the countries of Europe, which has a stronger and older tradition of freedom of the press of different signs — of the press, even in some cases humorous, as is the case of Charlie Hebdo or others — but a very deep tradition of freedom of the press, of cultural freedom and of freedom of expression. It was also said here, and well, that such an attack is an attack on freedom of expression. It is, even more than that, and soon at the outset, an attack that killed 12 dead and aims, with these 12 dead, to intimidate many more journalists throughout the world outside, because it is evident that this is the sign of terrorism. It is an attack on human life, which is, of course, the most basic and fundamental value, and we also agree, an attack on freedom of expression and, as such, an attack on democracy, because there is no democracy without the free press and no freedom of expression. From there, our condemnation. Terrorism can never be accepted, terrorism is always, in itself, as has been said here, and well, a vile act and a cowardly act, because armed men have attacked and taken the life of 12 innocent civilians, who were, according to their convictions, in a democracy that obviously has control mechanisms, to exercise their profession freely. Therefore, our living and profound condemnation. And also our living and deep solidarity, of course, towards the relatives of these 12 people who have died, to those who are suffering with their death, to their fellow workers, journalists, and to the French Republic itself. I want to leave two final words. Not wanting to anticipate any political debate, I must say that it is true that the response of tolerance, which we call the "moral superiority of democracies", can never be an answer, to some extent or at any point, comparable to violence, because violence is never acceptable, but must be a firm answer. That is to say, there is no contradiction between being tolerant and being firm in combating terrorism, we are firm in combating such killers. Therefore, there is no contradiction between defending democracy, tolerance and freedom of expression and being firm and determined in the fight against terrorism, wanting and wishing France and the world to know, condemn and succeed in pursuing and bringing to justice all those involved in this kind of act. There is no contradiction. I would end by saying, and taking in the words of the first speaker in this debate, that on the part of the CDS there is all the desire and all the will that we can have here — which is not always the case — on a subject and on such a serious issue, to approve, unanimously, the whole Parliament, a common text expressing our condemnation and our attachment to freedom of expression as a fundamental value. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u15	For the Greens, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Greens Parliamentary Group, to associate myself with the absolute condemnation of this act of terror which took place today in Paris in an attack on a reference satirical weekly newspaper. We've heard of 12 deaths, more than two dozen wounded (and we don't know if the number will be around), some, according to information that is being provided, in very serious state. And I think it is important to be aware that the condemnation of this act and the feeling of terror concerning this act are not naturally left by the premises of the newspaper, not naturally by France, is a world that is outraged by this absolute terror. In fact, I believe that the words « horror» and « terror» must often be repeated in view of what we are experiencing today, as a result of what has just happened in France. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In defence of freedom of expression, in defence of freedom of the press, in defence of freedoms, a great union is indeed needed, which, in my view, this House of the Republic will demonstrate, not only today but also in a vote which I believe will approve unanimously. It is necessary, in fact, for the world to rise and rise to fight these horrors. Our sorrow here directly for the families of the people who have lost their lives. And, of course, also for the colleagues of these victims our deepest regret, Madam President. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u17	As announced here by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, next Friday, a vote will be presented and voted on. Parliament could not, however, have had a delay here in time on something that called for an immediate intervention by all. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the agenda, as was established. As you all know, the first point consists of political declarations, having already established the order for them to be made and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen speaking. For the PSD, Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro ; for the PS, Mr Alberto Costa ; for the CDS-PP, Mr Rui Barreto ; for the PCP, Mrs Paula Santos ; and for BE, Mrs Helena Pinto. For the first political statement this afternoon, Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « It is very monotonous to our financial history(...) spends more than we have, we lose and we pay everything with loans ». These words are not mine, they are 114 years old and were given in the Farm Report and Proposals by Anselmo de Andrade. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 114 years later, there are those who want to and do everything to keep this to be a truth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u19	To spend more than what we have, to make deficits, and to pay everything with loans. In 2010 Portugal had a deficit of 11, 2 %, the highest in our democratic history. This scenario has a face and one responsible: the responsible for the EUR 153 million spent on studies and reports associated with the TGV, the responsible for ruinous road PPPs, the responsible for the financial disaster of the School Park. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the Socialist Party of the three bankruptcys in Portugal, a Socialist Party that wants to change to be government, but that is not willing to change its way of acting. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in which it is the first political declaration in this new year of 2015, we have come here to speak of trust — of the confidence we have in the future of Portugal. In 2011 when others « threw the towel to the ground » and left us without autonomy, without hope, with the weight of a monstrous and castrating debt of the future of the new generations, we, this majority, said « yes» to Portugal. Who has no memory, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't honor your story. And it is important to remember that this government and this majority have made a relevant service in safeguarding the state and in particular our social state. No other government had to face so much debt, no other government had to correct so many mistakes from the past. And those who think that young people in Portugal are wrong because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese youth knows that debt is controlled and that Portugal is financing itself today at historic minimums. The Portuguese youth knows that the Socialist Party frozen the minimum social and rural pensions after they increased in the election year, but also knows that it was this majority and this government that updated them always above the inflation rate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese youth knows that the Socialist Party has left the school social action behind and damaged, but it also knows that the current government "has set up the house" and pays less than half of the time today to the needy students. The Portuguese youth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you know who actually defends the social state is this majority. It is that the one who values the social state is the one who pays it and the one who reformes it, and not the one who sinks it, giving it all to everyone, until there is nothing else to give. Faces and Dear Members of the Socialist Party, saving the social state is to remove the troika from Portugal, it is not put in here, as you have done. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So the Socialist Party does not come to teach us about the social state. Today we started a new political year with a new hope. We started 2015 with a country without troika and therefore with more freedom. A country without a cautious program and therefore with more autonomy. A country without such fear according to redemption and therefore with greater sovereignty. A country without the so-called recessive spiral, on the contrary, is growing most in the euro area. This is the start, this is the feeling of freedom, with which young people with hope, like me and as many others, want to start this new year, something that, four years ago, there was hardly any, in Portugal. But we are not yet satisfied and we will continue to reform Portugal. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who governs well, rules for all and not just for a class or generation. And so it is important to take care of the future. We want to continue to affirm education and qualification at the heart of the country's development model, based on greater civic, personal and political training for citizens. It is essential that all the young people who finish their compulsory training today in Portugal have basic knowledge of the functioning of the sovereignty organs and their organization. We want to continue to appreciate the student's role, the teacher's role and the regular functioning of the education system. We aim for a reorganization of the higher education network in Portugal and the redesign of a new, fairer model of its financing. We want to eliminate the current barriers to young people's access to the profession and to the labour market. Professional orders, whose role in regulating professions is fundamental, cannot continue to undermine the future of young Portuguese people. There is a need for greater coherence between the evaluation of higher education and the fair access to the exercise of a profession for which it was studied. Neither the money nor the interest of a class can override the rights of young Portuguese people. And yes, we also want to bet on innovative companies and their relationship with science. We want to reform the political system and the electoral system. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: At present, Portugal is growing. Little, it is true, for our ambition, but with forecasts of 1, 5 % by 2015 and with a renewed hope for the future. in this decisive year of 2015, here I want to leave a guarantee: that the Portuguese youth is here to contribute to the country. Finally, Madam President, I hope that Portugal will continue its course this year, towards a more just and, above all, more prosperous country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u20	To ask questions, the honourable Members signed up. Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves of PS, Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, and Rita Rato, of the PCP. He said that he would answer together, so I have the floor, first of all, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also begin by greeting Mr Simão Ribeiro wishing him a good year and also a good start as President of Social Democratic Youth. I must begin by saying that in this context of good news that apparently brings to an excellent beginning of 2015, he seems to forget that we have a risk rate of poverty of 24, 7% and that it is rising, that we have numbers of child poverty at home of 30 %, to rise every year since the current government has started its duties, and that the brain drain and the number of young people who have to emigrate to find opportunities have also been on a steady rise since this government has started its duties. But above all, and chance, sometimes it happens, that it has to be today, on the day when unemployment figures are revealed and where it is found that it is rising at all rates, in particular with regard to young unemployed people—there are 128 000 young people, the rate is 34, 5 %, the highest monthly rise in youth unemployment in the 28 Member States of the European Union, there is a 21, 4 % fall in young employment, the data are today's data— when we want to look at 2015 with optimism, with expectation, that the data work as an iron ball that happens to us once again, at the bottom and that once again they reveal that this strategy is wrong, it is a strategy of impoverishment, it is a strategy that goes, in the long term, to condemn future generations not to have a glimpse of opportunity. What they do is repeatedly repeat the same swindled talk about the deficit, about the public accounts as if, indeed, there was no possibility of resorting to mechanisms that the political economy used two centuries ago, in fact, two millennia, for situations of difficulty, allowing the economy to grow through incentives that can be public, which can be dynamized by the State. on the contrary, they use a rhetoric strictly based on the same maxim, in the same dogma, in the same obsessions that, in the last three years, have brought us no more than a structured impoverishment of our country. The question I would like to ask is whether, in this context where numbers are not positive, where we have, more than anything else, a need for priorities, ideas that can mobilize young people to the challenges that we have before us, the best thing is to reheat a talk about the TGV, about the immense responsibilities, if the best thing is to try to rewrite the story, perhaps forgetting that many of these issues that are on the agenda today and that we evaluate relate to years that are not the responsibility of the Socialist Party, but to parties that, when they went through the government, chose to subscribe international agreements with neighbouring States for the construction of five, repeat, five, high-speed transport lines.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u22	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u23	I conclude, Madam President, So we can choose two ways: or we make a serious debate based on reality, on the basis of numbers, which unfortunately are not good and that everyone in this House would like to be better, or alternatively, we only view this as an exchange of cookies without substance and without real will of change to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u24	The next question is from the Left Block. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u25	Mr President, Mr Simão Ribeiro, the PSD speaks of the former PS Government as if it had never ruled this country. PSD speaks as if it did not have its share in PPPs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u26	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u27	... as if he did not have his share in energy revenues, as if he did not have his share in bank support, as if he did not have his share in the crisis and deficit. The truth is that PS and PSD have created rotativism and both have the pleasure of sharing the blame for this process. But there's no blame left. The blame lies with a PSD that led to the crisis that created in 2007, which never wanted to control the finance and therefore contributed to the 2007 crisis. The blame lies with a PSD who, when the crisis occurs, used the financial crisis to save the banks and blame the people — that must be said. It was the fault of those who took a crisis, punished the people, removed rights and, yes, harmed the lives of young people in Portugal or any other country in Europe. The great project that prides itself and comes here today was the project that took away any hope for the future from a young person in this country, it was the project that sent young people to emigrate, it was the project that increased unemployment for young people, it was the project that made the lives of young people precarious. If you represent the young people of the PSD, I am sure you will know as well as I do the experience of our young people in this country: they are the call centers; they are the various shifts in supermarket boxes; it is emigration to London, France or the United States looking for a job or looking for something that pays better and gives a better outlook on life than we have in Portugal. The PSD/CDS government did this: it took opportunities for young people not only from work, but also from studying; it privatized education; it made the masters of access impossible for any young with little resources; it took in higher courses, transformed them into private masters, at luxury prices, into universities that are not for everyone today, it is for those who can pay. They say they value education, but punished teachers, humiliated teachers, made life in school impossible, the school year did not open in time. And they did more than that: they used the rights of our parents' generation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u28	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u29	... who conquered them the pulse, to remove rights to our generation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u30	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u31	...and this is an unacceptable blackmail and is part of the great PSD project that Mr. Deputies presents to us today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u32	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u33	I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: the honourable Member has said that no government has ever had to deal with so much debt and so many mistakes in the past. I think there's an exception: the next government. The next government is the exception to this rule that has presented us here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u34	In the meantime, the CDS informed the Bureau that it had registered a speaker who is no longer present and who makes her replace it by another, if all agree, that it will be Mrs Vera Rodrigues. The next question is PCP. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD Member has chosen to make a political statement by passing on to the problems of youth life, which are also the problems of the country. The honourable Member has deliberately chosen to shake responsibility for the worsening situation faced by young Portuguese people. I did not want to talk here about the numbers and the backwardness of child poverty, about how many family allowances have cut children and young people in our country; I did not want to talk here about the unemployment and the alternative they have, which is that of precariousness and employment many unpaid cases, through professional internships. The honourable Member also wanted to flee here to the central issue of emigration. It is important to remember that the Prime Minister of this country, as soon as he took possession, the first thing he did was tell the young Portuguese to emigrate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u36	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u37	...that they didn't need to emigrate because they didn't want to solve the problems of young Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u38	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u39	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u40	Therefore, young Portuguese people were invited to emigrate. over these almost four years, what this PSD/CDS government has done is to want to steal dreams from Portuguese youth, it is to want young people to accept that they cannot be happy in their country, it is to want young people to accept, with comfort, that it is not possible and that there is no alternative to this path of destruction of rights. What we understand is that what is needed is exactly the opposite and that there are conditions for this, there is a desire to break up with this policy. Higher education is possible for those who can and want to study in higher education, it is possible to work with rights and combat precariousness, it is possible that this generation, which is the most qualified of all, is working for the development of the country. To that end, something else is needed: the resignation of this government and a policy that fulfils the rights of young people, the right to housing, the right to education, the right to culture, the right to higher education and which, once and for all, this country bets on youth and, at the same time, on progress and on economic and social development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u41	The next question is CDS-PP. Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u42	Madam President, Mr Cristóvão Ribeiro, I begin by congratulating you on your election as President of Democratic Social Youth and wishing you all the happiness for your mandate. We're talking about young people today. And we are not wrong about the opposition we have in this Parliament, which complains about the lack of opportunities for young people, but at the same time criticizes and is against the professional stages because they consider themselves to be precarious jobs. Let me tell you, honourable Member, that this bench is going to be in line with us, and surely the Democratic Social Party's bench will be aligned with us — it would prefer a young person to take a professional course rather than a young unemployed person,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u44	... prefers a young person with a first professional experience in a company, even if it is a stage, at an initial stage, that becomes the first opportunity in a contract of employment, to have no employment. It is true that the crisis and the difficult situation that the country has experienced — and still goes — has created difficulties for young people in recent years, we do not deny it. But it is also important for us to be able to pull these young people and tell them that, in fact, they are the best-prepared generation and that they should not waste all the tools and capabilities that they have acquired and the opportunities that their own parents have not had. I would like to ask you, Mr President, even taking into account the intervention of the Socialist Party, what could be done by young people in a pre-banking country. The Socialist Party speaks with an openness as if it had nothing to do with the scenario of difficulty that the country has experienced in recent years, with the difficult measures that have been imposed on Portuguese, with a high young unemployment scenario, but which, fortunately, begins to fall. I ask you, honourable Member, what could you do for young people a country that, instead of creating jobs, destroyed jobs, which could do for young people a country that, instead of creating wealth, creating jobs and being productive and competitive, impoverished every day and couldn't get out of the recession. I believe, Mr President, that this country that the Socialist Party has left us would not be able to offer anything to anyone and that one day, when we take stock of this government's mandate, it will certainly remain for the story that its main mission was to return hope not only to the younger but to all Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u45	Mr Cristovão Simon Ribeiro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the congratulations you have given me and for the questions that have been raised to me. Taking into Mrs. Vera Rodrigues' words, I will say that I agree with everything she said. What could this majority and this government do with the money that was wasted in the TGVs, PPPs and so many other bad contracts that the previous government celebrated on behalf of the Portuguese State? Oh, my God! Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, although he is concerned about poverty and unemployment in Portugal. We are, too, a priority on our political agenda. I'm glad the ladies are here. Members are concerned, because the legacy that has left us has resulted from years of ruin and defeat of socialist management in front of the country. Yes, honourable Member, the unemployment rate that they left us is the fault of the mismanagement of the Socialist Party, is the heavy inheritance that they left us. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, let me tell you the following: today you are talking about unemployment, particularly young unemployment, and I am glad you do. But there is something curious: where have you been, Mr. Deputy and the Socialist Party bench in the last 20 months? It is because in Portugal in this period the unemployment rate has decreased steadily and gradually. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, do you know that Portugal, in terms of variation over the same period, has dropped unemployment by 1, 5 % and is among the six countries in which it has lowered the unemployment rate in the euro area? Yes, Mr. Member, how many TGVs of this life would help young Portuguese people! Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Rita Rato, the negative speech on the left of this Chamber is now chronic. But I tell you that, yes, this majority has responsibility for the deficit in public accounts. The responsibility of this majority has been to lower the Portuguese deficit in the sense of power, gradually, to relieve the tax burden on businesses and thus to tell the young people who are out there, to the young people who have been forced to emigrate, who return, because the country has open arms, has a job to give them and is willing to receive them. [[Very well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely sure that the way with sacrifices that the Portuguese have made, with the conviction of this majority and of this government, is the right way. We will work hard to improve the living conditions of young Portuguese people and on this path we will not deviate, because we are sure it is the right way and so Portugal will become a more just and prosperous country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u48	Mr Alberto Costa has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have entered a year of political resolution. About the government cycle 2011 - 2015 will review. Not an assessment to be given in Brussels, Washington or Berlin ; the trial will be issued at the places where deprivation, cut, closure, dismissal, impoverishment, escalation, fee, overtax, contribution, execution, hardship, removal, degradation and chaos of public services, encouraged desertification, inaccessible employment, loss of horizon at the age of 20 and 50, return of charity and shame, involuntary exit, death of expectant. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No story about the future can remove this reality, because no one forgets his own life and the sense of democracy is that they themselves decide from their lives. When the voters raise the rulers, first of all, the fear of being able to throw everything away, it is the triumph, within them, of the vision of the rating agency on political risk. The Coelho Pass Government has printed a deep mark on our society. Beyond the accumulation of cuts and colossal tax extraction directed at people, this government has led to millions of lives instability, insecurity, uncertainty and aggravated inequality as a daily perception. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The protection of trust, legal certainty, equality in the distribution of public charges, proportionality, presumption of innocence itself received repeated blows in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fundamental principles and distinctive features of the culture of the rule of law were faced in a kind of constitutional conduct borderline, which, in many key moments, violated the line of demarcation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u51	Reactions to the decisions of the Constitutional Court of unimaginable content, for example in Berlin, revealed a persistent subculture in which sanctions to be applied to the recalcitrant court were publicly called for. An ex-Minister of Steps Rabbit now confesses that he gave firm instructions to the Secretary of State to pull the limits of the Constitution. Legal certainty was the subject of a selective understanding which was inappropriate in a legal order based on the principle of equality. While it was imperative to reject successive amendments to the tax rules applicable to companies, five revisions of the Labour Code were promoted in three years in a discriminatory and perverse message for the people who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u53	In addition to the objectives achieved, the measures that represented the will of the government, but which it could not change to reality, such as the intended reformulation of the TSU (unique social rate) and the successive measures that were brought about by unconstitutionality, have conveyed to society the idea that if the government depended on itself, it would have done worse and, from the point of view of the rule of law, it would have done much worse. Each measure invalidated or removed was an image of what the government was doing and of its political character. Because the character reveals not only what one can do, but what one wants to do and is prevented from doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government may believe, in its final right, that if only the laws of the market had legal force and the principles of the rule of law were purely semantic and, by now, the judges well chosen, their work would have been better. If we asked the Portuguese if the government could have done better these years, if it were not the constitutional limits, the initiatives and decisions that made them effective, we would see that the vast majority would do their portrait and accurately identify their character, and that would not run away. After three State budgets weighing the principles of the rule of law, it is not thought that the 2015 Budget represents a change of culture. It is only the result of a change of method, induced by the electoral year. The Government has now chosen a way that has exempted it from receiving the news from a fourth unconstitutional budget within a few months of the elections. A procedure was initiated which led to a rejection by the Constitutional Court in August which, without this innovation, would also affect the budgetary law itself this year. In other words, the solutions truly dear to the government to integrate the 2015 State Budget — let us remember the so-called sustainability contribution — implied, as has already been shown, the violation of the principles of the rule of law. Some argue that this vision is insufficiently Europeanist and that different parameters are now required. Double mistake! First of all, in our Constitution, the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law constitute a limit to the primacy of Union law. A limit made expressed, not for decades, but in the 2004 constitutional review. Secondly, in the Treaty of Lisbon, in addition to the values of the rule of law that have always been reaffirmed, the Union is bound by respect for the identity of each State, reflected in its fundamental constitutional structures. When the name of the European Union is used to cover criticisms of a small increase in the minimum wage of a Member State, or when the ECB, as it is now known, has been allowed to write to out-of-election prime ministers prescribing detailed changes to be introduced into labour laws, we can limit ourselves to thinking that there is a mistake in the subject or error in judgment. But, in fact, those who let that mistake exist are wrong about themselves, about the European Union and about its mission and the values and limits to which they are subject. And this error is eloquent about the way in which it has prevailed and is moving the Union away from more and more Europeans. at one point the European argument is right. What is to be done today requires the projection of a new capacity and an autonomous voice at European level. Not the same, a new voice. If the Government of a Member State adopts the typical position of a special administrative region, faithful to the pattern and desires of a central power, or of a central power, or of a central Member State, this only contributes to the discharacterization of the Union, of itself and its citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The true good student, in a union such as the European Union, is not the Member State which distinguishes itself in subordination to today's dominant direction, is what can distinguish itself in the contribution to changing it, evolving and taking place in the direction of tomorrow. This will then be the year of evaluation and decision. And it is good not to undermine the evaluation of initiatives that suggested indifference and dilution of responsibilities, in the name of democracy, in the name of participation and in the name of choice. Without confusing the times, with a spirit of responsibility, the PS faces this choice with confidence, with confidence in the choice of Portuguese. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u54	Mr Alberto Costa, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from the Members. Members Hugo Lopes Soares, PSD, Cecilia Honorio, BE, Antonio Filipe, PCP, and Hélder Amaral, CDS-PP. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Alberto Costa informed the Bureau that he intends to respond to two requests for clarification. You have the floor, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u55	Madam President, I am glad to wish you all a good year. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Alberto Costa, without hiding behind the words, I will immediately put a very direct question to you and ask you to also be direct, transparent and clear in the answer you will give me. In his political statement, he said that this was a government that violated the principle of presumption of innocence. Well, I would like to ask Mr Alberto Costa the following: when, who and how? It is that Mr. Deputy is not a Member of any of the Socialist Party's bench. The honourable Member has a special responsibility, because he was the Minister of Justice, and a statement such as this in Parliament deserves to be clarified, deserves to be clear and transparent. The honourable Member has an obligation before the country and before the House to clarify what it meant. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u56	It's true! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u57	Mr Alberto Costa referred several times to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, those decisions which, moreover, the Government and this majority have always reacted. They have argued several times, but they have condemned them, as it should be in democracy and as it should be in the proper functioning of the institutions. This majority and this government do not subordinate justice, they respect it, wait for its time, let justice work and do not weave the considerations that Mr has just woven. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Brands Member of the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho spoke. You did well, sir! The marks of the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho are as follows: the reduction of the deficit of about 11% to the lowest deficit of our democratic history, to 2.7 next year; the control of public debt; having told the troica to leave when you called it; having finished with the structures of the state that long ago should have ended and that you never had the courage to do so; having recast the structural reforms. [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member has spoken — with great boldness! — on the revisions to the labour code. Madam President, we all remember what they said about the revision of the labour code. They said it would facilitate layoffs and increase unemployment. Well, unemployment has been declining 20 consecutive months and you haven't said a word! [[PS and PCP protests.]] Today, there has been an increase in unemployment in the past month to talk about the growth of unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u58	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u59	I'm done now, Madam President. Mr President, at first I said that I was not hiding behind the words. Mr Alberto Costa, with all due respect, you and many of those who now follow you in the front row of your bench are the face of bankruptcy, the face of the troika and the face that has taken hope away from our country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u60	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u61	Madam President, Mr Alberto Costa, with all due regard and respect for us, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement, which has also already had the advantage, almost historically, of making here a lifting of threats to the rule of law...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u62	The direct state worked! You don't like it, but it worked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u63	... that the Portuguese people have suffered over these three years. He gave up some important examples, particularly those who had even ordered to extend the Constitution until they could exceed it. It's good to remember that she has suffered numerous kicks. They do not reach the fingers of one hand to recognize the steps taken by the Constitution by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u65	He also pointed out some examples in the sense of selective justice, further to the poorest, to the most disadvantaged. It is clear that all the amendments to the judicial map, which we are debating here so far, have made justice more distant for the most disadvantaged, and this is also an essential debate on democracy. The honourable Member, recognizing his Europeanism and his commitment to Europe, including in the area of the published work, has left us here the feeling that we want to talk about a Europe which is not exactly this one. The image set here by the foundations of a somewhat mythified Europe is certainly not the Europe of the directory and power of Mrs Merkel. in this sense, Mr President, I would like to leave you a fundamental question: between the state-of-the-art constitution, as you well recognised here, and the budgetary treaty, in what way should we put ourselves? To what extent does Mr Alberto Costa, as a recognised Europeanist, want to put it? Is it possible to continue to defend the Constitution, in its rights, in its fundamental pillars, the defense of social security, the defense of the National Health Service, this enormous conquest of democracy, the defense of the public school, today so violently threatened?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u66	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u67	Is it possible to do so and to continue to look at and lower your head before the budget treaty? Mr Alberto Costa, from our point of view this is a crucial issue for next year. He spoke to us about a year of decision, a year of evaluation. The Portuguese people will make this assessment, but they will not be able to do so without the seriousness and frontality of this discussion. Constitution or budget treaty? How are we going to do, Mr. Alberto Costa? Do you think it is possible to continue to defend the Constitution and at the same time to say that the budget treaty is to be fulfilled? We understand that it is not, but I believe it is possible that it will give us a profound answer to this fundamental question about the future of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u68	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Alberto Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u69	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I can only recommend that you read the Constitutional Court's ruling that, by invoking the principle of presumption of innocence, you unanimously approved a legislative initiative in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I said was that this principle had been struck on this initiative. If you want to change the sense of vote of these judges you will want more than those who just wanted to change the way they choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u71	However, I do not want to fail to address an exhausting argument that times suggest that it will be a great electoral argument, which will be the argument that voters should review and reassess what happened before the 2011 elections. The Socialist Party lost the elections in 2011, most won these elections. On the one hand, you seem to want to violate a democratic principle, which is to repeat the evaluation already made in the elections... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and, on the other hand, look for a result in the most perverse way. I would like to explain: you seem to want to establish a kind of appeal. They have won, but they want to review your result at a high level—that can only be the goal—and review our result below. This is the most perverse of aspirations, because in the next results you will see that your result is reviewed down and ours is reviewed up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u72	That's futurology!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u73	Overconfidence! Presumption!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u74	I don't understand the logic of that result. This is a foolish way of putting themselves in an unsustainable position tomorrow, because the judgment coming out of the next elections will also be a judgment on your argument of the present and even on the essential point of your argument. Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I thank you for your words and I would like to say to you, firstly, that I am asking you to publicly acknowledge the role of the Members of the Left Block in the feasibility of the first request for a declaration of unconstitutionality of the first State budget of this Government for 2011. This contribution has been important and shows a commitment to defend the rule of law which I would like to stress. As for Europe, and the budgetary treaty, time does not allow us to develop this matter, but I would like to say that both the PS and I have tabled explanations of vote when we vote on the budget treaty. Although we recognized in the content a number of reasons that could justify a negative vote, we, in terms of ethic of responsibility, as we would say in the weberian language, understand, and I personally understood, that the consequences of not having at that time approved, for ratification, would be worse than those resulting from its approval. This is still my point of view, it is still the PS's point of view and therefore there is no way of running away from responsibilities. Another path, which today would be counterfactual, would lead to worse consequences for our country, but at another time we can discuss the issues of the European Union which are, of course, far broader than the issues of the budget treaty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u75	Mr António Filipe has the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u76	Mr President, Mr Alberto Costa, I would like to begin by saying hello to you for your speech, but it leaves us with the feeling that we have only heard the first part and missed the second part. With the first part, essentially, we agree, that is to say, we fully agree with the honourable Member's diagnosis of the destructive nature of this government's policy. In fact, he is right about the lack of democratic culture of this government, about the disrespect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, about the country's policy of impoverishment, a policy of austerity which condemned the country to a backward meaning by the Portuguese on its day-to-day, so I would say that, as far as criticism of this government is concerned, we are talking about it. But part two is missing. Mr Deputies pointed out from the rostrum — and very well — that the year we enter will be a year of evaluation, it will be a year when the Portuguese will be called to take options and, being one year of evaluation, there are two possible attitudes: one is to expect this government and this majority to be condemned in the polls by the Portuguese, as is our conviction that they will be, and then wait for the defeat of others to benefit from it; the second attitude is to say what we want and what solutions we have for the country, and I have not heard anything about that part, which I consider essential, in its intervention. At the end of the speech, he referred to the European Union and criticized the passive position of the current government, of the acrylic acceptance of the European Union's taxes that led the country to politics and the situation we all know. We can, therefore, presume benevolently, that the honourable Member was not very clear about this, that the Socialist Party would want a less passive attitude, more intervention within the European Union. But the question is this: if any less passive speech by the European Union does not produce results and a ruler with another speech that does not reach Portugal today and tell the Portuguese "well, we spoke, but they did not listen to us and want to continue condemning us to austerity"...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u77	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u78	I conclude, Madam President, until it is said that I have made only the first part of the request for clarification. Mr President, the question is this: is it possible for you to consider another policy within the constraints imposed on Portugal by the Budget Treaty?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u80	Does the honourable Member believe that another policy is possible within the constraints of the debt that the country is facing without serious renegotiation of the debt?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u82	These are the issues that I would like you to have answered in your speech, but we have not yet lost hope and perhaps you want to put something more forward on this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u83	For a question, Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u84	Mr President, Mr Alberto Costa, I have listened to you carefully and with the consideration that I deserve and, as I listened to you, I would ask a question: is it that Mr Alberto Costa does not have a very small weight in his awareness of the intervention he has just done in this Parliament? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u85	It is that the honourable Member has been the ruler of the previous government and that the current government has been of a destructive nature. Perhaps we will not understand here, because the lives of the Portuguese have a painful sign of the government's mark that you were part of. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u86	These are sacrifices your government has accepted, negotiated and signed. Whatever the indexes or institutions, there are data that I could compare one to one, but I will not have time for that, so I remind you only that of the budget balance and, if you want, that of the primary balance which, at present, was less than 929 million and now is more than 1168 million, perhaps the best result since there is data. But I could give you other data. I can even accept as good the narrative that the government was even bad, but was tried in the polls. It remains to be known what the Socialist Party did, that it wants to be an alternative to the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u88	I can say that the Socialist Party does not like our Labour Code, but it was this Code that reduced unemployment, while the Labour Code of the Socialist Party always increased unemployment until it left the Government, even when conditions were more favourable than those that this Government had to face. I could still say that the Socialist Party has always been a collaborative party, it has always been a party next to the Portuguese and always with solutions to mitigate the sacrifices it has caused to the country itself. Is that how it was in the reform of social security, Member of the Commission? Is it in a committee that we want to set up here for state reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u89	Well, remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u90	Is this the way to review and reform tax? In other words, the Socialist Party has always escaped responsibility,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u91	...he has always fled to the debate, has always silenced his weapon of politics and has now been hiding behind the Constitutional Court as this is the true opposition to this government. Mr President, we have already been told, and I repeat: we do not always agree with the Constitutional Court, but we always respect the decisions and comply with our policy of decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u92	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u93	Mr President, I conclude by saying that I have noticed some discomfort at the Socialist Party's bench — some Members have kicked their feet, others have not said anything. And I even know I've heard a new agenda for the decade. But today I heard an interesting phrase: « do not leave for the next decade what you can do now». And what you can do now is tell us what the Socialist Party is coming from. Tell me what the proposals are, the solutions to the problems you identified in the gallery. What are the problems of the Socialist Party, Mr? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u94	To reply, Mr Alberto Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u95	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, the Socialist Party has already announced the time when it will present its government programme. It would provide a great service if, at the time of the evaluation of the government work, it would introduce its own program alongside and at the same time. This kind of contribution to the disruption of your evaluation, because the object would not affect your government work, would be fundamental. That is why our programme should be maintained, and this is part of the democratic rules: evaluation should not be disrupted. Mr. Hélder Amaral, the governments I was a member of were tried in 1999 and 2009. The election results were what they were, the PS was also judged in the next legislature in 2011. He's been tried! And the idea of, at all times, planning a new trial for the next elections...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u96	To escape responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u97	...about what was done is, I repeat, a deeply perverse idea. It is perverse because it will not achieve what it aims and is perverse because it will not succeed in illuminating your government work of judgment to the extent of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u99	Therefore, the day after the next elections you will see that the merit of this repetitive propaganda, which looks to the past in the hope of winning an 'appeal' over the last elections, will determine that this appeal will be lost. Get ready to lose it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr António Filipe, I have already explained to you why our government proposals will be explained later, and there is a basis for this: the evaluation should not be disturbed. at that time, you will have many details about what we intend to do. But the honourable Member already knows that, between our parties, and since our origin as a Socialist Party, there are great differences and there are aspects where it is not possible to hide the premises and the different projects in which we belong. This does not mean that these aspects, related to the defence of the rule of law, should not be the object of an effort and convergence in which we can find ourselves. That is why I end by saying that I still hope that the Communist Party will explain to its voters why it did not wish to subscribe and join the first initiative to challenge the State budget for 2012, subscribing the request addressed to the Constitutional Court, as proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u100	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by speaking to you - of the word hope, telling you - that 2015 will be the year in which it will be repeated by all, and in all forums - in the Continent, in this electoral act that approaches itself, but also in the circle where I was elected and which I represent, Madeira. Words exist to be used and, fortunately, they are not spent, but gain or lose strength according to the legitimacy of those who use them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u103	Let us, then, speak to the President and to the Members. Members, on the legitimacy of the use of the word hope, but let us do so with concrete data, because it is concrete that we should leave rather than from imaginary territories. First of all, let us go to the acts of the government and, above all, to the results that have been achieved. Where were we at the end of 2013, beginning of 2014? In December 2013, according to INE data, the unemployment rate was 15, 4 % ; in 2014, it was 13, 9 %. Is this the ideal situation? No, it is not, but it represents an ongoing effort by those who rule, to combat, in a concrete way, the one who is recognised as a huge social scourge. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u104	It represents the effort that has been made by the Government and by all Portuguese and that has been gradually producing results. The aim is to give the Portuguese economy conditions to grow sustainably and to create more and better jobs. This effort legitimates the use of the word hope. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to other data. in the same period, the public primary balance was negative at EUR 929 million. Well, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, between January and October 2014, although all the negative predictions made by the usual prophets of misfortune, by those who often prefer to destroy to build, prefer to divide together, the public primary balance has reached positive values, more specifically of 1168 million euros positive. Question : is the ideal situation? No, it is not, but again, it represents an effort to consolidate and effectively improve public accounts, that which is government effort, but which is also Portuguese and has produced results, thus legitimizing the use of the word hope. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let's go to other data. In 2013, there was a decrease in GDP, which declined 1, 4 %. What happened between January and October 2014? There was a growth of 1, 1 % — data for the third quarter of 2014, compared with the same period of 2013. in the third quarter of 2014, private consumption increased by 2, 7% compared to the same period of the previous year, the turnover of retail trade increased by 1, 3 %, the investment increased by 3, 7 % compared to the previous same period. Exports of goods and services, Madam President and Mrs. Members grew by 2, 8 % between January and October 2014 when they had grown by 6, 4 % since the previous year. The current balance balance, including goods, services and capital, was EUR 3397 million. Tourism indicators, which are frankly good, are an excellent tonic for 2015. In short, the Portuguese economy has been growing, which has not happened for many years. This legitimate growth, too, the use of the word hope. There are other data. The two-year public debt interest rate reached historic minimums, i.e. on 22 December last year was 0, 43 %; one year ago it was 2, 85 %. In December 2014 the interest rates for public debt at 5 and 10 years respectively were 1, 4 % and 2, 6 % when at the end of 2013 they were 4, 8 % and 6 %. We can, Madam President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, scaling up more data and indicators and, if we do, we will find more positive news. We thus have reason to say that in 2015 the Government can legitimately tell the Portuguese that it is possible to have hope in a better future, that it is possible to make Portugal a more prosperous, fairer country capable of generating more opportunities for all, able, at last, to take the place it deserves among the great nations. The same cannot be done — to use with ownership the word hope— who always opposed all the changes and political decision-making, who disrespected the sacrifices of the Portuguese on the basis of the theory of how much better, who pushed Portugal into the abyss, who never wanted consensus, who never realized that the tragic situation that we arrived in 2011 was due to irresponsibility in decision-making, to populism, to the lack of ability to define priorities, who, in short, always put their electoral interests in front of the interests of the next generations. In 2015, the word hope will be widely used, but the Portuguese will pay attention to whom, in fact, has greater ownership to use it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Wishing a good year for all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that there is also a moment of political change in Madeira. At the end of the first quarter of this year, we will have regional elections. I would like to stress that the year began with the approval of a proposal from the CDS-PP Madeira. It was approved yesterday at the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a good proposal for the country, for citizenship and for Madeira : it ended the abrupt financing of the parties in Madeira, at the expense of the taxpayers. The CDS-PP Madeira, leader of the opposition, has been able to make opposition with responsibility and high added value. We have marked the pace of reforms with this proposal, as we have done with so many others. [[PS protests.]] A new cycle is now opening up in Madeira, and so there are enormous challenges we have to face. Madeirans are those who pay the most taxes in Portugal and therefore it is legitimate and necessary to mitigate their effects. It is necessary to renegotiate more acceptable and more adjusted tax conditions. We therefore wish to standardise institutional relations with the Republic. In 2015, Ms. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a lot of hope. Sadly, many of those who will use it will not do so with total legitimacy. The Government may legitimately give the floor. in Madeira, the CDS-PP Madeira can, and should, take itself not as the owner of the word, because of owners is the Madeira full, but as effective carrier of a new hope. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u105	To ask for clarification, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy entered in writing. Mr Jacinto Serran and Mr Hugo Velosa. I don't know how Mr Rui Barreto wants to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u106	Individually, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u107	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u108	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, I would like to congratulate you on your intervention, but allow me to tell you that, in fact, when you hear your speech of hope about the future, it is appropriate to say that, in the eyes of the CDS, the country is better, but the people do not really feel these improvements. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member speaks of a set of new policies that are necessary to give this hope to the Portuguese people and, of course, also to the Madeiran people. In fact, new policies are needed, but another government is needed to implement these policies, to remove the country from the path of poverty, poverty and poverty where the PSD and CDS government push the country and the Portuguese. With regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, he well knows, as I do, that the Government of the Garden has led Madeira to bankruptcy, to a state of insolvency, as we all have. And, of course, Alberto João Jardim's successor, which is a reliant copy of Alberto João Jardim and complicit in governance policies at regional level,... [[PSD protests.]] ...it is not a solution to the problems of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. New policies are needed in the region, a new government. But it must be said that there are omissions and complicities from the Government of the Republic, that CDS is part of, as we all know. And it is not worth being here to shake the responsibility of the CDS at national level in regional policies as if we were shaking water from the hood. And here I am leaving a few questions for the honourable Member to answer: because the Government of the Republic, which the CDS is part of, refused to cooperate with justice for the clearance of the illegalities of the hidden debt in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, made by the Government of the Garden. Why, sir? It also says why the Government of the Republic applied a rescue plan in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, demanded the Madeirans a double austerity, and it was very quick to apply it to the Madeirans and businesses, but never required the Garden Government to solve the problems of public-private partnerships, which cost 10 % of the budget of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, of the development societies, and also the little shame of the Madeira Journal, which has a liability of EUR 50 million and which survives about EUR 3 million / year of the Regional Budget. Because the Government of the Republic, which the CDS is part of, was quick to apply dual austerity to Madeirans and businesses, but never demanded the Government of Jardim to end its deviations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u109	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u110	... that led Madeira to this chaos of insolvency and bankruptcy, as we all know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u111	To reply, Mr Rui Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u112	Mr President, Mr Jacinto Serrão, I thank you for your comments and your questions. The honourable Member, who came from Madeira, who knows it so well, made here a set of criticisms that are reasonable in relation to a style of governance, but forgot to say one thing: it was that he had the ability to identify the problems to which Madeira arrived, but he could not see in national territory the same circumstances that were applied in Madeira that led to the signing of the Economic and Financial Adjustment Plan. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u113	The honourable Member cannot remove the 'glasses'. He was able to see these problems in Madeira, but he could not understand the causes, which unfortunately were the same, which was over-independence, and which led to unemployment, rescue and pre-banking. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u114	I would like you to have done that analysis. Sir, I'm very comfortable. You know why? I am very comfortable, because the CDS, in the same way that criticized the Socialist Party for the way it managed Portugal, always criticized, fairly and legitimately, the way Dr. Jardim has ruled over the past 14 years. We are very comfortable about this. And perhaps it would be interesting, Mr. honourable Member, who also led and so well knows the Socialist Party in Madeira, which explained why, after more than 30 years, the CDS is the leader of the opposition in Madeira, having relegated the Socialist Party to third party. [[Well remembered!]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u115	It must be for some reason, it must be the way the CDS has always met the challenges of Madeira and in which the Maderians have also reverted. Mr, we have many challenges ahead and a new cycle that will open up in Madeira. Therefore, it is important to set pace with those who have always spoken the truth, with those who have always said what should be said and who have predicted the situation at which we have arrived. Therefore, it is important, in this new cycle that will begin the short term, normalize institutional relations with the Government of the Republic, which have been co-arted and have had a style that has led to an asphyxiation in the institutional relationship. The CDS is available for this standardization, which constitutes a longing for the people of Madeira. The people of Madeira can count on the CDS, with all their collaboration, so that these relations can be normalised and that together we can take Madeira from its situation, return hope to the Madeirans and, as I said earlier, so that those who are the Portuguese who pay more taxes in Portugal can see their life relieved, with a new government, with a new hope. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u116	The next request for clarification to Mr Rui Barreto will be made by Mr Hugo Velosa of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u117	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, I would like to say to you that in this sitting we are generally expressing our agreement to what I have said, to the tone of what I have said, to the hope that you have most used — that we all have in relation to what has been the governance of Portugal and to the future of this country. I would therefore like to congratulate you on that. I am sorry, but I would first of all like to address Mr Jacinto Serrão — of course I would ask him to clarify — to tell him that he has used a written copy language here. [[Protests by PS MP Jacinto Serra.]] With regard to this issue of copying them, I mean that for the Socialist Party of Madeira it must be very difficult to arrange copies. The Socialist Party of Madeira is currently the third party of the Region. The Socialist Party of Madeira has a leader that no one knows what they want or what they're going to do. I believe that the word "hope" could also be used in relation to the Socialist Party, because there is hope and there is a party in Madeira that has a new leader and that it has always been power in the region, the Socialist Party should also think about it, in order to have some hope that one day there will be something in the region that has never been. [[It won't even be!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u118	That is the problem of the Socialist Party of Madeira. Not even a hard copy can fix. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] [[PS protests.]] With regard to Mr Rui Barreto, I would like to say the following: I heard the honourable Member make an intervention, saying that the word « hope » should be used in relation to the Continent and Madeira. All right! As you know, we have a new leader, the word "hope" is the word we have to use in relation to this new leader and the PSD, and I am therefore sure that Mr Rui Barreto will also agree with that situation. He spoke of the issue of grants to parties in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. On this point, I would like to say the following: there is no one who does not agree with what has happened today in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But I have to leave you a question on this. We all know that the PSD opposed this reduction in subsidies. But I ask: did the CDS ever give up subsidies? What did the CDS do to the grants in the region? This also applies to the Socialist Party and other parties in the region. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u119	Therefore, this issue has to be raised with frontality, without any intention of offending the role of the parties in the region, but there is one thing that is perfectly clear: the parties have never renounced this subsidy. So I put this question to say the following: the CDS-PP is a very necessary party at the country level and for the governance of this country, and yet the CDS is with that governance. In the region, however, it must have the same attitude, even if it is opposed to speaking truth, to make an opposition which is useful for the Autonomous Region of Madeira and its future. I finish by saying that if the PSD / Madeira had a change in its leadership, which brings us all a great hope, using what I said about hope...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u120	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u121	I will finish, Madam President. I would like to leave this question to you, Mr President: do not the other opposition parties, who have opposed all their lives in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, also need to have hope and change leadership? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u122	I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect intervention times. To reply, Mr Rui Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u123	Madam President, I welcome Mr Hugo Velosa, my fellow from Madeira, and I would like to congratulate, through you, the new leadership and the new President of the PSD / Madeira, who was recently elected, that I hope it will be consistent with what you have been saying and that it will do everything you have to discuss in these elections in Madeira. The honourable Member spoke about the subsidies, which were approved yesterday. And it was approved because this has been an ongoing CDS fight in Madeira... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u124	... and because, wisely, the CDS has brought this proposal to Parliament to deserve its approval now and so on. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u125	It was a legitimate fight for many years. And I also respond to what has been done to the value of subsidies. Mr Deputy, it was very simple: the CDS has been fighting so clearly on this issue that since 2011 it has delivered 30 % of the grants to social solidarity entities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That's what the CDS has done, that's what it says. And I give you a guarantee: I think the PSD has been renewed, but I am not yet sure that it can come out of some tights that still persist. I therefore assure you that the CDS will mark the pace of the reforms, will have the same tenacity as it brought this proposal to the regional Parliament. And it will take others, because they are necessary! The CDS is a party that has made a responsible and assertive opposition and knows what are the subjects of Maderians who are on the agenda and who are important to solve. Therefore, the CDS will always force, for the benefit of the Maderians, that these changes are made and effectively realized. Madeirans know that CDS has the same voice here as it has in Madeira. And he also knows of positions I myself take in this Parliament when I understand that not always some policies or decisions have been fair to the people of Madeira. And the honourable Member, who I believe will now also continue to be connected to the party with this new leadership, as it has been for many years, also knows that many mistakes have been made that have brought us to the situation we have today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u126	Therefore, collectively, we all have to work, at the regional level and at the Republic level, to solve the problem of the country and also the problem of Madeira, which afflicts the Madeirans so much that they deserve a short-term solution, to give them hope back, to mitigate their sacrifices and to improve their lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Rui Barreto. The political declaration by the CDS this afternoon concludes here. The next political statement from the CFP will be made by Mrs Paula Santos. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2015 begins at a time of profound degradation of the country's political, economic and social situation. contrary to the end of the black clouds, announced by the Prime Minister, the new year will not bring new life but, yes, more exploitation and impoverishment of workers, more unemployment, emigration and inequalities, and more difficulties in access to fundamental rights. PSD and CDS-PP insist on misleading the people with lies and mistifications, insist on the the thesis of the clean exit of the troika or economic recovery, but what is real is that today the workers, the reformers and the people live worse and that the policy of the troika remains, as reflected in the measures contained in the State budget. unlike these false promises and announcements, what the PSD/CDS government reserved for Portuguese in 2015 are more difficulties in the lives of those who work. The beginning of the year is confirming the same: increased tax burden on workers and the people; redundancies in the Public Administration ; new cuts in education, health and local power; continued privatizations of strategic enterprises such as TAP. It is this old life that the PSD/CDS government has to offer to the Portuguese in the new year, confirming that there is no remedy that applies to right-wing policy. Without defeating this government and the right-wing policy it implements, there is no solution to national problems. Mr. President and Mrs. Members: The year 2014 came to an end by making clear the framework for social, economic and political degradation to which right-wing policy has led the country and national life. New cases of economic crimes, flight and money laundering, harmful management, fraud and corruption have been brought to the public, which are a direct consequence of right-wing policy, as evidenced by the golden visas, sponsored by Paulo Portas, or the scandal of BES / GES. What the government is preparing for 2015 is more than that. Public administration workers will have new cuts in wages, pensions and more lay-offs. of the 12 000 workers that the government now wants to fire from the Public Administration, joining the 80 000 who have left since 2011, there are 700 workers of social security in the front line for dismissal through requalification. On the eve of a new year, the government released the list with the names of the workers to be fired. No valid arguments are known for this decision. These workers play permanent roles in social security and of enormous importance in supporting children or the elderly, so their dismissal is explained only by the government's strategy of destruction of public services and the State's social functions. with regard to social security, the Government insists on the same path of breakdown of pensions and cuts in social benefits. To the more than 600,000 children to whom the family allowance was cut, the government added more than 1700, only between October and November. As regards unemployment, the latest official data tell us that it has increased, with more than 30 000 workers in unemployment compared to the same period and the destruction of more than 25 300 jobs. This ruin for the lives of workers contrasts with the privileges and benefits of large economic and financial groups. In order to feed the insatiable gula of the speculators and the avocados, which accumulate wealth at the expense of labour income and of the looting of public resources, 2015 begins with the process of privatization of the current TAP. Privatizing TAP, a public enterprise in a strategic sector of our economy, is politically and economically criminal. The TAP must be at the service of Portuguese and national interest, under public control and not of any economic group. in another way, it can be seen that if the beginning of this school year was a disaster, there are problems that remain unresolved. on the first day of class in 2015, about 700 students with special needs had no classes. What has happened is nothing more than the reflection of de-investment in public school and the option of non-enlargement of the public network in special education to continue financing private entities. The result is in sight of all: the penalized are students and their families. Mr. President and Mrs. Members: at the end of 2014 and at the beginning of 2015, the country was again provided by the negative with the consequences of the policy of de-investment in health and reality to deny the government's propaganda. The situation of hospital emergencies and their rupture is not a point problem and it is not today, it is frequent, it has come from a long time ago and has been worsening. The high waiting times for hospital emergency services, 22 hours at Amadora-Sintra Hospital and Santa Maria da Feira Hospital, or 18 hours at Évora Hospital, or the absence of medical care for the two people who died in emergency services have causes and responsible: the health policy of this government. The disinvestment in the National Health Service, the limitation in the hiring of health professionals, the incentive to precariousness and instability led to a huge shortage of health professionals, the reduction of the response capacity of public hospitals and the degradation of health care provided. The subcontracting of health professionals lacking through temporary work enterprises is not part of the solution to solve the shortage of professionals but part of the problem, because it implies a huge turnover of health professionals, disrespects the concept of team, health professionals do not know the organization and do not recognize the hierarchy and still consume financial resources that could be channeled to the hiring of health professionals integrated into a career, guaranteeing their rights and professional development. On the other hand, there was also a reduction in the number of acute beds in hospitals of the National Health Service. Between 2011 and 2013, the country lost 944 beds of acute. The lack of beds for hospitalization has also contributed to the high waiting times for hospital emergency services, forcing ambulances to stay in long hours hospitals because they have no bed to put the patient and release the maca, running the risk of ambulances not available for other emergencies, compromising the relief to other people. The resolution of this problem does not deal with palliatives. It is necessary once and for all to end the hiring of companies and to integrate in the framework the health professionals in need, creating conditions for their fixation and valuing their careers. The CFP will deliver a legislative initiative in this regard. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solution to national problems is not in right-wing policy. It is more than demonstrated that this policy is the cause of the problems of the workers, the people and the country and that only the rupture with this policy can open up space for its resolution. As the people have been complaining and fighting, the resignation of this government is urgent, but it is also necessary to break with the right-wing policy and to build an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy. in early 2015, the commitment we reiterate with all Portuguese is to continue to fight for the construction of this alternative with confidence and hope in the future. Trust in the struggle and unity of workers, reformers, young people, democrats, patriots and all those who want to put an end to this path of political, economic and social backwardness and resume the path of the values of April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u129	Mrs. Members, the Bureau recorded the inscriptions, to ask questions, of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, PS, Helena Pinto, the Left Block, and Carla Rodrigues, the PSD and Mrs Paula Santos informed you that they will answer individually. Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Communist Party and Mrs Paula Santos on having come here, in a kind of 2014 balance sheet and the launch of 2015, to do an analysis of several topics that are the concern of Portuguese society and that they have included the issue of health and, specifically, the situation in hospital emergencies. The Socialist Party believes that this is also a very topical issue, and for that reason, yesterday, it called for the scheduling, for tomorrow's plenary meeting, of a current debate on this subject. The Communist Party is accompanying us in this concern and we welcome it. in early 2015, it is important to look at and evaluate what the Portuguese are most concerned, in a country that is getting older and with a population that, being older, is also poorer and more fragile. Therefore, health services should increasingly function as an answer that can address the deficiencies that have been occurring. Also, according to the political options of this Government, social support and what is happening in other key sectors for Portuguese society, such as the education sector, in fact, this week, we have verified the lack of funding for special education establishments, and we are concerned, so we will all be following up on those who, at the beginning of this year, make such an assessment. Tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to return to the issue of hospital emergencies, as we announced yesterday. We took good note of the concern you have expressed here and we would just like to know, if the honourable Member has a chance, some of the Communist Party's proposals to mitigate these negative effects of the right-wing policy that the country has been pursuing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u131	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u132	Madam President, I welcome Mrs Luísa Salgueiro and thank you for your question. In fact, Portuguese today are faced with numerous problems and numerous difficulties and I stressed the difficulties in access to fundamental rights. The honourable Member mentioned the social benefits as well as education, health, aspects that we have put in our intervention and which our Constitution actually enshrines, but that many Portuguese people are deprived of access to those rights. Mrs. Member, the CFP has presented a wide range of proposals to defend the National Health Service. In fact, we are not left by rhetoric and present concrete proposals that meet those who are the constitutional principles of universal, public and free of charge to health for all. in this sense, we have proposed, for example, to repeal moderate rates, because they constitute an obstacle to access to health care, to the transport of non-emergency patients to all patients and users who need this instrument in order to be able to access health care, be it consultation, examinations, treatment, surgery, to prevent the concentration of services and the closure of services both at the level of primary health care and at the level of hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u134	In fact, the CFP has presented numerous proposals. We are also concerned about issues related to the hiring of professionals. In fact, the situation we are currently living in our country in hospital emergency services is not a timely situation, occurs very often from north to south of the country and is due not only to the shortage of professionals, but also to the de-investment and reduction of the capacity to respond to which hospitals have been subjected. Madam Member, in view of this set of proposals and positions which the CFP has been presenting, it is also worth knowing the opinion of the Socialist Party and knowing what commitments it has made with regard to these concrete proposals, this view, the solutions proposed by the CFP to the Assembly of the Republic, with a view to ensuring that all users, all Portuguese, are free from discrimination and that everyone is entitled to access to health care and health care. It is this commitment that we also liked to know from the Socialist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u135	The next question is from the Left Block. Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u136	Madam President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would also like to congratulate you, you and your parliamentary group, for the intervention you have given in making a little of the 2014 balance sheet and opening up the few perspectives that exist for the year 2015, if the same policies continue as the government has carried out so far. The honourable Member has listed a number of sectors of the life of Portuguese society, the life of men and women, workers and workers, which are indeed a reality. We can draw a conclusion from now on: the government, the majority, the PSD and the CDS have made a lot of propaganda about what they almost dare to say is the liberation of the country because the troika has left. The troika may have left — because still it did not come out entirely — but its policy, its policy of austerity, remains here. It remains and is the mark of all actions and of all government proposals. in this respect, there is not one change, therefore, austerity continues to mark the day-to-day life of the Portuguese. She spoke in particular of a situation which, for us too, is extremely worrying, which is the situation in the health sector and which is the direct result of the de-investment and de-investment policies that this government has followed over the past three years. These policies are not neutral, they are not harmless, since the Minister of Health comes to Parliament saying that they were simply measures for rationalization and for putting finance in order. No, that's not it! The policies that were followed in the health sector are not neutral and their results are in sight. The result is to see the scenario, the sad scenario, that there are ambulances in line in the emergency services because they cannot release the monkeys from the ambulances. This is a sign of underdevelopment which unfortunately happens in various emergency services in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u138	And, moreover, it's the waiting hours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u139	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u140	... is the fact that two Portuguese citizens died in emergency services without having been treated, without having been seen by a doctor, without having received health care. This is an unacceptable situation, which deserves the repudiation of the Assembly of the Republic. The urgency problem, as we all understand, is already far away. in this sense, Mrs. Member, the Left Block presented, in the last legislative session, a concrete proposal regarding emergency services, after having had a peak of fluency in summer and having registered a complete disorganization and the blockade of many emergency services. The proposal we tabled, and which, unfortunately, was plunged by the majority, aimed at solving the problem of emergencies in large urban centres. We know that where there is a multi-purpose urgency and where there is a medical-surgical urgency there must be a basic urgency, because, if there is not, the other two emergencies are blocked and they can neither meet nor solve the most urgent problems and, worse, those who are less urgent become more urgent due to waiting times. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to tell us your opinion: do you not understand that extraordinary measures are needed to solve the problem of chaos in emergency services, which, by the way, were not occasional situations, and could become very frequent and be daily in hospital services in our country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u141	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u142	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I am grateful for the question put. In fact, the closure of services, particularly at the level of primary health care, and the concentration of hospital services have led to a concentration of users. And if, in the face of a need for people, the health centre is closed, if there is no alternative and the only open service is the emergency service of hospitals, it is obviously fair that users use this service to solve their health problem. The fact is that the policy that has been followed by this government has a very clear strategy: it goes towards de-investment in order to discredit public health services and ultimately justify funding to private entities. However, this is very clear in a set of measures which have been adopted by this government. When the hours of operation of health centres are reduced, when many emergency services and permanent care services are closed in many health centres, when the concentration of hospitals is in fact reducing the capacity of public services and thus transferring users to private entities. In fact, INE data refers to exactly this. The situation at this time in the emergencies—albeit the Christmas and New Year's season has passed and the emergencies continue to be overcrowded, so what was punctual is dragging - it has already been more than two weeks - not only in this period, it is very frequent and has happened over the year, in several periods. And the truth is that there is not only the concentration of patients in emergency services, but there is also, as the honourable Member said, and we have already mentioned it in the intervention we have done here today, the concentration of ambulances at the door of emergency services. This situation, apart from the implications not only of congestion but also of the operation of services, reveals the lack of beds in hospitals, which the successive governments have been reducing in recent years. The reality is that Portugal has a number of beds per inhabitant far below the average of the countries of Europe, which obviously has consequences. They closed beds that are now opening in some hospitals, because they are necessary. The reality is demonstrating that these services are needed and that the response capacity of public entities is being reduced to provide quality health care to users. Mrs Deputy, of course, urgent measures are necessary, but there is something else that is necessary because with this government, with the PSD and with the CDS, taking into account its political orientation and what they have been implementing, it is not possible to solve the problems that exist today in the National Health Service. The problems of the National Health Service will only be solved if there is a rupture in this policy and with a change for a real alternative that meets the values of April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u143	The next question is PSD. Mrs. Carla Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to wish everyone a good year. Mrs Paula Santos went through several subjects in her political statement until she finally came to the subject she really wanted to come to and we welcome that she has brought to the discussion: health. I must tell you that the health and access of Portuguese people to health are of great concern to the PSD Parliamentary Group, but I must not remind you that such situations have happened over the years, because also in periods of socialist governance these situations have happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u145	What were these situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u146	The honourable Member may then ask whether the Government should not have prevented this situation because it was foreseeable that this peak of emergency influx would have prevented this situation. It prevented, Mrs Deputy, and there was a special contingency plan to combat this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u147	After Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u148	There was an extension of the hours of care of health centres during the night; there was a strengthening of medical teams in emergency services in this period;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u149	After what happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u150	... there was an exceptional commitment of health professionals, who exceeded and unfolded in this particularly difficult period to care for all users.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u151	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u152	In fact, we want here to recognize this effort by health professionals. However, that was not enough, Mrs. And it wasn't enough because it's never enough when you combine completely exceptional factors in absolutely exceptional circumstances. This phenomenon, unfortunately, is not an exclusive phenomenon of Portugal. I recommend that you read the article published today in The Guardian, which explains that this phenomenon happened in the English health service, pointing out causes that are entirely identical to Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u153	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u154	by reading this article perhaps the honourable Member can see a little more about this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u155	The charge is broken! Are you comparing?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u156	But what I really regret, Mrs. Member, is that the PCP insists on this word spends: de-investment (it is no longer dismantling, it is de-investment). [[PCP and BE protests.]] If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen want to hear, I keep going!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u157	Aparts are regimental!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u158	It is that in 2013, for example, more than 6 million emergency visits occurred, more 128 000 visits than in 2012 – we still do not have the 2014 numbers – which corresponds to an increase of 2, 2 %. There were more than 16,600 visits per day in the SNS emergencies. Is this the de-investment in the SNS? There were more than 3, 4% hospital consultations than in 2012. Is this what it calls uninvestment in the SNS? In 2013 more than 2000 doctors were hired for the National Health Service and in 2014 more than 1,700 doctors were hired. Is this what it calls deinvestment? [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u159	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u160	I'm done now, Mr. President. You know what I'm so sorry about? I regret that the CFP merely shouts against the government, against this parliamentary group, against all and against all, even against health professionals, who have so much endeavoured to give an answer in this period,... [[PCP protests.]] ... and do not present a single solution to this situation. What is the solution, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u161	The hiring of more doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u162	The hiring of more doctors? We hired another 1700! Where are we going to get more doctors? Tell us, if you have the answer! Maybe Cuba, I don't know... tell us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u163	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u164	Is it the solution to prohibit doctors from enjoying their holidays and withdrawing their legitimate licenses? Tell me! The answer cannot be this vague response from the left patriotic policy. No, we need compromise, we need responsibility, and we don't hear from the CFP! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u165	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u166	Mr President, Mrs Carla Rodrigues, I am grateful for the question you have raised, but the fact is that the concern that the PSD says it has with health is not reflected in the health policy that you have approved and that your government has imposed on health professionals. If, today, there is a shortage of health professionals, there are responsible for this. Those responsible are successive governments, and their government has many and many responsibilities. Why do doctors leave the National Health Service in advance? Why do doctors leave the National Health Service and enter into contracts with private entities? Why are there doctors who are still in training and consider emigrants, since the National Health Service does not give them a career response, does it not guarantee them professional development? These are the issues that you do not want to discuss, that you hide and that are, in fact, the practical reality of everyday health care professionals. It is true, Madam Member, that if the National Health Service is going to give an answer, this is not due in any way to the government, which has only contributed to create difficulties; it is due to the health professionals who, even in the face of all attacks, with cuts in wages, with the withdrawal of rights, with the professional and social devaluation to which they have been subjected, continue to contribute so that users can have better health care, contrary to the guidelines of the Government, who want to further degrade, degrade and degrade health conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u168	Mrs Deputy, I would say that your intervention was in some way offensive to users who are currently in many health centres and hospitals waiting to be cared for and that they are not exactly because there is a lack of these health professionals. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u169	The truth is that many users do not have family doctors and do not have access to health care as they should exactly for that reason. Mrs. Member, do not come with these theories, because the fact is that the government, with its performance, is responsible for pushing thousands and thousands of professionals out of the country and out of the National Health Service. As far as the situation we are now is concerned, you continue to say that it is a timely situation, but it is not, Mrs President. We know that situations like these happen in this period, but the government has not been cautious. The government has only taken these extraordinary measures which it has mentioned, and which are temporary, because what happened at Christmas has happened, because unfortunately people have died in emergencies, which forced the government to try to show a sign that it is concerned and that it is trying to solve the problem. But today the difficulties remain, they continue on a day-to-day basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u170	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u171	Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to say that it is not just us who believe that this problem does not have to do with the time of the year in which we are but, yes, with the policies. The Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association also says that the situation in the emergencies is not due to an increase in demand, which there are no more patients in the emergencies than in other years at the same time, the teams are on the "naval yarn" and there is no more elasticity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u172	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u173	Listen to what they say, because it is the professionals who are, day by day, managing the hospitals that deny the government, who reject the PSD and the CDS and who put the problems on the table: the lack of human resources derived from the policy of this government! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u174	For a political statement, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live in a unique moment in Europe. After years of economic crisis, where it became evident the ruin of a system that many said was infallible, after applying austerity as there was no memory, which caused the profound social crisis that we are living today, we also live an extraordinary moment in Europe. Extraordinary, because change is possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u176	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u177	in this framework we have on the one hand Angela Merkel, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the IMF and even the Portuguese Government, who enter a spiral of pressure and blackmail on the Greek people because, as everything indicates, change can be a reality in the forthcoming elections, which will take place on 25 January. Even yesterday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rui Machete, joined the chorus of pressure against the Greek people. on the other hand, there is a people who have been subjected to a brutal programme of impoverishment, a people and a country that is experiencing a huge humanitarian crisis—and I stress, Mrs and Mrs. Members, humanitarian crisis. It is unacceptable for European leaders to want to interfere in the Greek elections. The European institutions never wanted to hear the people, but they feel the right to interfere in their decision-making through free elections. Free elections are not a slogan for when appropriate, free elections are the people choosing their own way. Mrs Merkel does not vote in Greece. Mrs Merkel must not have a vote on Greece! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Pressures and blackmails arise in the most diverse, more direct, more capacitated forms, but all stirring the ghost of bankruptcy and the expulsion of the euro. The crisis in the single currency is not the fault of the Greeks, it is the result of failed European political options, which have cleared the markets and made the people pay for the toxics of speculation, and still the lack of solidarity between States. Don't confuse your responsibilities. The troika and the German Government want to spend a sponge on their responsibilities. They want us to forget that the austerity they impose is the result of the option of leaving the financial system untouched. They force people to pay the bill of a hole created by the bank, by speculation and financial corruption. What were they waiting for? Should the Greek people shut up and passively accept the collapse of their country? What would you thank the Samaras Government for the austerity programmes and obedience to the troika? Everything indicates, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that will not be the case. It is precisely the awareness that the Greek people want a change and that they are willing to grasp solutions with their own hands that causes Brussels and Berlin to tremble and do not hesitate to make a campaign of fear, trying to save their face. We believe they won't be winners. Fear will not be dependent on democracy. The markets will not crush freedom. Angela Merkel and her allies will not replace Greek citizens and citizens. The change in Greece is a factor of hope for Europe, for the countries of the south, and in particular for Portugal. The Syriza programme is a programme that proposes a negotiation for debt restructuring. It is a programme that calls on the financial system to assume its responsibilities and that it wants to free up resources for job creation and to fight the hunger of its people. It's the alternative. It is an alternative to austerity presented to the people of Greece. The people of Greece will decide, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, either Germany wants to, or Germany does not want to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u178	Mrs Helena Pinto, four Mrs. Members to ask for clarification and the honourable Member will inform the Bureau of how she wishes to respond, whether individually or together. Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u179	Mr President, Mrs Helena Pinto, your speech is on an important issue for Europe and for all of us. I wanted to start by taking advantage of this intervention to make here a statement of principle from the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party does not interfere in the Greek elections. The Socialist Party does not accept pressure, does not accept demands, does not accept any kind of interference with these elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u180	The Socialist Party does not send orders to the Greek people and does not vote in the elections in Greece. Therefore, any official, para-official declaration by way of passage, which is to pressure the Greek people, will not have our support. Neither the Socialist Party nor any of us vote in the Greek elections. This also applies to the Left Block. The honourable Member is not going to vote in the Greek elections either, and therefore we are not worth making statements in support of any kind of programme, any kind of proposal for change or intended change in relation to Greece. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] I would like to take advantage of this statement of principle from the Socialist Party, which is not a political statement of calculation nor is it a consequential utilitarian declaration, it is a statement of principle: we do not interfere in the Greek elections. Madam Member, I would like to tell you that these elections are important for Europe. We understand that the Greeks must remain in Europe, remain in the single currency and must continue to be part of our European club. The Greeks will choose, but if we could also have some opinion, not as Greeks but as Europeans, it is that Greece is part of Europe and lack of Europe. I would like to mention something that these elections are also showing us. We don't know if the party you mentioned in your speech goes or doesn't win the elections, we don't know whether you're going to be able to form government, whether you're going to be able to run your program by winning elections and forming government, but there's one thing we already know: it's enough to have the smell of power to start changing itself, there's just the smell of power so that the party you mentioned has already sent out emissaries to London City to say that you don't have to be afraid. This news came in the media and was not denied. On the other hand, they cannot deny that the party's own leader mentioned today published an opinion paper in a reference newspaper, where he says he comes to save the euro. So different from what has been the image and the discourse that the Left Block has had on the inside! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u181	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u182	Therefore, Mrs. Member, I think that we should all look carefully at the European elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u183	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u184	... because we can also realize that, perhaps, there is a possibility that parties on the left will begin to have a government speech and not just a protest speech, from parties on the left will also begin to evolve in the sense of responsibility and not in the sense of riding all that smells the popular. Madam Member, the question I leave you with is this: when does the Left Block also make this evolution? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u185	To ask for clarification, Mr José Ribeiro and Castro have the help of Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u186	Mr President, Mrs Helena Pinto, we agree with the way you have concluded your political statement: the Greek people will decide. Whether Germany wants or does not want, whether Portugal wants or does not, the Greek people will decide. It's obvious. And I did not understand, in view of the facts, who was addressed to the most violent part of his political statement, because, in fact, we cannot accuse Chancellor Angela Merkel of speculations made by Der Spiegel - so I was in doubt about who he was addressing. And Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rui Machete, also made quite anodical and normal statements of full respect for the Greek democratic process. So who would be the target? Perhaps it would be Alexis Tsipras himself who, as Mr Vitalino Canas has just pointed out, is not the same as 2012, is not the same as the demonstrations in which the Left Block participated in Athens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u187	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u188	And the participation of the Left Block in demonstrations in Athens was a pressure on the Greek people? [[That's right!]] [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u189	All commentators point out this evolution of the Syriza party. Mr Stathakis recently made a European tour to explain that « today's party is no longer the same as 2012 ». He gave an interview to a newspaper, which is not of my political field, Libération, ensuring that, and I quote, "We shall remain in the euro area. We want to negotiate debt with the European authorities to make it sustainable. », adding that it is also a position defended by the current Conservative Government of Antonis Samaras. I wonder: will the irritation of the Left Block duty-CL be removed from the Syriza party of the most radical line that the Left Block supports?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u190	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u191	Having attended the internal debate of the Left Block over the past few years, I would say that it seemed to me a debate perhaps with Ana Drago, perhaps with Rui Tavares, perhaps with people who have moved away from the Left Block, because they defend more realistic positions in the European context. We in the European Union use the word « solidarity ». Now, we have to keep in mind the Latin expression ubicommoda, ibincommoda—where things are comfortable, there are also uncomfortable; where things benefit us, there are also difficulties. We must share this common effort to save the European Union and the euro area, which is crucial.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u192	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u193	I shall conclude by saying that I am also concerned about the results of the elections in Greece and the reflections that may have for Portugal. I do not forget that in 2010 and 2011 the spillage in the markets began by Greece and that we paid the effects of this. And I don't want the same thing to happen again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u194	We paid for Germany's choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u195	I am surprised that the honourable Member is not afraid that the consequences of the irresponsibility that could come from Greece will happen to the Portuguese. I therefore welcome the realism of Greek politicians, including those in their political area, and repudiate all the gestures of irresponsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u196	In reply, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u197	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, I am grateful for the questions you have raised to me, of course, but I would like to say that in your speech, on the issues you have put at the end, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u199	... Syrisa, left, in Portuguese, is the name, we are not afraid to call the parties by name — but also, along the way, to attack the Left Block. But Mr Vitalino Canas did not talk about what was essential. And the essential was the role of Chancellor or Chancellor Angela Merkel and Germany in relation to the pressure and blackmail that is currently being done on the Greek people. He didn't talk! He also said that he did not interfere in the Greek elections and that he believed that the Left Block should not be introduced either. Mr President, somehow you reminded me of the times when the Socialist Party’s bench — and even the Member, I think — praised Hollande here as the great hope for Europe, as the great light, as the great change. Mr President, what is perfectly normal is that each of these parties identifies with the same parties in their respective countries. It is not worth hiding behind phrases, such as « nobody gets introduced » or « we have no position on the Greek elections ». The Left Block is not hiding behind anything and therefore I was absolutely clear about Syriza. It's not worth hiding that. It's worth talking about. And the essential thing is to know how the institutions and the European Union directory are now looking at Greece and treating the Greek people. That is the essential question, on which I regret that Mr Vitalino Canas has not gone any further. Mr Ribeiro and Castro have followed the same path, if I may. There's a cloud of smoke, you talked about everything and something else, about the internal debates of the Left Block until I know where! We can discuss that. Mr President, as you know, the Left Block is willing to talk about its internal debates; it is so much to the point that you know them. They are not made at the closed door, so, whenever you want, we'll discuss that. What is now at stake is a very concrete and very particular situation in Europe, the holding of elections in a country still in January. There is a country that goes to elections, where political parties and alternatives are profiled. Yes, for the Left Block, Syriza is an alternative. And by the way, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Syriza has never defended the exit of the euro, just as the Left Block has never defended the exit of the euro — let's put the points there! But we have a concrete situation, in which there is a pressure and blackmail on a people, which is completely unacceptable, because democracy does not serve one situation and no longer serves another. What is being done about the Greek people is blackmail and pressure, Mr Ribeiro and Castro, and it was about this that I would like to hear a clear and unequivocal position on the functioning of democracy itself within Europe, because it cannot be, in a few days, « yes» and in other days, be « like this». No, democracy is every day and it is always « yes», whatever its outcome. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u200	Mr António Rodrigues has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u201	Mr President, Mrs Helena Pinto, thank you very much for your reflections on Greece. In fact, I agree with you, even though your intervention has made me frustrated, because I have fallen short of what I expected from your reflection on what is happening in that country. Firstly, because the situation in Greece does not stem from any specific political situation but from a constitutional situation. That is what leads to the elections and not to the fact that there has been a popular movement that has caused elections or a political crisis in that country. Secondly, because I realized that, after all, the honourable Member would like to be able to run to Greece to go to vote, to see if there was any change in that country, which is not liquid, it is not clear, it is not direct. And I want to hear you pronounce yourself here after the elections if you did, by any chance, Syriza does not win. And for one reason: because populism does not win elections, incoherence does not win elections, successive slips do not win elections, and that is what happened to Syriza. Syrisa has tried to find what is the feeling of sacrifice for the Greeks to pass through, but in recent months it has shown that it has been successful by the previous government or by this government. They see the official data, which are not mine, are European data, which show that GDP has grown, that investment has increased, that unemployment has decreased, that inflation has decreased, that public debt has decreased, that revenue and expenditure have decreased, that the budget deficit has decreased, that international growth has increased, that the external balance of gross domestic product has increased and that interest rates have decreased.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u202	The PSD knows better than the Greeks what's going on there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u203	Facts! All the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u204	What happened from the time the crisis was declared? They have increased interest rates, increased debt, increased difficulties, which will surely increase in the next few days. [[BE's protests.]] contrary to what is happening in the spirit of the Left Block or of Mrs Helena Pinto, we are not concerned about Mrs Merkel's comments. Who is the Left Block, who, at every opportunity you have, refers to it. And so much refers to Greece because this will perhaps be the only country where you feel minimally identified with someone who can win the elections. The Left Block will certainly not win them in Portugal in the next decades, if it still exists. The honourable Member will even risk being able not to be here in the nearest times! But we are concerned, above all, with a question. We are not concerned about what is going on in Greece — Greece will decide what to decide — we are concerned about the impact it might have, not only on the Portuguese economy but also on the European economy. It is true that, today, Europe has mechanisms that it did not have in the past to answer these questions: it has legal mechanisms to support banks; the European Central Bank has programmes to buy debt, if necessary; and it has a relief fund in the euro area, to respond to this situation. But those who apply for elections must say that they are willing to accept these mechanisms, say that they are willing to accept the rules of the game. And more: saying that they are within Europe and within the euro, they say they accept the rules that all 27 other states have accepted, and that's not what Syriza says. Syriza laments and says « we want to restructure debt at 50 or 100 years, we want to change our responsibilities ». But if we accept, as a country, certain types of responsibilities, we have to fulfil, why does Greece not have to do so? That is the question that needs to be put, and that is what will be at stake in the elections, namely whether they are capable of fulfilling the international obligations they have assumed, for the sake of the Greeks, but for the benefit of us and of all Europeans. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u205	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u206	Mr President, I also welcome Mrs Helena Pinto for her statement and for the subject she has brought here. In fact, the CFP considers that the statements of Minister Machete are regrettable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u207	Minister Machete? Oh, my God! Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u208	...for they reveal interference in the sovereignty and will of the Greek people. But we cannot say from here that these statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Chancellor Angela Merkel are in fact in line with what has been the policy of the European Union, with this direction of the capitalist integration of the European Union, of disrespect, manipulation and instrumentalization of democracy and the rights and will of peoples. What happened in 1992 at the decision of the Danish people or what happened in Ireland at the decision of the Irish people in 2001 or what happened in France in 2005 at the decision of the Dutch people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u209	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u210	It is from this direction that Minister Machete's statements are revealing. But, Madam Member, the question we would like to put to you is whether the Left Block considers that the resolution of the problems faced in particular by the Portuguese people and the Greek people, victims of austerity, exploitation and impoverishment policy, whether the resolution of these problems — the problem of debt, the problem of the attack on the rights of workers and the social functions of the State — can only be achieved by breaking up the policy of the right, with the guidance and direction that the European Union is taking, with neoliberalism, with the centralization of power in the directory of the policies of the great European powers, with the budgetary treaty. In addition to asking these questions, we would also like to ask the Left Block, through Mrs Helena Pinto, whether it is considered that another Europe will indeed not be possible. But this Europe will only be possible if we break with this capitalist integration, if we break with this path of deepening, exploitation and impoverishment with which the European Union has provided the peoples, particularly the Portuguese people and the Greek people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u211	In reply, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Rodrigues, I would like to thank you for your questions and comments to which I am replying. If you don't go wrong, I'm going to leave out your opinions about the next decades and whether or not the Left Block will win elections in the next decades, because I would have to answer you by saying that probably this year, who will lose the elections is the PSD. In this regard we already have more concrete data and certain indicators that this is a strong probability, contrary to what you say for the next few decades. But then you'll see. Isn't that true, sir? But let us put these things aside from internal policy and turn again to the essence of the matter. The honourable Member began by saying that the elections in Greece are spolated and have a constitutional consequence because Parliament has not been able to elect the President of the Republic, who has not had any political crisis and which is therefore not why there are elections. That is true, Mr President, but it is also true that Greece has been in ongoing political crisis in recent years. You will not tell me that the situation in Greece and that the Greek Parliament's relationship with the Samaras government is not a situation of permanent political crisis, which even extravagants the Greek Parliament itself and goes to the streets, where people are almost daily, as you know. Therefore, the political crisis has existed in Greece for several years, and it is precisely this political crisis, coupled with the profound social crisis in the country, which has made the contradictions explode and which has opened new ways, new paths and alternatives. This is the bottom line, which makes the European directory and many of the parties that fit into this logic of Europe — and here I am also responding to Mrs Carla Cruz — tremble because, in fact, Greece is a sign that change is possible. Because change has to start anywhere, it will start anywhere, and if you start in Greece we are with the Greek people, you have to say it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u214	That is what you are afraid of. That is why they are glancing—and there comes blackmail—the overthrow, the bankruptcy and everything else. But there is another fundamental question which Mr has put and which I do not want to leave without a reply, which is the positive outcome of the Samaras government. Sir, I'm sorry, but these results are that I can't find! The honourable Member quoted some official statistics that I have here too — we must have looked for them at the same location — so he certainly saw the evolution of the Greek public debt with the Samaras government in the first rescue, in the second rescue and at present.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u215	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u216	I'm done now, Mr. President. in the first rescue, Greek government debt was 129, 7% of GDP ; in the second rescue in 2011 it was 146 % of GDP ; and currently it is 174, 1 % of GDP. I mean, it's always shooting. Do you know how many people in Greece live in poverty? 3, 8 million people! I don't know what the positive results of this government are, but I know that the Greek people are suffering and that their desire for change is perfectly legitimate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u217	It is no longer available for a long time, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u218	I'm going to be very quick, Mr. President. Mrs Carla Cruz, I essentially follow the issues she has raised and, yes, it is true that we need to break with the budget treaty, we need to break down with the austerity policy, which imposes this type of European construction, and we need a policy that does not make people subject to the interests of the financial markets and end up having to pay all the bills, speaking in a direct manner. What is our hope, Your Honor? It is that, and that starts on January 25, in Greece. You'll be very welcome, of course. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the period of political declarations. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 936 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider the implementation of the variant at the national road No 14 between the municipalities of Vila Nova de Famalíão, Trofa and Maia as a priority work, given its absolutely decisive character for the high industrial index located north of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and in the southern area of the Vale do Ave ( PSD ), 1193 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Priority to the construction of the variant at EN14 ( BE ), 1198 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the construction of the variant at the national road No 14 ( PCP ), 1202 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the variant on the 14th national road between Famalíão, Trofa and Maia ( Trofa variant ) ( PS ) and 1208 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with an infrastructure model to improve accessibility on national road No 14, in particular in areas of confluence with the municipalities of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão ( CDS-PP ). To present draft resolution No 936 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD has the floor of Mrs Emilia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us discuss today in this House five draft resolutions that converge for the same need: the construction of a road alternative to the national road No. 14 ( EN14 ), among the councils of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão, as an absolutely priority work, given its decisive character to increase the high industrial index located north of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and in the southern area of Vale do Ave. It is well known that the conditions of movement on the national road No 14 are quite poor, with reduced traffic fluidity and frequent congestion. It is also known by all that many companies currently have in EN14 their main traffic distributor axis for access to seaports, airport and the trans-European motorway network. And it is well known that EN14 serves three highly-exporting councils in the order of EUR 4 million per year. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also from the knowledge that we are faced with a long-identified need, which consisted successively and for many years of the PIDDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ), without any government, under much more favourable economic and financial conditions, to implement it. It is important to make it clear here that the governments of the Socialist Party have had all the opportunities for their implementation, even if they are leveraged into specific Community funds for this purpose. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this was not the political option followed by the Socialist Party, which only now wakes up to the problem. Roads and motorways were built, today little used, some of them overlapped and responsible for the increase in indebtedness, without resulting in benefits for the country. On the other hand, it has ceased to invest in road infrastructures that are reproductive to the country, that facilitate the export process and that reduce the time between companies and their customers, making them more competitive, and unfortunately EN14, one of the most important and most traffic-free routes in the north of the country, is an example. But more than that, the Maia-Trofa-Famalicão axis is the main exporter and, above all, the main processor of the country. I would like to draw particular attention to this fact: it is the main transformer, which requires road access routes that do not hinder the productivity and competitiveness of these companies. Having come to this point, it is clear that the construction of an alternative road infrastructure and complementary to EN14 must be seen as a national priority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the basis of this reference, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution which, in essence, defends a concerted infrastructure solution with all the authorships, adjusted to the economic reality of the country and which is in line with the external funding available, but which is able to resolve definitively this serious road problem which has penalized the northern region of Portugal. We are aware that the harsh economic and financial conditions faced by the country and that the government is faced with imply that solutions are found that, even reducing the costs of the initial project by combining different technical possibilities, make a viable alternative, equally efficient and realistic. We're right, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Government will not fail to accept this concern and to resolve, once and for all, something that should have been and could have been resolved a few years ago, for the sake of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u221	To present draft resolution No 1193 / XII ( 4. ( a ) from BE, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents this draft resolution because it considers that the issue of the construction of the variant to EN14, between Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão, is indeed an urgent one and should be taken into account by the government in the short term. When I hear the previous Member, I anticipate that this conclusion should be initiated at least this year. In fact, this is what I can deduce from your last words by saying that it should have been built for a long time now, so it will now be done. This variant is necessary because the current EN14 does not respond to the mobility needs of the population and much less to the economic needs of the region. It is noted that this national road crosses five municipalities with a high population density and serves a population of 900 000 people. EN14 crosses about 30 industrial poles, some large. in the Maia area, they circulate about 25 000 vehicles per day and in the Famalicão area, about 17 000 vehicles per day, of which about 2500 vehicles are heavy to the industrial area. If more arguments did not exist, I think these were already sufficient to show the need for this variant to be built. With an aggravating point, from our point of view: the plot of EN14 does not allow the enlargement of the roads. The fact of crossing, for example, the centre of urban agglomerations and the fact that there is no way out of all the traffic that it confuses, makes it necessary to build an alternative. And this alternative is the variant. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we hope that all these draft resolutions, which are in the same direction, will be approved, and above all, we hope that the Government will take this recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic, seriously and, finally, begin the works, allowing the variant to EN14 to be a reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u223	To present draft resolution No 1198 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the CFP has the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it has already been said here that this is an issue which seems to merit the consensus of all parties and all sides, and not only here but also in regional terms. But it should be noted here that the projects that the PSD and the CDS present, as well as the others, are unclear on the issue of establishing a timetable for the implementation of these projects. It's about promises, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the populations, which are served by this national road, are fed up. The Member of the PSD, in her initial speech, said that the construction of this variant had already been planned in several PIDDACs—yes, and many of these proposals were submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party—but at present, PS, PSD and CDS, now in the government, now in the opposition, have led to all these proposals put forward by our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u225	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u226	Therefore, what matters to be clear here today is the commitment to the timing of the stages for the construction of this variant. It's just that it matters to be said. It is not enough, once again, to say « it will be built, it is important to be built». We have known for many years the importance of the construction of this variant. And it is important to build this variant, because, even though, as has already been said, several highways have been built, several alternatives, these do not clearly respond to the needs that these populations and these municipalities have. Another point that should be mentioned is that the introduction of tolls on some of these motorways, such as the A28, withdrew traffic from them, which was once again channeled to the national road No 14. Now, this once again made it difficult to travel between Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão. So what has to be clear here today is that commitment. It is important to say that EN14, according to the 2011 Census, serves directly nearly 310,000 people belonging to the councils of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão. in this way, companies are located that, in view of their size, turnover and the number of workers who employ, also need this infrastructure, this alternative to circulate their goods, because they are very important instruments for the economy of the region and the country. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also important here to mention the statements made in April last year by the President of the City Council of the Trofa, who said that on average 30 000 vehicles pass through EN14 and that these approximately 6000 are trucks, serving 28 industrial areas, where about 128 000 people work, representing a turnover of more than EUR 11, 5 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u227	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u228	As has already been said, this is a construction that has been the object of various projects, various studies, various attempts and intentions, but, fundamentally, nothing has been done. And what the Portuguese Communist Party proposes in this draft resolution is this: the construction of this variant to EN14, but above all, that there is on the part of the government and the parties that support it the assumption of a very important aspect that is the timing of this construction, the immediate beginning of this construction in 2015, and that it is not once again a promise in the year that is expected to be electoral. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u229	To present draft resolution No 1202 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Building the variant on National Road No. 14 is an absolute priority because it no longer represents a mobility solution in this dense territorial area. This variant serves, above all, the Town Council of the Trofa, but also the Councils of Family, Maia and even Santo Tirso. in this territorial area, there is a dynamic business fabric with a highly export pendant, which greatly contributes to the growth of the economy and job creation. This is, therefore, an important project for the development of the local economy, for mobility in this territory and which can very well contribute to the capture of new investments—and we know how important these are today for the region and for the country. The project is in an advanced state of completion. The PS left the baseline project complete, the environmental impact declaration in advanced state and are now part of the report of the working group for value-added infrastructures. It is therefore in this sense that we understand that this is a priority. It is in this sense and for all these reasons that we understand that this project has an urgent character. And the government has all the conditions to implement it, it is only good will and determination. We realize that PSD has many concerns about the investments that PS has promoted in the Port district, because it has never been a priority and a concern for PSD, such as investments in the airport and investments in the port of Legions, today very praised, and the entire network of motorways and accessibility to improve mobility in the metropolitan area of Porto and throughout the region. I would like the PSD, which so much claims against the highways promoted by the PS, which so critiques these investments, to say which investments it would invoke in the district of Porto, in particular mobility wins in the municipality of Maia, which is served by four highways built by the Socialist Party. The concern of the PSD is to have been the PS to make all investments in the district of Porto, which in its governments has been systematically abandoned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u231	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the CDS here today, as has already been mentioned, aims to strengthen the importance of rapid progress in 2015 with the work of improving accessibility, movement of people and access to industrial areas on national road No 14. But we cannot stop making this discussion without taking account of the past. Mr. Renato Sampaio spoke about the investments that the PS carried out in Porto, specifically in the Trofa. Mr President, I was not so excited about the promises and works of the Socialist Party when there were two openings in Trofa concerning the construction of the subway that still does not circulate today. Therefore, some caution would be recommended! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We all know that—not the case of this road—the luxury time of the highways, the roads without cars and the studies they used to prepare projects that never got to know the light of the day ended, because, in the head, they were already financially inviable. What does that mean? It means that the lack of resources that reality imposes today requires us to have a very clear identification and priority of the investments to be made by the government. In fact, the establishment of the Working Group on Higher Value Added Infrastructure, which was politically implemented in the PETI (Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 3+), with the aim of promoting growth, cohesion and competitiveness, is a good example of how they have been sufficiently and extensively discussed, even with political consensus, the investment options that should be taken, taking into account a key aspect to ensure in these same investments, which is the fact that investments must contribute necessarily to the competitiveness and the dynamisation of our economy, particularly as a driver of export and industry growth. Therefore, the case of National Road No 14 is perfectly consistent with the objectives and investment priority lines of this Government. The solutions that are being equationed and the drawing of the calendar, section and costs of each of the projects are perfectly and publicly identified. It is sufficient to consult the website of the Estradas de Portugal (Mr. Carla Cruz put this question) and to understand the identification of circuits, how long it is expected that the works will be realized, when they should be completed, what they cost, how they are financed and what involvement they require at local level. The discussion of this investment and its phases together, both with the Northern Regional Coordination and Development Commission and with the municipal chambers, in our view, is the best way to deal with this problem. We believe that, in view of the public commitment that the Government itself has already made and the consensus has already reached, and that it has been proved in this House, with regard to the need to move forward with the investment of improvement in this infrastructure, all the conditions will be met by 2015 for the start of the work of improving the national road No 14, so important for the movement of people and also for the competitiveness of our economy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u233	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u234	Mr. President, Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, spoke of the Trofa subway. I would like to recall that the Trofa line was part of the first phase of construction of the Port metro network. And it was exactly with a camera led by a PSD / CDS coalition, in a PSD / CDS government, which was removed from the ISMAI / Trofa line to build the old shrimp circuit in port. [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] It was necessary to come to a PS government so that the Trofa line would once again become a priority in the Port metro network. We need to remember this. Mrs. Member, I know you don't like it, I know if it's hard to hear the truth, but this is the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u235	Mrs. Members, as there are no more entries, we will move to the third and last point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 633 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Procedure 21. the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, promoting the protection of victims of domestic violence, establishing a procedure for the provisional regulation of parental responsibilities with provisional allocation of food pension and allowing the removal of the aggressor ( PS ). To present the bill, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Talking about human rights is a good way to start this 2015 parliamentary year. It is human rights and its defence that we speak of when we think of specific measures to intervene in situations of imminent danger, to prevent and combat domestic violence and, above all, the most serious of them, which is the conjugal murder. In 2014, 42 women killed by their husbands, comrades or ex-husbands or former companions died and 47 were victims of attempted murder. in the last 10 years 398 women were brutally murdered, who left a life to live, hundreds of children were left without their mothers and dozens of children were orphaned. This is a terrible reality, without parallel and that everyone must call for a collective political commitment that will lead to one of the most serious violations of women's human rights, the right to life. Many have been the initiatives that, in the last 15 years, and in the five national plans against domestic violence, have been adopted to prevent and combat this tragedy: prevention, shelters, care structures, professional qualification, support for non-governmental organizations, electronic surveillance measures, deepening of knowledge, etc. We were able to unravel the phenomenon so that about 29 000 victims per year today have the courage to make the complaint. The private has become public when human rights are violated — a conquest without return that Portugal is very proud. We have been on the front line in signing and also in ratifying the Istanbul Convention. But, and despite all this that has been done, and well, the signs that come to us are that we still have a lot to do, to dare and innovate so that the space of affection does not continue to be a toxic place of violence and death. The project we present today aims to be just another contribution to make effective the measure of removal from the aggressor, with communication to social security, and in any event, as is obvious, the principle of presumption of innocence must always be safeguarded. This is perhaps the most urgent and necessary measure to prevent marital murders and, at the same time, is also the most difficult to apply. The provisional regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of the food pension may likewise anticipate the always painful process of release of the aggressor and therefore also prevent immediate risk situations and thus combat marital murder. We are certain of the legal complexity that such a proposal can entail, but, on behalf of the victims, we must do everything to keep the aggressors away in good time. This project is for the victims, their children and for the dignity of the human person. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to commend the PS for the concern about the crime of domestic violence, which this government has chosen as a priority since the first hour. They're late, but always in good time. We regret, however, the expectation that they have raised and brought to this Parliament a proposal that only presents a simulation of improvement, it is true, for reasons of mere political management of the subject, that is all. And neither the solemnity he gave to his speech conceals the emptiness of this proposal, because he proposes a measure that violates the Constitution and the Law of the Judiciary Organization, or because he repeats what is already provided for in Article 200. the Code of Criminal Procedure. In short, it's redundant and useless. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not by chance that this proposal is not in the hands of any of the institutions that have spoken on it. Let's see. The Supreme Council of the Magistracy says: "There does not seem to be much to be gained by the suspension of the provisional regulation of the exercise of parental responsibilities by attachment to the criminal proceedings. The knowledge of the matter is subtracted from the more well-positioned court of specialized competence, without a procedural rule.' It also says the Advocates' Order : « To devert the principle of specialization with the solution that the bill intends to introduce will entail an increase in the waiting of criminal courts without any efficiency gain». It also says, and to stone, the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry : « The proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group, despite well-intended, meets the fundamental principles of the national legal system, and cannot, as we believe, be implemented ». Now, it is seen that we can evolve in the legal responses to the crime of domestic violence, but it will certainly not be with proposals which are useless, as well as withdrawing from the opinions, in the view of all, less, of course, of its proponents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u239	It is in the way of evolution that the majority will soon present a bill that will propose new and significant measures to prevent the crime of domestic violence and the protection of victims, following the broad debate and deep reflection carried out by the Government on national domestic violence days. In particular, we will amend the Penal Code so that, in the case of execution of the punishment for domestic violence, the simultaneous application by the victim's protection court, such as teleassistation, is determined. We will promote an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure so that, following the complaint, criminal police bodies may, having founded suspicions of the practice of domestic violence crimes, detain the suspect under more comprehensive conditions than those currently existing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u241	This is the way in which, in fact, this government has stood out, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there have never been so many teleassistive measures for victims — plus 260 in December 2014 ; there have never been so many measures of electronic surveillance for aggressors — 275 in December 2014 ; there have never been so many prisoners for the practice of this crime — 515 in November 2014 ; there has never been so much support for victims with absolutely new means that facilitate their access to work, housing and empowerment against aggressors. As in this Government, there has never been an enormous strengthening of the formation of security forces in recent years, as well as the systematic extension of the training provided to the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, through actions disseminated by the country in partnership with the Attorney General of the Republic ( PGR ). We have never talked so much about this crime, its prevention and its fight, because the government has chosen it as a priority in its programme and has not spared any effort to put it on the public agenda and in raising awareness of the community, through annual campaigns and national journeys, carried out in the last three years, with dozens of initiatives developed by the country. The issue has never been so visible and public attention and therefore the PS now resolves to adhere to the priority set by the government. Do it late. But everyone is welcome to the one who has been and will always be our priority, to the one who has been and will always be the scourge to fight. However, let them do so seriously and with technically acceptable proposals and that they do not merely circumvent public opinion on supposed novelties which, after all, the law has provided for several years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u242	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to greet Mrs Elza Pais for her initiative because, in fact, and before the Istanbul Convention, in particular in Article 31 thereof. the debate today is about whether we are, in fact, guarding the rights and security of victims of family violence, including domestic violence, mostly exercised on women, but also on children. This is the debate that we must do today with all the seriousness that it deserves. When we know that, last year, 42 women were murdered in the hands of people they trusted, or trusted, and when we know that children are so often victims of these heinous forms of violence, we need to give clear answers. To the question, are we doing everything possible to defend them? I think we should seriously say that we do not, in particular, take account of the data we have. If we look at the data from the Women's Observatory Murdered, we see that more than 20 % of those women were already in a context in which sentence had been given or that a criminal process was opened. Even with proper intervention, these women continue to be exposed to extreme situations of violence. The answer the PS wanted to bring to me that it is very well-intentioned, i.e., in terms of intent the initiative is positive and with solutions that have some fragility, but, having context and seriousness in this debate, the bill itself can, of course, grow and be debated with all the space in committee. We are concerned about the loss of the powers of the family courts regarding the provisional regulation of the food pension and parental responsibilities, among other aspects, but our point of view and our starting point are that there is all room for this debate. at the same time, it is necessary to do more, go further, and the project of the Left Block, still in this context, proposes a debate that I think we need to do, which is the common sharing of parental responsibilities in a divorce and separation framework. We understand that it is time to make this discussion seriously and that this common rule should not be applied when the fundamental rights of victims of violence are involved and when, for example, situations of child abuse or sexual abuse of children themselves are involved. at the same time, we believe that the legal framework for the purpose of visiting rights should also be suspended or even conditioned, accompanied by specialized professionals when it comes to situations of family violence that mostly undermine the safety of women, but also — it is good to say so — of children. We need to look forward to this problem we have forgotten. in this sense, our willingness is to make this debate with the seriousness it requires. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u244	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few days ago, a report by journalist Céu Neves, published in the Newspaper, again denounced the brutality of domestic violence in our country and the dark impacts on the lives of victims, families and children. Domestic violence, despite the measures that have been taken over the years, continues to mark the lives of so many families. Therefore, proposals, discussion and adoption of effective measures to protect victims must and can be further developed. For the PCP, all effective measures that prevent violence, inhibit its effects, protect victims and eradicate phenomena of aggression, humiliation and oppression must be taken. To this end, the State has a constitutional obligation to ensure adequate material and human resources, in training and sufficient numbers, so that in the various dimensions of approach to this scourge act in the time and space necessary, either at the level of the justice system and the necessary professionals, be these judicial or technical officials of the multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts—in fact, that is exactly the opposite of what the government is doing, with the dismissal of these professionals in the field of social security—...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u247	... at the level of criminal police bodies, whether at the level of social security in the follow-up to victims, children and families, ensuring the human and material resources appropriate to the child and youth protection committees—in fact, that is exactly the opposite of what the government is doing and is preparing to do, which is to fire technicians working in the field with the committees and with the children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u248	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u249	The realization of support and protection for victims is indeed one of the social functions of the State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the project under discussion, we recognize as important the need to strengthen the protection of victims. As far as principles and objectives are concerned, of course we follow them. However, we must not fail to warn about aspects related to their application and to deal with the day-to-day life of the courts and the warnings which the various opinions which have reached the Commission announce regarding these proposals. We therefore understand that aspects of these legislative initiatives must and can be improved in the field of expertise, taking into account the elements referred to in the various opinions. The opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistrate alerts to matters which seem very important to us: the need to introduce changes as the victim's attacker has to be removed from the existing precepts and not to the creation of new legislation; the waiting for the provisional regulation of the exercise of parental responsibilities for attachment to criminal proceedings will depend more on good coordination between the entities involved than on the deviation from the competence of the Family and Minor Court. The opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor also states that "the provisional regulation of parental responsibilities, with the provisional allocation of food pension in cases of domestic violence, may be a good solution. however, the procedural design of the mechanism should be another, respecting the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the legal organisation and the criminal proceedings». The PCP will always be on the side of those who always, intransigently, defend the eradication of all forms of violence against women, at all times and in all its dimensions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Recognizing the unequivocal importance of the topic and not wanting to divert the discussion of the substance into the form, the first of an essentially technical nature and the second of an essentially political nature, the truth is that, when we are confronted with the empolation that the Socialist Party has made in recent times of the reality of domestic violence, in the name of effort, commitment and work with results assumed by the various actors in the political, judicial and civic sphere, more on behalf of the victims themselves, I cannot, nor should I start this discussion without making my critical opinion clear as to the path that the Socialist Party has recently adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u253	It is a path that, in our view, is limited to taking on a difficult reality, to denounce the difficulty and to wait, without having the concern of presenting viable and new solutions, as it has been said, misleading public opinion and, with this, waiting to captivate for you the natural, legitimate and obviously common feelings of all Portuguese and that we, as it is evident, also accompany.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u254	It is called 'use'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u255	It's an easy way. Hard, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clearly a solution. And, we agreed, it would be - particularly at this new stage of the Socialist Party, a little more substance and care and that it would be able to accompany, in fact, all the emotional highlights of the last congress or of the concern present in the Christmas message of Antonio Costa. Anyway, it's not a good warning. As the saying goes, it seems to us that "a lot of raisins and little grapes". Having said that, it is true that, despite the greater attention of the legislator or the executioner, the phenomenon of domestic violence continues to record worrying numbers. It is also true, and I believe that we all recognize, that part of the expression of the reality of numbers is confined to greater public exposure to the problem, to more vigilant collective attention and to a system, in various dimensions, more effective. This is a recognition which, of course, cannot, nor should, remove the concern. It is a complex phenomenon, with a complex response, which requires permanent attention, in particular by the legislator. So let us look at the bill under discussion. If the intention underlying the project is understandable, the solution, as most of the opinions point out, in the attempt to simplify the response, may have a result that will probably be the opposite of the intended. I leave two brief notes, but which I consider important. I consider this draft redundant law and for worse in the case of the coercion measure of removal of the aggressor, which, as already mentioned, is already planned. As far as the provisional regulation of parental responsibilities is concerned, they do not appear, and in this regard we also follow the opinions, advantages, especially when there is a conscious and informed weighting of the values and interests concerned, considering, on the one hand, the different and specialized nature of the different issues that arise and, on the other hand, the very stage in which we are in the process. In short, it is redundant, inadequate and technically very imperfect. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, point of the situation: there has never been so much or so much talk about domestic violence as today and about numbers, despite worrying and frustrating, the truth is that they do not denounce a worse reality. Of course there can be an evolution of the legislative framework, but it will certainly not be with a project like this that we are discussing, which, as has already been said, has not happened at the level of any of the entities heard, not even at the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic. For this reason, and to end, focusing on the protection of the victims and aware of the capacity and shortcomings of the system, in a consequent way, taking advantage of the deep and extensive reflections of the parliamentary journeys, but also of those already made in this House, here is the record, on behalf of the CDS, of the intention and commitment to submit a set of proposals at the level of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as has already been mentioned, hoping that at that date, in a more mature way, we can continue to count on the renewed commitment of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u256	For a second intervention, relying on its power of synthesis, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is from this debate that the project already has a merit, which is that of identifying, from the outset, a solution for which urgent intervention is needed, as well as that of raising the debate. Everyone agrees that this is a situation that is lacking in an urgent resolution. We must appreciate more what unites us than what separates us, in a serious debate, as Mrs Cecilia Honorio said. The PS opened the discussion with this bill and, obviously, is ready for any improvement. The opinions requested by the PGR, the Supreme Council of the Magistrates, the Order of Advocates, effectively point out critical aspects that need to be improved and deepened, but also acknowledge, in a laudable way, the need and meaning of a response to this level. I quote the Supreme Council of the Magistracy : « The project is understandable and praiseworthy». I also quote the Attorney-General of the Republic: 'This proposal, in its essence, deserves indisputable approval. This is a proposal which is, by some, widely claimed'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u258	That's decontextualized!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u259	The majority parliamentary groups have announced the presentation of projects and the PS will propose that this project go down without a vote for an extended and joint discussion with other projects that will be associated. One thing is certain: an intervention in this area is necessary and urgent. Our openness to dialogue is complete and desirable, by improving this project, by seeking other solutions that, in a surgical and incisive way, help to solve this problem that victimizes women in the way it has been presented. For the good of the victims and for the good of the dignity of the human person, let us go to the dialogue on the most appropriate solutions for the search for an urgent solution to a serious, grave problem in our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-07.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing our work today. We will meet tomorrow, 8 a.m. at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: in point 1, we will have a current debate required by the PS under Article 72. the Regulation of the Assembly of the Republic, on the situation of hospital emergencies ; in point 2, we will appreciate petition No 274 / XII ( 2. a ) — Presented by João Joanaz de Melo and others, entitled Manifesto via the Valley of Tua, together with Bill No. 511 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Immediate suspension of the works of the Foz Tua dam ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 1206 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the works of the Foz Tua dam ( The Greens); in point 3, we will appreciate petition No 373 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Presented by Paulo Miguel Correia Ferrero Marques dos Santos and others, entitled by the Maintenance of the Portuguese Shoe in the City of Lisbon ; in point 4, we will discuss petition No 393 / XII ( 3. a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Soares secondary schools of the Kings and António Arroio, asking the Assembly of the Republic to amend the legislation regulating access to higher education of specialized artistic students, together with draft resolutions 1153 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Access to higher education of specialized arts courses in visual and audiovisual arts and specialized music and dance education ( PS ), 1087 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Students of artistic education who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE) and 1199 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ) ; in point 5, we will discuss petition No 382 / XII ( 3. a ) — Presented by Maria Natália Pereira dos Santos et al., demonstrating by the construction of the Odivelas health centre, in conjunction with draft resolutions 1192 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a health unit in Odivelas ( BE ), 1200 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas ( PCP ) and 1204 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the health centre in the parish of Odivelas (The Greens); in point 6, we will appreciate petition No 397 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by Antonio Joaquim Pereira Curvo Lourenço and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the immediate reduction of municipal property tax ( IMI), together with draft resolutions 1196 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government justice measures in the economy for municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE) and 1205 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the revision of the Code of Municipal Property Tax in the light of criteria of greater fiscal equity and social justice ( PS ) ; in point 7, we will appreciate petition No 372 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by Carlos Alberto Anacleto Galvão and others, who wish the Tax Authority to comply with the double taxation conventions on the taxation of dependent earnings taken outside Portugal ; in point 8, and last, we will discuss petition No 384 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by the Union of Tax Workers, expressing itself against the closure of financial services, together with draft resolution No 1195 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintains the service of proximity to financial allocations, safeguarding the territory, municipalities, public services and populations ( BE ). I wish everyone another good day and, at this opportunity, a good year 2015 for all Mr. Members, officials and members of the media who regularly follow our work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 57 minutes.]]
