ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to do the right thing to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Paris ( President of the HR ) and 1289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of national agricultural products in advertising campaigns and in proximity markets ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; and draft law No 804 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities ( PS ), which fall to 11. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u3	Let's start our agenda, which starts with political statements, ordered as follows: PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Left Block and Greens. For a political declaration, Mr Luís Montenegro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have many good reasons to believe in Portugal. We have been under external aid and are no longer under external aid. We have been with the rise in our unemployment rate for several years and, fortunately, from 24 months to this part, unemployment has fallen in Portugal. We had to bear the highest interest in our history to fund ourselves and today we have the lowest interest in our history to get funding. In 2013 we had our best year in terms of volume of exports and beatings, in 2014, this record, increasing, on the 2013 record, the global volume of our exports. In 2013 we had a record, also, in the activity of tourism and baptisms, in 2014, the record that we had already beaten in 2013. In 2010 we had a public deficit of 11, 2 % and in 2015 we will be left for the first time since 25 April with a deficit of less than 3 %. In 2011 we had a recession of 1, 8 % on our Product. In 2012 we had a recession of 3, 3 %. In 2013 we still had a recession of 1, 4 % and in 2014 we had a growth of 0, 9 %. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] There are seven data, seven facts, seven results. I, this parliamentary majority and the government believe and believe in Portugal and in Portuguese. And the gentlemen. Members of the opposition believe in the ability of the Portuguese or continue to believe in your mistakes, in your failed predictions? We believed that emergency austerity was tough, but it was necessary. We believed that the country was not going to dive into a recessive spiral. I am not going to commit the evils of saying that the opposition members wanted this recessive spiral, but I wonder: were they wrong when they predicted this recessive spiral?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u5	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u6	Who was right? And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the Socialist Party, those who were here, in Parliament, and the many who were in office in the previous government, you, the "biological fathers" of austerity, have already noticed the difference or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u7	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u8	You who cut salaries, you who lowered pensions, you who cut family allowances, you who closed public services, you. Members of the Socialist Party who supported the freezing of the national minimum wage, of the minimum social and rural pensions, who have increased taxes have already realized the difference or not? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference is that socialist austerity was inconsequential.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u9	Not the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u10	It was inconsequential because the Government of the Socialist Party defined austerity for each Stability and Growth Programme, for each CFP, but then did not resist increasing expenditure, increasing debt and increasing deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u12	The difference is that the growth of the governments of the Socialist Party was a growth purchased with expenditure and debt. Now, growth is not bought with expenditure and debt, it is done on the basis of sweat, Portuguese and Portuguese work. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is what we have checked on our last Parliamentary Days. in tourism, which bets on its quality and diversity; in industries, either in technological industries, or in the traditional sectors of cork, footwear, textiles. We are facing a growing economy, which safeguards the social state and therefore offers more opportunities for employment. Today we have an economy that benefits from structural reforms, those which the previous government has never carried out and which this government has done. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that there are those who do not recognize this development. Certain are not those who are pessimistic, who are bota-bassists, who are discredited in the capacity of this country and of this people. Certain are not those who insist on saying that we in Portugal are worse than in 2011. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Certain are those who say and recognize that the country is different. Because the country is really different! It's different from the country, it's different from the government, and it's different from the way they look at us from outside. As Dr. António Costa said, we had the ability to cope and overcome the crisis and adversity. Portugal is, in fact, different and better! And that's why it's worth believing in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I wanted to tell the ladies and the ladies. Members and also Portuguese people who can rely on the PSD. The PSD has a strong and competent team, has a solid, consistent, ambitious project to carry out this legislation and to lead the government in the next legislature. The PSD also has, and this majority also has, a serious leader, capable, courageous,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... a leader who, as I have said in Porto — and I will repeat here — is, from our point of view, the Portuguese best prepared to carry out the duties of Prime Minister in the next five years in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I wanted to, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to end precisely how I started: it is worth believing in Portugal, it is worth believing in the capacity of Portuguese, it is worth believing in Portuguese families, Portuguese companies and it is also worth believing in those who here, in Parliament, or in the government represent the political will of the Portuguese people. in the part that touches us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly motivated and more mobilized to take advantage of this capacity of the Portuguese and to put the country, its economy at the service of people, guaranteeing them more opportunities and more jobs. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u13	The Bureau registered a number of Mrs. Members to put questions to Mr Luís Montenegro, in particular to the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Ana Catarina Mendes, of PS, João Oliveira, of the PCP, Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, and Nuno Magalhães, of the CDS-PP. The honourable Member will answer two questions first and then the rest. You then have the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u14	Madam President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I believe that anyone who does not believe what he has heard is us and the Portuguese who are out there. The truth is, Mr Luís Montenegro, that even in the eyes of outsiders we are worse. It is worth looking at the report that was presented last week by the European Commission to understand the first emblematic phrase in Europe about Portugal : that this government was unable to deal with the poorest in Portugal, that it was unable to cope with poverty in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The portrait we have today in Portugal is a portrait of less social protection. The long-term unemployed, who had greater social protection, were 45 % in 2010 and 41 % in 2013. The unemployed for more than one year, who had social protection, were 39 % in 2010, are today 29 %... [[Pause.]] Madam President, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask you to talk at the end. I'm not feeling well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u15	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Luís Montenegro will not mind answering you later. [[At the moment, PS Member Ana Catarina Mendonça left the Chamber assisted by other Members.]] [[Pause.]] Let us then move on to the next question, to which Mr João Oliveira is inscribed. [[Pause.]] As Mr João Oliveira went out with Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we will wait a few moments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament also has some hardness in its fight, and we all feel it from time to time. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we can now resume the debate. Mr. João Oliveira, are you in a position to ask your question now or do you prefer to ask it later?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u16	Madam President, if possible, I would rather formulate it later.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u17	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for the same purpose, if you do not mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first word — and I believe that Mr Luís Montenegro will understand that this is the case — it is for, in the face of the incident that has just occurred, to wish that nothing serious has happened, that it is a passenger and a rapid resolution. Although it is difficult to return to the debate right now, I will ask Mr Luís Montenegro a few questions. The first is the following: Mr, your great idea was that it was worth believing in Portugal. I must tell you that we never doubt that it is worth believing in Portugal, but we are sure that it is not worth believing in this government. That's the reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Otherwise, I ask the honourable Member : in relation to that leader of the PSD bench here, in the Assembly of the Republic, that a few months ago he said that, after all, Portugal might even be better, the Portuguese were worse, believe in that Member? Are the Portuguese worse? Do you really think so? So, if the Portuguese are worse—or will you deny yourself—how can you say now, of the rostrum, that we are already better and worth believing? [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] With so much poverty in our country and so much responsibility for this government in this poverty, how can you say that we are better? With so much unemployment in our country, how can you say we are better? I must tell you that between 2011 and 2014 we have fewer than 240 000 people employed, I repeat 240 000 people employed! And this job destruction is the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u20	He will say : 'Well, but the unemployment rate has not risen in this dimension'. It's true, but you know why? It is reported that there are more than 37 000, almost 40 000 unemployed, but what is also mentioned is that many of those who have lost their jobs have been forced to emigrate, are far from their families, far from that country in which it is worth believing, because this government did not believe in them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u22	What this government has to say to them was 'emigrants, they are doomed to impoverish themselves if they stay here, this boat does not give to everyone and therefore some have to leave'. Is this the message that you have now corrected? Oh, my God! Is this the reality that you want to ignore, that of the government that destroyed the country's economy in all the years of its mandate, that of the government that degraded public services—and you do not want to remind me here of what happened in the last few months in health services? Oh, my God! Is this what it's worth believing? Oh, my God! Is this government policy worth believing? Oh, my God! With the urgency to be overwhelmed, with the people who despair because they do not have access to basic health care, with the directors of the hospitals who resign themselves, with the team directors who say that they do not have the conditions to work or with the reality of a school year that was only the most chaotic that we have ever had memory in democracy, is this, after all, worth believing? Oh, my God! Is this government policy worth believing? Oh, my God! No, Mr, it is not worth believing, because whoever is in this song will be fooled again. That is exactly what came to bring us here, the song of grief, that of the «we have been evil, but the others will be even worse; things are not good, but the others will do even worse». Mr Deputy, between this majority or other who would like to profile the same policy, the people have already said: "Come the devil and choose! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Because "the bread that the devil has heaped" was the people who had to eat at the table, consumed by this majority and by this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u24	That is why, in the next four years, they will not have that mandate again, because the Portuguese know who brought this bread and who made these choices. And you know well that at the end of this period, the country is not only poorer, as it is more unequal. The fortunes are greater, but the poor, these, are more and more poorer. So, Mr President, tell us new lies, because we are already tired of these. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u25	With this rearrangement in the debate, Mr Luís Montenegro said he would answer all the questions at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u26	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u27	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u28	Madam President, I would like to respond in two blocks. He proposed that there should be one more question and would then answer the questions of the first two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen and then the two gentlemen. Next Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u29	Mr President, at the moment the Bureau does not register any more than the Members. Mr João Oliveira and Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u30	I am replying together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u31	Mr João Oliveira has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u32	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, in fact, your political statement has come above the reality that the Portuguese live and one of the first issues worth putting is which country the honourable Member spoke about on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u33	It's from this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u34	Because the life that the Portuguese live is quite different from the life of the facilities that you announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u35	Easy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u36	What is more, I wanted to remind you of some numbers. by your hand, public debt has increased EUR 51 billion. In 2011 the problems of the country were what they were ; today we have more EUR 51 billion, a total of 220 billion that the country owes today. We have 2, 7 million poor, a good part added by the gentlemen. It is true that even with the help of the CFPs executed by the previous government, but most of it is your responsibility. We have two, one million unemployed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u37	Two million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u38	It's 2 million unemployed, counting on those you're trying to hide the statistics! Well, that's the problem! [[PSD protests.]] It is that you want to do a portrait of reality by hiding the problems, sweeping them under the carpet. Now, we've seen the result that gets rid of the problems under the carpet, we've seen what it gives. Don't do that! Face the problems, solve them! And if they have no solutions to solve them, take that circumstance! Mr Luís Montenegro is 2 million unemployed in a country that has destroyed 500 000 jobs in liquid terms over the past four years — I repeat, 500 000 jobs. And the reality of unemployment is not only worse because a large part of the Portuguese has emigrated, because a large part of the Portuguese have sought to find abroad the future that you here deny them with the policy that they have carried out to implement the Troika pact.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u40	Mr Luís Montenegro, in this fantasy country that you are talking about, I want to know where the problems of health services lie, where the problems of hospitals are concerned, which have little more than 50 % of the doctors who needed them, where the problems of hospitals and indoor health services are concerned, who cannot hire doctors because they do not have incentive schemes, even though their government has repeatedly entered this proposal into the State Budget. I would also like to ask where the problems of the users arriving at the undernourished health centres, in hypothermia, with drug imbalances because they do not have the conditions to maintain their lives with a minimum of dignity, because you have made the wages, pensions, the living conditions of the Portuguese generality. Where in this fantasy country, of which you have spoken, is this reality that the Portuguese live today? Oh, my God! Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Luís Montenegro another question, which has to do with the lack of credibility of this government, with the notion that the Portuguese people today have to have a government with two weights and two measures in relation to the requirements, the obligations they impose and the sacrifices they impose on the Portuguese and, on the other hand, the measures of the facilities and the favours they guarantee. Mr President, the example we have today with the discussion on the situation in which the Prime Minister is involved, without the necessary clarifications, which are still to be clarified today, is very clear. Or, then, other examples—and we have a lot to give — of support guaranteed to the large economic groups: 1045 million tax benefits, while the Portuguese demanded the increase of taxes they imposed. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u41	It was billions of euros granted to the bank, 12 billion granted through the troika loan and looting in wages and reforms. Mr President, this is a government that has had two weights and two measures, which has harmed the weakest, those who live from their work, to favour those who accumulate, and have continued to accumulate, wealth and fortune at the expense of the country's crisis and at the expense of the Portuguese. This government, Mr. Luís Montenegro, will be defeated in the elections. As long as you come with that absolute majority far-off, you know that you will be defeated in the elections. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u42	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to exceed too much of the time of the questions. I now give the floor also to ask Mr Nuno Magalhães for the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u43	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, will also understand, of course, that my first word is to wait, on my behalf and on behalf of the entire CDS Parliamentary Group, that the small one - of course - incident that happened is already healed. Then, as is normal and praxe, I wanted to greet and greet the Democratic Social Party for the Parliamentary Days held in Porto, where I was present, at the closing session, to represent the CDS Parliamentary Group and, on my behalf and on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, thank you for the warm way in which we were received by all of you and by all of you. Members of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u44	Do PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u45	I would like to say hello and thank you for the way in which the PSD Members — thanks for having corrected me — have received me. But also the members of the CDS, if they were there (and they were, in spirit! ) Of course they would receive me well. These are the first words I wanted to say. I would also like to say to the honourable Member that he has done a correct analysis of our country's recent past. He reviewed what was Portugal of 2011, that of bankruptcy, and what is Portugal of 2015, which works, and which, moreover, was, in our view, well evidenced by the Social Democratic Party in its Parliamentary Days, where we could see, with concrete examples, are not numbers, are not statistics, are concrete examples of entrepreneurs of the various sectors saying that Portugal is actually recovering, that it is a country that is working, that is a country that is working, as much as this seems to cost the opposition, that it would prefer things to be going wrong. I noticed with interest how traditional sector entrepreneurs like textiles and footwear said we're recovering. But also in productive goods—in the agri-food sector, we are exporting more and better and to more sites. But also in services — traditionally, Portugal has always had a strong export capacity, as in tourism, but this record beats year after year. But also in technology and innovation—with all due respect, of course, that academics deserve me, because of what I had the opportunity to see, it was not the academics who said this in the PSD Parliamentary Days, they were entrepreneurs, there were people who walk on the ground, who have a name, have companies, they want Portugal to recover, though it seems, a certain opposition. Mr President, all this will be important only if we continue this journey,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u47	... with more investment that enables more growth and with this growth lets us fight, never deny it, what it has been, and continues to be, the most difficult social fracture in our country, which is unemployment. We understand that for a person who is unemployed, unemployment is 100 % for that person. But also do not admit that in the peak of the crisis, the result of a programme of the memorandum that was negotiated by the Socialist Party, an unacceptable rate of 17.7 % and that today we are at 13.3 %, i.e., we are with virtually the same unemployment rate of the time when the Socialist Party said there was growth and that increased public service salaries to win elections...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u49	This is how Portugal works, it recovers. in the difficulties, of course, and they stay. A rate of 13.3% is high, and this is the question I would like to leave, that is the great challenge of this government. But once again, I could not fail to note the following: we know that unemployment is still high, not to admit that it has fallen in recent years, as Mr. João Oliveira of the CFP has just said, it is clearly not to pay due tribute to Portuguese entrepreneurs and workers who, in difficulties, have been able to overcome the crisis. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But, Mr Luís Montenegro — and to this end, Madam President — the PCP's own authors, those who are on the ground, those who know what is going on in their councils, have come to deny...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u50	The harpoon!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u51	I confess that I didn't understand very well, but it shouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u52	Mr Nuno Magalhães, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u53	I will finish, Madam President. Such a scandal Mr. João Oliveira spoke of is denied by the PCP's own authors. Mr. João Oliveira, it happens that in the Municipal Assembly of Setúbal, last Friday, the President of the Municipal House of Setúbal, and well, which is from the PCP, distributed to the municipal deputies, as I myself, a set of...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u54	Would you like to conclude, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u55	I will now finish, Madam President. You're absolutely right. As I was saying, the President of the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal has distributed what she has done for the council. Among other things, what we read there is that 1700 jobs have been created in the last year on large areas, particularly in such large economic groups as the CFP is so critical. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u56	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you again to respect regiment time, because there is an excessive use of time and then the debate goes on disproportionately. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the questions that have been raised and to join in the wish expressed by the colleagues who spoke in the sense that our colleague and my dear friend Ana Catarina Mendes can overcome the problem that has affected her and that, I believe, was very punctual. I would also like to involve in this wish the respect for the speech which you have given in this debate. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and the Socialist Party in this part of the speech called for the European Commission's report which was released last week, but perhaps they could also have invoked the report of the International Monetary Fund which came out a few weeks ago. I believe that this is a good opportunity for me to be able to say that apparently the Socialist Party is already missing the troika because, precisely, it invokes for its message and for its speech the reports of both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, which are, as it were, members of the troika. We do not miss the International Monetary Fund as much as we do, either the European Commission, in its element of troika and external aid, but I also take the opportunity to say, in a very clear and unequivocal way, that in many aspects of these reports the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund are not right — I repeat, they are not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u59	Therefore, this should be clarified. I hope that for the sake of the development of the country, the Socialist Party will also know how to recognize it. The gentlemen. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr João Oliveira asked several questions. I have very little time to answer in detail to all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u60	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u61	...but I'm going to synthesize. I'll answer! First remark: Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked whether the parliamentary leader of the PSD still remembered what he had said just one year ago — he made a mistake on 23 February one year. I remember that the parliamentary leader of the PSD said the following: «I know that people's daily life is not yet better, but that the country is much better». I want to tell you that this statement revealed exactly the truth and the respect that we, in the PSD, had, and we have, for the effort that people have developed, recovering the country and waiting for the effects of this recovery to reach their lives. It is appropriate to be able to say, today, that I update this phrase: it is true that today, as a year ago, the country is much better than in 2011 and it is also true that today, the effect of this improvement already reaches more people's daily lives than it was in February 2014. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] And I will tell you and Mr. João Oliveira why, quickly repeating the seven data that you have not refuted. Look: The country today is not under external help; at the time, it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u62	It's enhanced surveillance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u63	Today, the country has unemployment to decrease; at the time it was already declining, but it was at a much higher point than it is today. at the time, we had high interest rates on the markets; today, we have lower interest rates on the markets. at the time, we had a good export behaviour; today, we have better. at the time, we had a good tourism behaviour; today, we have better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u64	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u65	at the time, we had more deficit than we have today. And at the time, we came to a year where we had had an economic recession; now we end the year 2014 with a growth of our economy. For all these data, all these combined results have been predominant for people to have more opportunities, have more jobs and, therefore, is reaching the daily life of each Portuguese, regardless of how many are still in difficulty, the effect of what has been the government's way and policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u66	That's Disney's country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u67	And they spoke in concrete terms — so that we are not talking only about economics — an essential public service, that of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u68	And health!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u69	Now, let's go, then, talk about health. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, is it true or is it a lie that in 2014 in the National Health Service, there were more doctors, more consultations, more surgeries and more emergency episodes that were treated? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But more, sirs. Members: today we can say that moderate rates, for example, have more exemptions than in 2011. We have extended the exemption from moderate rates for more than 1 million people in Portugal. But more, sirs. Members: medicines today are cheaper, especially for those with the most difficulties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u70	But they don't have any money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u71	...and they're cheaper at the edge of the pharmaceuticals and pharmacies, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You want to talk about health? Do you want to talk about sectoral policies? We are talking about health and sectoral policies, because there too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the effects of the policy of rigour, discipline, courage, transformation of many methods of administration are being efficient, they are generating efficiency in the state and they are serving the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u72	Go talk to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u73	Of course you are. Members very much like to emporate certain episodes, particularly the peak of the flu, to try to show the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u74	They are not « certain episodes», they are everywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u75	But this is the reality, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who live in a fantasy that is, in fact, very ideological, not to say blindly, are the opposition parties, particularly those two who intervened here, the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u76	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u77	In conclusion, Madam President, because I do not want to leave the essential of the questions, which were many, to answer, I also want to answer Mr João Oliveira, who spoke about the news that has come to the public about the Prime Minister. Mr President, I do not know if you have misunderstood your comment, but if you were here to suspect that you had any support from the Prime Minister for what is related to this news, let us be clear: Mr Prime Minister did not have any act of favour on his debts, or contributions to social security, or tax debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u78	That's what we want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u79	You want to know and we are the first ones to be interested in where Mr. Prime Minister can answer your questions. In fact, I take advantage of complimenting the PCP and the Left Block that used the appropriate regiment figure and directly put questions to the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister will answer those questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u81	And the Socialist Party, which wanted to instrumentalise Parliament and the Committee on Labour in this request for clarification, also has this prerogative in the Rules of Procedure. I therefore take advantage of challenging the Socialist Party and taking up the nine questions I wanted to instrumentalize the Commission and address them to Mr Prime Minister, who he will not fail to answer them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] All seen and thought out, Madam President, I have looked at what the remarks of all the opposition parties were—and Mr Nuno Magalhães will excuse me for not being able to answer him—and I have remembered those football fans who, when they come to your team carrying a bullet, lose for 6 or 7 - 0, in any case, say: "Well, we lost for 6 or 7 - 0, but there is this detail here, if the ball had gone a little further to the side, the game's direction would be different. The referee had that failure, but the result of the game was 6 or 7 - 0. That's exactly what's going on here. I gave them seven elements, it was a drop and you didn't respond to any of them, you don't deny any of these facts...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u82	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u83	...and in the end they mean there's an episode here or a pretext there to say what's not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u84	Would you like to conclude, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u85	The country is not worse; the country is, in fact, much better than it was in 2011 and we want it to be much better in 2016 than it is in 2015. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to respect regiment times. I like to inform the House that Mrs. Anne Catarina Mendes is better. I shall now give the floor by the PS to a political statement to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: as we approach the final line of legislation, it becomes increasingly obvious and less easy to mask with rhetoric and fantasy the devastating consequences of four years of governance, based on a combination of devastating factors as well. We have just heard Mr Luís Montenegro talk about « living in fantasy». And he also talked, with football analogies, about the results of the games. But it seems to us that PSD and CDS are developing a game at PlayStation, in which they chose their favorite club, eventually the Sporting Espinho, and meet the Sporting of Espinho European champion! But it is not extrapolable for the reality of Portuguese suffering what happens at PlayStation that you are playing and, with all respect for Sporting Espinho — my uncle was the guardian of Sporting Espinho, so I have a lot of respect for collectivity — this reality does not translate into what is the suffering of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said, there are three factors that are absolutely devastating in the government's political options. First, a critical and counterproductive devotion to a supposedly redemptive model of austerity, which only the Constitutional Court has prevented most from leading to the end. Therefore, if we did not have a recessive spiral, we should, in fact, respect for the principle of equality, the principle of proportionality and the evils that were planned and would destroy the Portuguese economy in good time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And even more radical, insensitive to the social and irrational impact of these proposals, that the majority does not even hear the informed voices that the European Commission is beginning to say, even quite assertively, by the voice of its President, that these institutions have sinned against States subject to excessive and counter-productive authority. Secondly, the majority of them have an ideological and revengeful reading about the role of the State and the role that can be played by public services in building growth and the ability to value and qualify the populations and which, consequently, will necessarily produce negative results. But there is a third factor that, together with these, is equally devastating. It is the recurrent inability to ensure the minimums of competent and efficient management of public services. And it is not a reality that goes unnoticed, because alerts on this dangerous path have been placed on the table and in good time the warnings on the increase of poverty have been made in good time the warnings on the unsustainability of unemployment that we have, but unfortunately, the government continues to insist on not listening. And do not listen by pretending that your plan is working, even when the European Commission points out that we continue to have excessive macroeconomic imbalances, even when the European Commission points out that, despite all the sacrifices, despite all this rationality, the model is not working, we continue to take refuge in the same rhetoric, in the same failed options and in the same direction that is pushing us towards a path without destiny. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is enough to look at some of these sectors with more impact on people's lives to see that this combination, nothing virtuous of methods and priorities, can only fail. We look at the education sector, in which a reduction of almost EUR 1300 million in the period of governance did not produce anything but a disqualification of public education:... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a 20% cut in the number of staff at the Ministry of Education—from teachers, technical staff and auxiliary staff—which, of course, can serve only the ideological design of disassembly of public school and which has been translated into a clear, continuous degradation, which we have never seen before, with the increase in the number of students per class, curriculum degradation, the desimitable and unacceptable state of special education, the end of the compulsory offer of full-time school, fewer scientific research scholarships and the attempt to pass on the idea that we have more rigour, just because we do more examinations, at times when the OECD itself believes they are not recommended and do not bring advantages to students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, as I say, these bad ideas always join, too, an inability to execute, as you could see this year in the absolute chaos of the placement of teachers, in the contempt of the evaluation, which took place, of the scientific research units, which completely discredited the scientific sector and also, more recently, in the delay in payments in specialized artistic education, due to the inability to promptly provide the necessary visas with the Court of Auditors. But if we continue our course and if we look at the justice sector, we find exactly the same standard: insisting on reforms that make no sense, on reforms made at the expense of the needs of the population, on reforms that will not serve the population better and will not serve the functioning of the judicial apparatus better. And then we joined them — here you are — with the wrong ideas, the inability to execute them and stop the courts for several months, due to the collapse of Citius, the inability to put the services to work and to follow the reforms with the necessary means, once again proving that without a state, without investment in public services everything collapses like a castle of letters. But we have already spoken here today, too, of health, sector that is effectively the backbone of our social model. In fact, only in a fantasy world can we try to pretend that there is no overcrowding in emergencies, or that there is no degradation in the quality of surgical materials, producing worse results in the provision of health care. And it's not just the users who watch and see with the eyes of those who are in the corridors and queues, they're the health professionals themselves, because recently there doesn't seem to be a week in this country where there isn't a resignation from a team that leads any emergency service or clinic, since everyone recognizes that they don't have conditions on a day-to-day basis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But at work, they keep the chaga. And to invoke here that we have had a reduction in numbers, pretending that this reduction in numbers is not due to the fact that there is emigration, as we have not seen since the 1960s, is to incur a mistake again, initially taken by the Prime Minister himself and then Secretary of State for Youth. But this week, once again, Mrs Finance Minister joins the chorus and comes again to pretend that emigration is a kind of extension of Erasmus and that must be seen as a challenge. It's not a challenge! It is a dramatic option for families that have to take, it is a dramatic option for those who have to leave the country, and it cannot be seen with the lightness of a government that has no answers for young people to fix themselves and stay in the country who want to help build. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is the reality that remains to be degraded, that cannot remain unanswered. That is why the Socialist Party understands and is able to produce alternatives and suggest different proposals. And here in this Chamber we have presented a number of them, some of which, unfortunately, have already been rejected. It looks at the proposal for a moratorium on debt penalties — indeed, there is nothing more serious than that which is caused by irrational values which call into question the family home, which is at risk for certain families who are therefore at risk. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And here too it is necessary to have authority to attempt to resort to the system of aggressive penhoras, it is necessary for those who have to explain in this House about their contribution journey to give them, because it will only be moral in order to be able to require others who may be called to stone, to be called to responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more than urgent interventions, it is necessary to think in a structured way about the future—and that is why the Socialist Party has brought here proposals aimed at looking at the housing sector, taking advantage of the possibility of financing social security and creating mechanisms that are sustainable and effectively giving new answers. This is also why the Socialist Party has spent the weekend drawing responses of proximity with its authorships so that they can offer public services of proximity and offer to the people what they need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, this week, the Socialist Party also delivers proposals to help students of higher education pay their tips in a phased way and without penalizing those who are stockholders of social action. That is why the Socialist Party is also able to present proposals on culture, benefiting from the tax system, to create incentives for investment in the restoration and dynamization of cultural activity. It is for all this that we beat and continue to beat, building an alternative and recognizing what most refuse to recognize: it is necessary to invest in public services, it is necessary to value them as an indispensable factor for growth, strengthening qualifications, competitiveness and quality of life throughout the territory. Together with our autoarchs, together with the Members who will hold parliamentary talks on the subject of poverty, economics and social problems, the Socialist Party will continue to say present and will continue to mobilize all Portuguese who do not resign and are available to mobilize Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u88	To ask questions, the honourable Members signed up. Members Hugo Lopes Soares, PSD, Cecilia Honorio, the Left Block, Nuno Magalhães, the CDS-PP, and Paula Santos, the PCP. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves will respond separately to each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u89	Mr President, Mr Delgado Alves, at the beginning of his speech, when he pointed out that he had recently mentioned Mr Luís Montenegro, I thought he was going to try to deny the seven facts — and they were seven, but they could be more, as you know — that they show how the country is, in fact, different — for the best, for the most part — from that country that you have left. But just like the ladies. Members have used the Portuguese to a defeatist speech, a speech that does not believe in Portugal, a speech that consistently fails in your forecasts, Mr. Deputies and PlayStation have managed to refute these facts and the glee that we were talking about recently. But he mentioned again the report of the European Commission. I would like to tell you here, Mr President, that we have all realized: the Socialist Party, this Socialist Party which in democratic history used to call the troika Portugal, is indeed the most troika-like party than the troika itself. Now it is the Socialist Party that says we do not listen to the European Commission, that we do not hear the institutions that were part of the troika. Therefore, the Socialist Party continues to welcome the troika, which so much liked to call Portugal in 2011, as it had already done on two other occasions in our democratic history. The Socialist Party, Madam President, also came here to talk about sectoral policies. A little while ago, we discussed health. Now, he's talking about education. And I thought the Socialist Party was saying that in 2011 the early school dropout rate was 23% and today it is 17%, 4%, i.e., which dropped significantly. I thought the Socialist Party was coming today to say that students who needed access to social action scholarships are getting faster and fairer today. But they also talked about justice. And I thought they were here saying that, in the last three years, there have been profound reforms in justice, namely, in criminal law, in executive action. I thought you were here to say that today the number of expectations is much lower. But the Socialist Party does not live only in Lisbon with taxes and taxes, it also lives in Parliament with cases and homes. The Socialist Party cannot, Madam President, have a serious and structural view of what are the sectors of public services and administration. But, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to say that what the social state really calls into question is deficit and debt. And there, in fact, you have been, and you are, some experts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u90	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u91	I shall conclude by leaving a very clear question to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Dr. António José Seguro said that one of the things the Portuguese reject is the politicians who say one thing in public and another in private to satisfy two audiences. Now, we heard, two weeks ago, statements by Dr. António Costa, saying that the Portuguese have won the crisis, that Portugal has come out of difficulties and that Portugal is different. And we heard the Socialist Party here with a completely different speech. Is it true or not, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, that the Portuguese are full of politicians with two speeches? What is the Socialist Party's speech? Is it Dr. António Costa, who believes in Portugal and that Portugal is better, or is it yours, that of the gentlemen who, here, for electionist purposes, continue to say the worst of this country, this country that we, every day, strive to push forward, because we believe in Portuguese and Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u93	In which countries should the Portuguese believe? in what Dr. António Costa portrays or in that one of which you constantly make here a fantastic portrait? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u94	Don't be demagogues!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u95	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u96	Madam President, let's then try to tie up seven and then mark more goals, to get past Mr Hugo Soares' PlayStation game. First of all — fact No 1 — the external aid is over. It's true. But, curiously, the European Commission itself points out that things are not going well and that macroeconomic imbalances remain all. Unemployment, they say, has decreased. Now, this is to ignore the factors that lead to this decrease and that are effectively related to emigration and the abandonment of several layers of the younger and more qualified population. [[PSD protests.]] We are talking about debt interest and we are trying to see if what lowers debt interest is an improvement in the real economy or whether it is the incentives and comfort cards that the European Central Bank has produced significantly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u97	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u98	It is enough to pay attention to today's press conference of the Governor of the European Central Bank to verify an immediate fall in market value.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u99	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u100	Tell that to Draghi!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u101	Why? It is precisely because today there is a network which is provided by the European bodies and which was not previously. But let's talk about exports and see that export values, curiously, grow to the lowest value that has been recorded in the last 10 years and that we have anemic growth. Indeed, the data that are so interested in empolaring in this fantasy game that they still want to play does not correspond to the reality of the sector. But let's continue: the deficit, they say, is controlled. Yeah, but the debt just blew up. And thanks to your intervention, the main objective of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme was not achieved, which was to solve the problems of imbalance and imbalance in debt. And finally, growth. If there is something that growth does not deserve to be presented as robust and irreversible when, in reality, it is anemic and it is not yet sustainable. So, Mr. Deputies, I think we played enough for the draw. But, now, let's go to the rest, because then you ask other questions: the troika. He says that the PS is now talking about the troika, talking about the troika institutions. The discovery of this debate is that apparently the PSD, which was the most troicky of the parties in this House, who was the one who was the most revenged and most guarded in those who were the opinions presented by the European bodies and the IMF, suddenly anathematized them like the devil, because he no longer liked what they say, no longer liked the fact that they showed that their formula failed and that they could not give timely answers. And let's talk about major reforms in the area of criminal law. The Minister of Justice is perhaps the largest collector of unconstitutionalities in the history of the Portuguese legal order! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the criminal order, surely, did not go unnoticed by the various diatrics that were made to him. But it concluded, because I also do not want to prolong the excessive debate, answering your final question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u102	Let's hear the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u103	In fact, we arrived at the end, at 3 minutes and 8 seconds of your request for clarification (until I thought it was earlier, but fortunately the watch allowed me to time it) and I was seeing when Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares came to put the question of Dr. António Costa's intervention at the famous conference at the Casino da Póvoa, he was seeing that it was already time (he had spent 3 minutes and 8 seconds) and almost did not mention it. But he was faithful to what I was waiting for and, indeed, once again distorting what was said and seeking to put words in the mouth of the leader of the Socialist Party that he did not say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u104	Isn't that right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u105	... very clearly distorted the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u106	We're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u107	I therefore clearly answer your question: it is clear that it is the speech that has been made, with regard to the need to attract investment to the country and, of course, to seek to bring those who participate with us in the construction of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u108	We're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u109	Another thing is to say that the diagnosis is this, fantastic and formidable, that the government presents. One thing is right: actually, today, we are better than we were four years ago, because there is only six months left for you to finish your duties. Indeed, we are much better than we were four years ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u110	The question is followed by Mrs Cecilia Honorio, from the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u111	Madam President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and tell you that, with regard to the diagnosis, we certainly have a deep agreement. He placed here the « finger on the wound» in relation to the degradation of public services, made a very strict portrait of the retreat of the public school, at all levels (the increase in the number of students per class, the reduction in the number of teachers, the reduction in investment) and, finally, he did not forget the justice and the caricature that we had a country with the courts practically paralyzed for 44 days and that until today the political responsibilities have not been shaken. And he told us about poverty. He therefore gave us a deep and realistic portrait, which we accompanied on the damage of this blind austerity, recalling that, if she was a little less blind, this was due to the judgments of the Constitutional Court. It was good to bring this memory. But I am going to ask you a question—and finally I have even asked my parliamentary leader here how many times we have asked PS this question, if 10 if 20 times, and even told you that it is capable of this being the last fifth time—about the solutions. We agree with the diagnosis; the doubts remain regarding the solutions. How does the PS want to recover, requalify, save the National Health Service, public school, social security, lured to the budget treaty? This is the question that remains, whenever we ask this question. How is it possible, when the budget treaty is a commitment of more austerity, deeper, at least for more than 20 years—in relation to deficit and public debt commitments, which today, as you know, is very close to 130 % of GDP and which will have to be reduced, in the coming decades, to 60% of GDP—the PS is an alternative for more than two decades of austerity? It is that the budgetary treaty, Mr President, will be in your hands, it is truly yours, that will be an instrument of your governance. And in this sense, once again, I ask you: if the PS wins the next elections, how is it able to say that it has the conditions to restore quality to citizens and citizens, in particular by re-qualifying public services, gripped on this commitment of deep austerity, for at least two more decades? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u112	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u113	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I thank you for the question that you are asking, which can be asked times and times without account but the answer is the same, and it is up to you that the European framework is exactly the same, that is, Portugal, Greece, Spain and the countries on the periphery of the European Union to deal with this institutional framework. Is this an institutional framework that we like? Is it an institutional framework capable of promoting growth as it should? I am even concerned with the will to say this because I abstained in the vote on the budget treaty. Therefore, either on a personal basis, or even as an analysis of the potential of the budgetary treaty, the diagnosis that is made is, in fact, that of perpetuating solutions that are not the best. But from that point on, that the possible solution is to say that we do not participate, we do not play, we do not play with these boys, even though they are the owners of the ball, whether or not they are the owners of the ball... That is at the moment we have no choice but to question the budget treaty in our own places, to promote their amendment and, above all, to make an intelligent interpretation of the budget treaty. It is true that the level of intelligence needed is high and the blockade we face in the European institutions is not the best. But even the Greek Government, the government chaired by Syriza and the Greek Minister of Finance, have made it clear that at the time we meet, we have to work with these tools until we have the ability to change them. There is a fundamental difference, which is exactly similar to what began to happen in Athens: the attitude is the difference. The attitude of the Portuguese Government is an attitude of subservience, acceptance and even uncomfortable to think that our gentlemen, those who command us, are not being hard enough with the other 'unresponsible boys' we find in southern Europe. Unfortunately, the attitude of the Portuguese Government has repeatedly been an attitude of submission and not understanding the problem facing Europe. It is therefore essential to change this approach, because, by changing it, a Portuguese government that takes possession of tomorrow and that has the ability to talk to partners who want to mobilise Europe for change will make all the difference and will be able to take advantage of the opening doors which, today, the European Commission is giving us, through the investment plan and through declarations that are quite comforting in terms of a change of policy at European level and which will be the fantastic starting point for a result that we hope will be as fantastic as the ready start. We have no illusion about the difficulty of the path ahead. We also have no illusion when all those who are against the budgetary treaty, who reject their proposals and want an alternative, participate and be responsible for their participation. So I am returning the question to you, Mrs Cecilia Honorio : is it available to participate in a construction that does not promote great but promotes good? Is the Left Block available to help build a European alternative and an alternative in Portugal, or will it continue to take refuge in a protest position, which is unfortunately not fruitful? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u114	To ask questions by the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u115	Madam President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I have heard that today was, in my opinion, enlightening, because we had two assurances. The first certainty is that for the Socialist Party, the fact that Portugal, the Portuguese, companies, entrepreneurs and workers have known how to get out of the bankruptcy situation to which the former Socialist Party Government conducted it from 2011 to 2015, have fulfilled the program, have paid what we should, have left in time and without conditions, have no merit at all! No Portuguese have merit in this. No, no, there are 13 who have merit, who are the 13 councillors of the Constitutional Court. The only Portuguese who worked hard at the difficulties, who managed to recover, who managed to get the exports better, who managed to meet the commitments, the only Portuguese who were responsible for this, for the Socialist Party — which led Portugal to bankruptcy, I repeat — were 13 constitutional counsellors. It's extraordinary! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We have a second assurance, Mr President — you will hear again and you will understand why. It is that the PS has two completely different speeches and one is this: if you reduce interest, it is Mr. Draghi who is guilty; if Portugal is better, the Portuguese have no responsibility, it is the Constitutional Court. Then there is the speech of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, who, revealing a sense of state, says (I will repeat not to say that we decontextualize it): « As we say in Portugal, friends are for occasions. And on a difficult occasion for the country(...) » — it was difficult in 2011 to break up, remember? — '(...) in which many did not believe' — the Socialist Party did not believe, do you remember? He said we were going to have a second rescue, which was for days! — « (...) that the country was able to face and overcome the crisis, the fact is that the Chinese, the investors said ‘present’, came and made a great contribution so that Portugal could be today in the situation in which it is, quite different from that in which it was four years ago». Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, even the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party realizes that there are companies, entrepreneurs and workers working every day to recover the country and that there were not 13 councillors of the Constitutional Court who were able to remove the country from the atoll, from the shelter and from the bankruptcy in which you left us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That is why, Mr President, I must say to you that it is overwhelming that a structural party of Portuguese democracy, such as the Socialist Party, has become a kind of small protest party. The honourable Member has come up with a diagnosis saying it's all wrong, but he does not make a single proposal about how he's going to pay for everything he says he's going to put back, which he's going to reassess. Mr President, I would like to ask two questions. What is the physiotherapy of the Socialist Party? What is the intelligent reading that will allow you to fund all the promises you are making? If you do not do so, then the Portuguese do, in relation to the PS — and using the football metaphor — what the Sporting de Espinho did last week. You know what happened? He's a coach! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u116	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u117	Mr President, in fact this football metaphor is being used until death, but I am going to give it another « shock». Indeed, what is being discussed is the replacement of the coach, Mr. And what we're looking at is that, unlike the illusory vision that you're having in a playStation game you're playing, where the coach is sitting on the couch and you think very candidly that the game is running beautifully, if the coach opens the door to reality will check that their players are half-age, are hard means, have a beer belly, they don't run, they can't make the warming, they're all full of screws and they don't mark a goal. This is the reality: you are looking at television and are not looking at the field of the game. It was necessary for the honourable Member to return to the cargo, at 27 seconds (it was much faster than Mr Hugo Soares, who took 3 minutes to bring Dr. António Costa's statement ). The fact is that the reading of the declaration is only in the sense of what we have just said, because there is never, at any time, a song of praise to the capacity of the current government. The statement is limited to finding something simple: was the situation in 2011 difficult? Well, it was. We were in the middle of an international crisis, we were in the middle of a budgetary crisis. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u118	But at some point it was questioned that 2011 was a difficult year or that these years were difficult? At some point it has been questioned that it is useful to have foreign investment and that, in the context where we are, we should tell foreign investors "thank you very much for your investment and how they are helping"? Oh, my God! It is impossible not to recognize that today things are different, but from here to the logical leap that you are giving, that is to say that there is a paradise on earth, which is what has become Portugal... At the beginning of your speech, you speak of those to whom we should thank. I don't think it's about thanking you. We have to apologize to the unemployed; you have to apologize to the person who emigrated; you have to apologize to the person who was left without RSI; you have to apologize to the person who saw the support cut out for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have to apologize for the increase in child poverty. It is not thanks to those who have suffered, it is to apologize and once again explain to them that they are not only worse because we are still a rule of law and because we still have a Constitution of the Republic that protects us from the dismissals of those who are not right! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u119	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u120	Madam President, I welcome Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. at this moment, what is on the table is to return to the CEP. We all remember what the CFPs of the past, the damage that has caused thousands and thousands of Portuguese and the consequences they have had in our country. We now return to the CFP in an even worse situation: we return when we have more than EUR 51 billion of public debt, we return when there are 2, 7 million Portuguese at risk of poverty, we return when there are 2, 1 million Portuguese at unemployment. Above all, we still have the obligations of the budgetary treaty to fulfil. That is why, Mr President, and because this question has not been fully clarified yet, the first question I want to ask you is exactly how we can solve these problems, how we can develop our country when we have the PEC and the budgetary treaty taxes. Mr President, the second question I would like to ask you has to do with a number of aspects which you have dealt with in your speech and have made a long criticism of a set of essential rights of public services and the consequences of this policy. In fact, we would like to point out, with regard to public health services and the National Health Service, problems that have not come from today, which have been a long time ago, but that no one has undoubtedly worsened much with the policy of this PSD/CDS-PP government. The truth is, in recent years, we have witnessed a massive degradation of public health services, with no capacity to respond to the needs of the population, even endangering the right to health of thousands and thousands of Portuguese people. The honourable Member, in his speech, criticized health policies. Question : What is the Socialist Party's commitment? What measures and what solutions does the Socialist Party have to resolve these issues and to enable the National Health Service to respond to the needs of Portuguese people? What are the commitments they make with the end of the moderate rates, with the guarantee of transport of non-emergency patients to all those who need access to health, with the reopening of public services or with the professional and social enhancement of health professionals whose rights have long been attacked, which has called into question their motivation and dignity as professionals? These are the answers that the country is waiting for by the Socialist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u121	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u122	Madam President, Mrs Paula Santos, I thank you for the two questions you have raised. I'm starting for the last one. As I said recently, the National Health Service is the backbone of the social protection system. Furthermore, for those who have recently been dedicated to cinema, there is a fantastic documentary on the creation of the national health service in the United Kingdom in 1945, which is very revealing of what is the transforming aspect that a public health service offer can represent for the quality of life and for the capacity of a country to rise and progress civilizationally, But safeguarding the National Health Service is also not to accept immobilism as a way of solving, and the Socialist Party, either what it has done in the current legislation, reacting to the attack that the National Health Service has been targeted, but also before, has always been guided by the recognition of the need to improve the National Health Service, namely through structural reforms that were introduced throughout its government period. Therefore, your question has two components. The first is to accept the principle that the National Health Service lacks reform, for example, by placing on the strengthening of the continuing care network, in rationalizing services for the provision of better health care, as has been done. I give the example of the very easy case to explore demagogically, which was the closure of maternity, but which, in fact, revealed better indicators of social protection and health, because it created better conditions in hospitals that received maternity. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] This epidermal reaction that I feel comes from the PCP bench is revealing the need for this debate to be done with the seriousness it deserves. That is, there are times when, in fact, rationalizing services makes sense, but there is something indispensable (and this is the second part of my answer): we cannot pretend that a structural reform is done to safeguard the National Health System without placing doctors, without funding, withdrawing doctors and funding, as the current majority did. This is the point on which the Socialist Party has been particularly clear throughout this legislature. It is undeniable that we will not be able to support the functioning of the National Health Service if we do not have the ability to do exactly what it said: bet on its professionals, qualify them and create a sustainable network for the whole country, responding to the new needs that appear in the large urban centres, which are disqualified at the level of supply, and if we look back, we check a requalification of the hospital network, for example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, as we have been doing in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u123	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u124	I conclude by leaving, on the first question, a note that I do not find interesting. I think it is interesting for the CFP to ask a question about the CFP. It was enough to remember that the PECs, however dark they may be in the presentation they make, would always be better than a gift and than submission to four years of austerity, as we had. Therefore, you can always return home and return the question to you. When the opportunity was given to a less serious solution, which would have avoided the external rescue, the Communist Party opted for an easy solution that penalized the Portuguese, which opened the way to the ransom, to the troika, which opened the way to increasing austerity. [[PCP protests.]] So I am returning the question and asking you to put the priorities in order in the future so that you can safeguard the best interests of the people and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u125	For a political statement, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the exercise of politics is essential in democracy, the 'politicism' and demagogy already do not take bread to anyone's mouth. Let us therefore focus on this in principle. Let us focus on such a reality that opposition flees, like the devil of the cross. Let us focus on the country that came out of a rescue, in the country that reduced the unemployment rate, in the country that came out of the recession, in the country that overcame the troika, in the country that honored its commitments, in the country that is harrowing with a raised head and not with an extended hand. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Let's focus on what we've already achieved and keep working. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has defended, defended and will always defend that economic growth and recovery are always dependent on three engines to operate at the same time: domestic demand, exports and investment. It is therefore important to know if these three engines are working and if they take us on the right path. Let's get to the facts. First: the internal search recovered in 2014 — the INE data thus confirm it. The Portuguese are more confident in the future. Secondly: exports continue to grow. We had, in 2014, the best year ever. We exceeded EUR 70 billion and recorded more than 40 % growth compared to the year 2009. Third : the investment is recovering, growing 5, 2 % in 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u127	False! He's grown 2, 3 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u128	... i.e. the highest rate since 1999. Foreign investment data confirm the upward trend. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before these numbers and before reality, what does the Socialist Party do? He does the pine with graphics and with rates to try to counter the stubborn reality, which, once again, does not make him right. You can do the numbers you want, but there's one thing we know: accounting, the PS doesn't match one! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We therefore have signs that we are on the right track, but we also know that the challenges are great, that it is too early to lower our arms but that it is too late to go back. It's too late for us to go back to it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. And returning to the time of the Socialist Party is to return home. Now, the lives of the Portuguese are a game and a matter too serious for us to go around and waste our opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u129	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the capacity that our country will have to consolidate the process of economic recovery depends heavily on the increase in investment. It is a sine qua condition not to praise the creation of wealth. That's and must be a priority. But the question that matters is the following: how does the government achieve this priority? How does it help companies? What tools are available to these companies? In short, how is the future of the country prepared? The answer is clear and is based on three key axes to increase investment: the Portugal 2020 fund programme, the IRC reform and the Investment Fiscal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u132	As for the first one, the new cycle of structural funds is undoubtedly an indispensable envelope to attract structural investment for Portugal. It is EUR 26 billion which are mainly intended to support companies. It should also be noted that, as this framework has been negotiated, the principle of territorial, economic and social cohesion is present. The northern, central and Alentejo regions have been strengthened. As for the second, the reform of the IRC, the Socialist Party had the opportunity to vote in favour but chose to vote against, which is always good to remember. Still, and despite the vote against the Socialist Party, the IRC rate continues and will continue to fall, if it depends on us, up to 17% in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u133	What did you say?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u134	As for the third, the importance of the Fiscal Code for Investment allows companies tax credits to create jobs and bet on technology. in the middle of all this, there is an unforgettable fact: we are really preparing the country for a more competitive scenario in the future. And why? Because we have sectors based on endogenous factors of production, such as agriculture and tourism, which grow and grow, especially at the level of the weight they represent in exports, as never before. Because traditional sectors that were weakened are revitalized and today are synonymous with innovation, such as textiles and footwear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u135	Today? Just today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u136	Because private investment is growing, gaining strength and gaining space. Because we have more and more entrepreneurs doing new business and giving cards in and out. Because we have recognizedly well-trained, qualified and competent human resources. Because we're getting into new markets, and we're growing out there means that our entrepreneurs are winning the place that others have lost or didn't know how to take advantage of. Because at the end of several years we managed to have a positive external balance, which means that we are selling more than what we bought to others and, therefore, there is more wealth inside — the PS does not realize this! Because we have an increase in investment in the marketable goods sectors, that is, those that act in competition and free market without the protection of the state — the PS does not realize this either! Because we have an increase in the weight of exports in wealth creation and that is very important because it means that we are overcoming the limitation of having an internal market of only 10 million consumers — the PS does not seem to understand this either! But what does this mean in Portuguese life? It means more income in the future, it means more wealth, it means more opportunities, it means more jobs, it means more consumption, it means more confidence, it means less taxes in the future, it means that there is a State that ensures its essential functions. But the opposition devalues all this and, unfortunately, it is always worrying to justify, with punctual factors — sometimes imported, sometimes not, now is the ECB, now it is the Constitutional Court, all that we have successfully achieved, and they do not realize that, when they devalue this effort, they insult those who, every day, for their work and for their merit, push this country forward. They insult those who work, insult those who invest, insult those who create, insult those who produce. Finally, Madam President, leaving a note to the opposition, but above all to the Socialist Party: don't worry, take care of presenting your proposals. The Portuguese will be here to evaluate them and we will debate them. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u137	Mrs Vera Rodrigues, you have signed up to request clarification. Deputies João Galamba, PS, Bruno Dias, PCP, and Nuno Filipe Matias, PSD. I inform you that Mrs Vera Rodrigues will answer together. Thus, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u138	Madam President, Mrs Vera Rodrigues, I thought we had reached the play limit with PlayStation, but I see that Mrs Deputy has put "a deep plea" which has been stuck in the virtual reality machine and she just lacks the helmet. It's just that what the honourable Member said didn't really fit into reality. Let's get to the facts. First of all, after GDP fell 5 %, 5 %, we grew 0 %, 9 %. GDP is at the level of 2001, i.e. more than a decade ago. GDP grew less than in the years prior to the crisis, between 2000 and 2007, as it grew 1 to 5 % ; it grew much less than in 2007, before the crisis, when the Portuguese economy grew more than 2 % ; and now it has grown less than in 2010, when the Portuguese economy grew 1 to 9 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u139	At the cost of debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u140	Let us see: Is growth today more sustainable? We know it's lower, but is it more sustainable? It is no longer sustainable, Mrs. The alleged great fact of this government was the reduction of the external deficit, which, this year, had a mere growth of 0, 9 %. However, this great fact of the government declines by 30 %. That is, with this growth rate and this growth profile, the external balance would disappear very quickly. The honourable Member said that internal demand is also one of the driving forces for growth. And it became the Minister of Finance, the former Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of Portugal, who said—I remember! — that the growth rates of private consumption above GDP were unsustainable. However, private consumption has not only grown more than GDP, it has increased twice as much as GDP! Madam Member, it is not worth talking about exports unless we talk about imports. If exports grow 4 % but imports grow much more, it is negative to the country. And that's what happened! Mrs. Member, look at the 2010 data, the year before the rescue. in this year, the Portuguese economy grew 1, 9 % and the contribution of net external demand was 0, 2 %. Now growth is 0, 9 %—so less—and the contribution of net external demand is the negative quadruple than it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u141	What about the deficit?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u142	That is, from the point of view of the change in GDP, it is quite negative and with this growth profile the deficit will return. Let's also look at the investment. The honourable Member said that the investment has grown 5 %, which is not true. Gross fixed capital formation, which is the only variable that is relevant, grew by 2, 3 %. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Member, do you know what the variation in stocks is? If you buy oil and not sell it soon, it increases the variation of stocks. You think this is investment? It's not investment! Investment — and the INE confirms – has grown 2, 3 %. [[At the moment, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u143	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u144	in GDP we returned 10 years, in employment rate we returned 20 years. Do you know how many years we've been returning to investment, Your Honor? We're 30 years old! We're at the '80s! And this year's investment is not only mediocre—2,3! — as it is slowing down, because in the last quarter it grew only 1, 5 %. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we do all the discussions in the world we want, but I ask you one thing: talk about reality and not about the efabulation of the majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u145	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u146	Mr President, Mrs Vera Rodrigues, we have listened very carefully to your variations on the subject of the Horta Seca memorandum with the propaganda script. I would like to ask a few very concrete questions about one of the aspects that has focused on its political declaration and which has to do with a very current issue and which has been of concern to the Portuguese economy these weeks: the Community funds, the Portugal 2020 framework and the regulations that are coming out. For more than a year, you have been returning to Portugal on propaganda, promising a rain of millions of euros, which will come, but the fact is that so far the practical result has not been any. Furthermore, the Government « fills the mouths » of Community funds, but it must be borne in mind that Portugal will receive EUR 26 billion of European funds between 2014 and 2020, but will pay in the same period only EUR 60 billion in interest. I mean, we got a mass pipe, we paid two and we still returned the vasillame.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u148	There are still questions to be answered and the honourable Member cannot ignore them. Is it not true that the financial and banking criteria will be given priority to such a famous promotion bank? in the intermediation between the state and the small company there will be two banks: one that is not a bank, the promotion bank, which is the wholesaler, and the other, which is the commercial bank, is the retailer, and which has a position of advantage and favor in relation to the company. is it not true that the bulk of the funds will continue for large companies and foreign capital, remaining a few miles for micro and small enterprises? Is it not true that, in training and qualification, what is being pointed out is to take even further the option of transforming Community funds on the basis of financing the current expenditure of the Ministry of Education? How does it explain that support for companies is made with regulations that provide for future subsidiary responsibility, involving, for possible irregularities in the future, the people who represent the company in the candidature today, even when the facts happen, three or four years from now, nothing has to do with the company? However, there is still a lack of response to the problem that is being posed and which threatens to prevent most micro and small enterprises from starting from being taxed by indexary methods and minimum collection—e.g. the CFP and the simplified scheme—from applying for Community funds and other benefits, thus being excluded from support. What are we, after all, Mrs. Member? These are five or six concrete questions, which have to do with the real life of the Portuguese economy in the application of this so-called Community support framework. The question and our challenge remains, Mrs. Leave propaganda there, go down to the earth and answer concrete questions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u149	Mr Nuno Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay special tribute to Mrs Vera Rodrigues for the relevant topic that has brought us and, above all, I would like to point out to her that there is an opposition which, unfortunately, complains but, fortunately, there is one Portugal that continues to work and the results show it. The statement, the fiber, the courage, of those who do not give up, helps to affirm a new time, also economic. When I said here that there were three engines that are stimulating and leveraging economic growth is important, because they are facts: there is more internal demand, it is true, but there is also more investment, and that is a fact. There are more exports, it's a fact; it's a year remember 2014, over a record year, of 2013 and therefore when you try to create here a fantasy that exports descend or grow less, what's true is that it's a record year about a record year in relation to exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u151	Liquid external search is negative! Negative!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u152	Mr. João Galamba spoke here recently about GDP growth before the crisis and I would like Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, if she could, to confirm if we went, or not, too long to grow on buying debt. If Mr Galamba wants to review official statistics, he can see that between 2000 and 2011 gross public debt growth was, in absolute value, EUR 131 billion, almost twice the money we had to seek in the form of financial assistance. Therefore, this growth, which was, yes, anemic and, yes, unsustainable, unfortunately reversed in the form of debt and in the form of the effort that the Portuguese have made. But in spite of everything, this did not prevent us from having economic growth from 2014 onwards, from having sustained reduction of unemployment, from having the ability to invest, from having the ability to export more. He spoke about the opportunity for Portugal 2020. Is it not true that what is being presented, whether in the method or in time, is in terms of a set of operational plans that will return the creation of investment and the demand for reproductive investment of wealth, and what is already being implemented, and that the government's ambition is to have by the end of this year about 5 % of implementation, which is substantially three times more than what was recorded, by comparison, in the first year of implementation of the RNA, leads to economic growth? Is it true that these instruments, this set of ambitions, this strategic vision that leads to economic growth, yes, sustained not in debt but in real wealth creation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u153	In reply, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u154	Mr President, Mr Galamba, unlike Mr Galamba, as I don't usually walk by bike, I don't even need a helmet, but Mr Deputy also has another thing, because he continues to defend a model of growth that he hasn't yet realized has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u155	If the other one was bad, this one is bad too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u156	The honourable Member belongs to a bench of a party that has been in government and has led the country to pre-banking. What is the part of this sentence that you have not yet understood? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u157	I'm tired of explaining, but I can explain again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u158	I heard your statements and the honourable Member turned around, turned the opposite and made camcorders with INE data.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u159	Cambalhots? Stock changes are not investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u160	What the INE Bulletin says, textually, is that investment has grown 5, 2 %... [[PS Deputies Protest João Galamba.]] ... and what Mr. Minister of Economy says is that the strategy of Portugal goes through the operation of three engines. You can look for statements — I know that you are now behind statements, particularly from people in this government — go there and see if you are not on the part of the Minister who has the protection of the economy the reference to these three engines. It's in several places, in several newspapers, go to Google and you'll find it. Its growth model has not worked and, in fact, it is necessary to have some discharge to refer to the growth of debt... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u161	Mr President, I would like Mrs Vera Rodrigues to finish her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u162	The honourable Member, who likes macro-economic theory so much, will study the evolution of debt and then bring numbers. Its demagogy is not enough to convince and contradict the reality in which people live. Mr Deputie, who exports, are the companies, see there is another strategy, namely to put forward proposals, because rebating, countering and devaluing the export growth strategy and what Portuguese entrepreneurs have done is a misstrategy, weak and fall by root. Mr Bruno Dias, with regard to financing, Portugal has never had such a relevant funding package as it has now. In addition to Portugal 2020, this week the government has formalised the candidacy of 30 projects to another package, a package of which it has certainly heard of, that of the Connecting Europe Facility, where there is a set of investments that cross the country from north to south and which are structural investments that cover the railway sector and the port sector. I would also like to tell you that I understand that you are calling into question the business support strategy because the CFP does not like companies, the CFP does not like private investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u163	Can't you get anything better than this? Is this the CDS response? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u164	So what you have to say is very short for us and we will continue to support companies, their access and business investment funds. Mr Nuno Matias, in fact, the investment package that the country currently has is larger than ever and the business support strategy is fundamental because it is essentially for private investment and it is for the work of the Portuguese entrepreneurs, managers and workers that we are going there, that is how we are going to get out of the hole in which the Socialist Party has put us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u165	For a political declaration, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The images that we will see and which are designed are from the building of the National Conservatory School of Music in Lisbon. The absolutely degrading conditions in which the Conservatory operates are the full example of how successive governments, and in particular the current PSD/CDS government, distort public heritage, culture, education, the country and, in particular, artistic education. We do not forget that the problem is not now, it persists and has been worsening for decades. The only background works will have been done in the 40s of the last century, in this school that will fulfill its 180 years on the next day of May 5. But today the deep degradation of the building reaches an unacceptable situation of gravity, challenges the safety of the entire educational community and has caused the temporary closure of several classrooms, with serious damage to the school course of the students. The National Conservatory Music School works in the old Caetanos Convent, built in the 17th century, requiring interventions on the roof, soundproofing of the rooms, recovery of the windows, heating, spaces for individual practice, as well as a deep intervention in the noble hall. The entire structure of the building has a high state of degradation, cracks on the walls due to failures in the settlement of the materials and the whole ceiling needs urgent replacement. in the rooms of the upper floors have already dropped pieces of the ceiling while passing classes and many are closed when it rains for the protection and safety of students and teachers. in the main auditorium, whose ceiling has fresh José Malhoa, the structure of the walls presents structural deficiencies and in order to literally avoid the ruin of the walls were placed metal pillars, provisionally, in 1995, which have since remained. The curtains of the hall have been the same since 1940 and the chairs have a high degree of degradation. Mr. President, Members: The Conservatory currently has around 970 students, 280 of whom are in integrated education of 5. the 12th. year. These students had already been affected by the delay in the placement of teachers at the beginning of the school year and now suffer again the consequences of political options that are rooted in the precariousness and disinvestment of the public school. The CFP has been presenting proposals for the construction of works in the Conservatory since 2007. PS, PSD and CDS repeatedly rejected these proposals. In October 2014 the CFP again presented this proposal, now approved unanimously. However, and because the money was not provided for in the 2015 State Budget, the CFP submitted a proposal to ensure that the work was carried out in 2015. Again, PS, PSD and CDS voted against. The former PS Government did not perform the necessary works, nor did the current PSD/CDS Government. For the Portuguese Communist Party it is urgent to stop the process of degradation of the National Conservatory's School of Music and to carry out the structural works to safeguard it. We welcome the educational community for the courageous struggle that has been hampered by the dignity of artistic education and the democratic regime. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines as the duty of the State to guarantee all citizens access to the highest levels of education, scientific research and artistic creation. The April Revolution opened doors, in terms of education, to the creation of conditions for the entry of the arts into the life of schools. However, successive PS, PSD and CDS governments have come to devalue the role of art in education. Public investment in specialized artistic education translates into the degradation of the wealth of knowledge accumulated throughout generations, in the waste of the numerous contingents of higher level artistic training holders, in the impoverishment of the cultural experience of the populations. The existence in the continental national territory of only seven public schools of artistic education specialized in music and dance, all distributed by the coast and above the Tagus, is an obstacle to the realization of a policy of democratization of art teaching. The Portuguese Communist Party reaffirms that only the creation of a public network of specialized artistic schools covering the entire territory can be an effective element of the development of the artistic capacities of the school population. The PCP refuses to close schools in the hands of underfinancing, the PCP refuses to deny dreams in the lives of these young people and refuses to devalue socio-laboral and dismissal of professionals. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, the students of the Conservatory put a band in the school building where they read: "The "School of Music of the National Conservatory doesn't give up" and we from here welcome this courage and determination: don't stop fighting! It is for the struggle that have gained rights, for the struggle that will require its fulfillment. In defence of the right to education for all, for the valorization and dignity of artistic education, for a fairer country and for the right to be happy in our country, for the defence of the democratic regime, we appeal to all democrats to join in the struggle for defeat of this government and this policy, placing the values of April in the future of Portugal. [[PCP applause.]] [[During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u167	Three Members are registered to request clarification from Mrs Rita Rato. Does the honourable Member answer together or individually?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u168	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u169	Thus, the first inscription to request clarification is from Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u170	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I would first of all like to thank the CFP for bringing this issue back to debate. last week, we already discussed the issue of specialized artistic education and the majority presented, however, a project to ensure that the financing mechanisms of the diversified system of specialized, professional and out there are altered. Specifically in relation to the Conservatory, I think there are several notes to be considered and exposed here. The first is that, as the honourable Member knows, the Conservatory has not had structural works for the past 70 years, i.e. the guilt and responsibility of the state of degradation to which the Conservatory has arrived, as has been explained here, it is obviously not this government, so it would not be dishonest but somehow unfair to hold this government responsible for the state to which the Conservatory has arrived. We will say even more, which is the following: the former Prime Minister, Eng. José Socrates, committed himself, at a certain time of his legislature, saying that one of the priorities for the investment of the School Park would be a structured intervention at the Lisbon Conservatory.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u171	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u172	That's about the School Park. What was done was all but works at the Lisbon Conservatory, i.e., if they had somehow saved some tostoons in all the investments in the megalomanian works of the School Park, if they had saved and booked several tostoons, they had managed to do the works at the Conservatory, but they did not. You missed an excellent opportunity to do it, you didn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u173	That's right! Four years off! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u174	...and so far you don't see why that happened. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] What happens is that the Conservatory only entered the third stage of the works of the School Park, that is, the priority that the former Prime Minister said he had, after all, had not and the right thing is that the Conservatory arrived at the state in which it was. My question also refers to another point which the honourable Member mentioned here in her political statement, which has to do with the fact that there are only seven public arts schools. My question is this: do you think that, in fact, private institutions, private entities, private schools that provide this public education service and that ensure that this public education service is diversified, should or should not continue to contract with the State? Should this public education service not only be provided to public schools but also to private schools, which have contracts with the State? I would like the CFP to really refer to the system which defends, whether or not it defends the inclusion of private individuals within the public system. It was good to clarify this issue to understand where the defense of artistic education that the PCP is going to do is going. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u175	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u176	Mr President, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, for now, I want to tell you that the School of Music Conservatory is a public school, and we are talking about a public school. She spoke here about specialized artistic schools and private and cooperative education and what we say is that the public network of public schools of artistic music and dance are only seven.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u177	But the others are also part of the teaching system!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u178	This is well reflected in the de-investment of successive governments, PS, PSD and CDS-PP, in guaranteeing the right to education, including artistic education in the country. But I'm telling you something else, Mrs. Member : the project you presented here last week has nothing to do with public school, only has to do with private school,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...because the government's commitment is not to public school. In fact, Mrs. Member, allow me to say to you here, invoking the School Park, that what the PSD/CDS government would have paid in rents from the School Park would have been enough to do four works in the Conservatory. It is a question of political choice! What we understand is that it is unacceptable for the PSD and the CDS, when they are in opposition, to ask questions to the government, as Mrs Teresa Caeiro did in 2005, when she asked the Government why there was no intervention in order to recover the Conservatory — that was in 2005! — but when they are in the government and can solve the problems make us worse. We understand that this is unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]] The PCP commitment is to the Conservatory, it is to the public school, it is to the public network, because we understand that it is fundamental. But, Madam Member, we also have no problem telling you, because this was the proposal we discussed here last week, which we understand that the network of artistic and specialized schools requires respect and dignity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u179	Ah! Doesn't look like it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u180	...but you and your government didn't do that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u182	We therefore proposed, in the State Budget, that the financing of these schools should not be made through the POPH (Human Potential Operational Programme) but through the State Budget. All right, Mrs. Deputy! This government neither for some nor for others, this government only serves economic groups, but for that they do not count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u183	A special greeting to Mrs Rita Rato because she has fulfilled her time, which is an increasingly rare thing here in the various interventions. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u184	Mr President, as a previous note, I would like to say that I have been a teacher of the National Conservatory of Lisbon for 27 years, I have been an artistic teacher for 35 years, and therefore I know that house better than any of the Members here. I must say that, over the past ten years, the degradation of that building has been accentuated by the natural order of things. And it was accentuated because all the hopes were placed in a wide-ranging work that was supposed to have been done by the School Park, but this work did not happen, contrary to what Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira said, not because it was not a priority but because it was a work that needed a background intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u185	Because you forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u186	... from a heritage perspective, as happened, moreover, with the Liceu Passos Manuel and with the Liceu Pedro Nunes. We are talking about the building of the Convento dos Caetanos, founded in 1836, so we are talking about heritage that needs a careful intervention, which does not have to do with a modern intervention in a modern school. Unfortunately, one of the best remodeling initiatives in our school park was completed at the initiative of this government and therefore this programme ended without the Caetans Convent being able to intervene. We're sorry! As we also regret, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, that Mr Minister has not come here to explain why his party and the PSD have dropped the PS's request to bring Mr Nuno Crato here to explain why the situation has reached this point. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in fact, it was enough for Mr. Minister to explain to us how it can rain within a 19th century heritage, how it can be a school with tradition, with the importance, with the cultural influence that the Conservatory has to reach the point at which it arrived. Things have deteriorated as they have been degraded, but at the moment the shift is yours and it is about your turn that they have to explain. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u187	Right now, it's your responsibility! Our responsibility was to insert into a conversion programme that we did not have time to make. Now, those who explain are the gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u188	Four years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u189	I'd also like to remember...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u190	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u191	Mr President, very quickly, I would just like to thank Mrs Rita Rato for bringing this matter up, because once again she has put the focus on the total devaluation of artistic education that has been played by this government. Never seen that in 40 years of democracy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u192	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u193	Mr President, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas, in fact, she is a teacher, as you have said here, but she was also Minister of Culture of a Government who, along several proposals... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u194	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down, that I am also going to the PSD, because unfortunately the responsibilities give to the three parties! When the CFP, irrespective of the Government, presented concrete proposals to resolve the Conservative problem, whenever it was time to make concrete decisions, PS, PSD and CDS were always united against the guarantee of money for the work. [[PCP applause.]] This has to go from speech to practice, because, in terms of the principles of guaranteeing the right to education, culture and heritage, everything is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u195	It's like the PCP, it also has to move from speech to practice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u196	Yes, sir. Members, but when last November, a proposal from the CFP was discussed here...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u197	It was an avant-garde proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u198	She was not avulsive, Mrs. Member, it was a proposal that said « The initial phase of works of the Lisbon Conservatory in 2015 is guaranteed ». Now, PS, PSD and CDS voted against. This is deeply negative, because we all know of the indignity and degradation of that heritage, we all know of the insecurity that occurs in those facilities and we all know of the passion that these professionals and those students have and the devaluation that you are subject to artistic education. So, for the PCP, enough speeches. It is necessary to take action and it is necessary to ensure, once and for all, artistic education, its appreciation and the appreciation of the Conservatory and its educational community. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u199	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u200	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to say that your last statement, in response to the Socialist Party, is almost perfect. That's right, it's almost perfect. We, in the Social-Democrat Bank, always defend specialized artistic education, always defend these matters and have not had a different attitude because we are in the majority that supports the government or the opposition. however, the honourable Member here created an inaccuracy: in 2008 the only parliamentary group that did not vote, because she did not have a proposal for the construction of works, was that of the Socialist Party. At present, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has justified the question of the great intervention that would be made by the School Park. I'd like to do a little history here, because this is important. No building reaches the state of degradation that we have just seen—and we will have the opportunity to visit—in a space of three years. It's not possible! And I'd like to make a story why? In 2005 a public competition was launched by the Ministry of Education for the realization of works, particularly in the noble hall, in classrooms, in the gallery, on stage, under floor and cover. But don't worry! — the same Minister who launched it, in 2008, extinguished it, without any explanation, other than that of the School Park. But, then, let's look for a little more and we notice that the issue of this work and its priority was relegated to the third stage, this stage at a time when Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas was Minister of Culture, as it was well remembered here. And she had been a professor of this Conservatory, so she would have an added weight to negotiate the time and stage when the Conservatory could have the intervention, but she did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u201	They're not about personal issues in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u202	Then in 2009 the then Prime Minister José Socrates decided to state, on a visit to a school, that he would anticipate 100 third-stage schools for an earlier moment, but once again— stop! — the Conservatory does not appear in the execution of these works. There is also another issue that the Social Democratic Party here wants to remember: in 2007 it was unanimously approved, on the proposal of the PSD councilors, and of the, then, councillor, today Member, Dr. Fernando Negrão, a motion and recommendation for the House to make the supervision and intimidate the government to do works, intimacy that which never appeared. There were legal doubts as to whether the House could or could not act, and we are talking in 2007. I think it's a long time — it's seven years! — for the President of the City Council of Lisbon to follow up on a unanimous decision adopted in the Chamber. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u203	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u204	So for us, right now, and this is our concern, the problem is being addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u205	We're on election campaign! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u206	currently, the Ministry, together with the school, is finding solutions to anticipate the most urgent works.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u208	Mr President, the matter is so serious that we are discussing it two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u209	Yes, yes, but there is a Rules of Procedure to be complied with, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u210	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is indeed a priority for us that these students should not be harmed in their school course and that is what we are committed to resolving, not with cheap demagogy. I believe that today, at school, teachers, directors, students and parents have some difficulty in seeing our deliberations as a solution, but what we want is to solve the problem. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u211	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u212	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, it is very obvious to parents, teachers and students who are responsible for the situation. And this successive pass-off between PS, PSD and CDS doesn't solve the problem, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. PS, PSD and CDS are responsible and people know! Now, we need to find solutions, because people are tired of talking. We therefore put forward a proposal to guarantee investment, because the work does not go without investment. Mrs. Deputy can give the pirouettes you want, go to the Lisbon Chamber and go back, go to the Cascais Chamber and come, that the responsibility is the Ministry of Education, the responsibility is the government! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u213	The honourable Member should have said here that the Ministry's document is saying that the money will be transferred, because people have not yet seen any written documents to say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u214	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u215	So, serious engagement, zero! How many years of government? Four! Four years of government and the problem continues to be solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u217	But you spoke here of a draft resolution, which is also something that the PSD does when it is in opposition but does not do when it is in government. And it is good to see that there was a PSD Member, named Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, who said that the petition that was made at the time and that motivated this discussion was a red card to the public authorities, who left the National Conservatory of Lisbon to be abandoned! Red card, Your Honor! What color will you have today if it was red? Oh, my God! For us, one thing is very clear: responsibility is clear, people have the right to a solution! These students have already been harmed and the government has guaranteed nothing to safeguard pedagogical recovery measures! The teachers were placed, some at the end of October, lost classes, have a curriculum regime and an even more demanding hourly load. The classes, in some cases, were temporarily suspended. What measures will the Ministry of Education take to ensure that none of these students will be harmed? from PSD and CDS, zero answer! Therefore, we understand that it is fundamental and it is fair to continue to fight for artistic education, for the conditions appropriate to the operation of the Conservatory and for the dignity of a right enshrined in the Constitution and that it was a conquest of the Revolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u218	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u219	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I welcome the political statement that brought the debate and I ask you if you may not have the same perplexity as I am. It's just that we don't understand exactly what most people are planning to do! It's been 70 years since the Conservatory has no works, it's true! He needs works now. Who's in the government? PSD and CDS, right? But they didn't say anything about it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Are they in opposition or are they in government? Don't you guys know where they are? Oh, my God! They're in the government! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I remember that last week, the Left Block asked the Minister of Education to be present here to explain the National Conservatory and the PSD and the CDS said it was not necessary, because everything was resolved. Really? Oh, my God! ...the next day, the students closed the school! In fact, it is good to remember that those who are taking on their responsibilities, who are taking responsibility for a building that is over 70 years old are students who are under 20 years old, who are under 15 years old! And they are taking on the responsibility that the government is unable to assume! That's why they closed school! So they made a human cord! So they came to play here in front of the Assembly of the Republic! So they made the funeral march, the vigil! That's why they were giving class today in the Truck High School! They are taking responsibility for defending what is the country's heritage, which is the country's past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u221	... but also what is the future of the country, which is artistic education!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u223	Unfortunately, PSD and CDS assume neither responsibility for preserving heritage nor responsibility for the future, which is the existence of art and artists in Portugal. It's 70 years without works! Works need to be done! You are in government, you have responsibility, you have to answer for them now! They cannot continue to protest against the governments of the past. You have to say what this government does! There are 500 students affected by rooms being closed and not having classes! You have to give them an answer now! The school year has already begun bad because you didn't put teachers. It is that students who today do not have classes in rooms where the ceiling falls are also the same ones who, at the beginning of the school year, did not have teachers in artistic education. It was even worse than the rest of the school. And, as you know, none of this went very well in your photograph. The school year is at risk, the cycle of studies is at risk, so it is necessary to answer concrete questions. I therefore ask you, Mrs Rita Rato, if you are not as perplexed as I am with the fact that the majority still have nothing to say. Now there is a need for a 'quick thinking' for the Conservatory to work now, and this 'quick thinking' is already work for the classes to take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u224	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u225	How much money is needed? When will it come? How will the works be done? And how are we going to solve the class problem up there? There is a serious problem: if quick thinking solves a few months, we have other years around! You're going to have to solve the underlying problem seriously! What are you guys planning on doing? When? How much money do you need? What are you going to do? How, however, do they guarantee the school year and students have classes? After all, ladies and gentlemen, will I be wrong or do you think that in this matter PSD and CDS feel that they are in opposition, because they have completely forgotten their responsibilities? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u226	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u227	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, in fact, on the part of the PSD and the CDS we have heard nothing concrete about the resolution of this problem. And if it is true that on the side of the PSD and the CDS we have heard nothing, we have also heard nothing about the concrete need to ensure immediate measures to guarantee the quality of education and measures that do not further harm these students. We understand that the argument that there is no money to perform works in the Conservatory is unacceptable! A government that created a company, which was the School Park company, which carried out works... [[Who said that?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u228	Who said that? Subsequent Governments of PS and PSD and CDS. [[PSD protests.]] When the PCP proposed, in the budget of the State, in the specialty, the guarantee of money to carry out the work... Mrs. Member, it must be to use the money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u229	It was October!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u230	It was the PCP that proposed the guarantee of the money to carry out the work! And at that time PS, PSD and CDS voted against. Therefore, we understand that it is a sign given to people when it is said that there is no forecast of money to carry out the work! Or do you think people think the work is done without money? There are interventions that have to be immediate, but there is a plan that has to be substantive. The PS, PSD and CDS members followed a draft resolution in theory, but in practice they did not guarantee their provision. Therefore, if there is a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which was adopted at the initiative of the CFP, but which has been unanimously adopted today is a resolution of this House, then that the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic is complied with and that the work is guaranteed in 2015! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u231	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we can never accept is that they say there are EUR 1045 million in tax forgiveness for SGPS and that there is no money for education!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u232	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u233	There's money for public-private partnerships, but there's no money for education!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u235	There is money for the School Park and for the cells of the Board of Directors, but there is no money to do works! Then you're done with this company! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members, responsibility is for the three parties, because PS, PSD and CDS have voted against PCP proposals for the extinction of the School Park and for the recovery of its heritage to the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u236	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u237	The PS, PSD and CDS wanted to create a company that did a works business, but that did not guarantee the works! So today we have an unacceptable situation, which people do not accept, for which you are responsible. And people need solutions! Therefore, on the part of the CFP, we are supportive of the struggle of the educational community of the Conservatory, we understand that it was this struggle and that pressure that forced you to vote in favour of our project, and it will be this struggle, this pressure and this mobilization that will defeat this government and this policy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u238	For a political statement, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The warning signs are there, they cannot be ignored. Amnesty International's annual report ( 2014 ) on the state of human rights in our country insists on reporting the excess force used by police and discrimination of communities such as gypsy, from the dominant demolition of Vidigueira to the special group of Roma children. In 2012 a UN report concluded, after visiting experts to the country in 2011, and after working with all responsible entities, that people of African origin living in Portugal are under-represented in decision-making processes, have no equal access to education, public services and employment, are discriminated against in the justice system, are victims of racial discrimination and violence by the police, and that neither the data on the different ethnic and cultural minorities are sufficient to know them truly. But in the country of « soft customs», where racism is so often subtle, sometimes things explode and cease to be so subtle! in recent times, the examples have multiplied, from the Casal da Boba in Amadora, to Quinta do Mocho in Sacavem, passing through Setúbal or through the cruelty of police intervention in the demolitions of the neighborhood Santa Filomena. On February 5, in the Moura Cave, five young men denounced the violence and xenophobia of the security forces. The Youth Mill Association, of the Cova da Moura, which is adept of nonviolent communication, has a comprehensive survey of all the efforts it has made since 2012 to prevent things from being like this! They held meetings with the security forces and with the traders, involved themselves in projects with the Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality, support their young people daily, the texts that produce recognize that the police have to do their work, and talk about proximity police; but reports of force abuse and racism have multiplied and have to live with the Rapid Intervention Corps of the PSP daily.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u240	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u241	The young people who sat with us at the Senate Hall in public hearing that we promoted last day 24 talked about the efforts and lack of results and gave voice to their victims. Flavio Almada was one of the young people assaulted at the Alfragide squad. He noted that "the suspension of the rule of law" that lives in the neighborhoods and spoke of the banality of racist hatred, including the speech of some security agents. And I quote again: “We blacks must die”. Other voices here have joined together, cases of women with children and elderly, assaulted or threatened, spoke of the banality of the fear of the police, this stigma that, even today, is to be a non-white Portuguese, even if it did not grow up in a poor neighborhood! They told us about the evictions, without any alternative, here so close. I want to remember Amadora's cases! If they live in 'complicated neighborhoods' they are all potential suspects. We know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, police intervention is only part of the problem. For decades, governments and authorities, in the absence of social housing policies or in the presence of them, but with a segregating profile, put these communities on the edge of the city halls of the big metropolis, and sometimes even painted different colors the neighborhoods to distinguish very well Africans and gypsies. Always waiting for nothing to happen! What went well — what went well, she insisted — was almost always dependent on the volunteerism of one and the other, such as the association of youth in the Youth Mill, which has not yet given up. But violence and racism can be absurd: for Portugal, who was elected member of the UN Human Rights Council for the two years 2015 / 2017, with a record vote, it is good to remember, these examples can only embarrass us. The Left Block will present a set of legislative initiatives to respond, more decisively, to racism also in the criminal framework. contrary to what is happening in so many European countries, a debate that was recently relived with an incident in the Paris subway with football fans from a British club, racism is not yet characterized as an autonomous crime in Portugal. In our view, it is also important to evaluate the behaviour of the security forces and to strengthen, in conjunction with the communities, the proximity police. So many times and so many times, the discourse of « soft customs» hides the existence of « white customs» behind its frame. It is up to the parties, the government, to the authorities on the ground to respond to an unsufficient sensation that exists in so many suburbs, reaching so many people, particularly so many young people in big cities. for our part, we are committed to this debate, which is fundamental to us, in the defence of democracy and fundamental rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u242	Madam Member, I would like to ask whether you want to reply together or separately to the Members who have applied for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u243	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u244	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, then, to make clarification, Mrs Celeste Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u245	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing this issue to plenary, which is indeed important. I'm not going to ask you any questions, I'm just going to weave two or three considerations, for which I asked for your comment. There are principles that, I think, all of us here defend: authority must be exercised in a fair, balanced and proportionate manner; deviations, from whoever they are, must be punished to the right extent, without paternalism. What can't be punished is the color of the skin. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, too often, the gypsies, the residents of Cova da Moura, of Amadora, in general, of Bela Vista, in Setúbal, and other Covas da Moura are reviewed, facing the wall, lying on the floor, whether young, women, children or old. Fear — this is the problem, this is the word that consists a complex reality. On the one hand, I believe that security officers cannot live in fear of entering the most disadvantaged neighborhoods, with fear of retaliation of populations, because they are stoned. And because they're stoned, react disproportionately. On the other hand, and above all, as Mrs Deputy said, and well, the young and children of the many Covas da Moura that exist in this country cannot grow in distress, in anger of being humiliated, in hatred of security forces and, by extension, all and any authority, for example, in school, to the teacher. They have the right to grow in peace, in security, they have the right to have the same opportunities in this land, which is also theirs; they know no other, and they have not had such opportunities to the right extent. Security forces know they can't fight drug trafficking, theft, etc. , stigmatizing some citizens, whether they are foreign or national. Security forces know that they have a noble mission: to defend all people and goods, whatever color, religion or culture. The country today is not homogeneous; there is diversity, and well. Diversity is a factor of wealth and is a component of freedom, so security forces and citizens need to lose fear of each other, they need to trust each other. Trust — that is the way we stand for. That's why I asked you for a comment, Your Honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u246	Mr Peixoto has the floor now to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u247	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I would like to begin by complimenting you on the relevant subject that brought you to plenary, but I would like to say that in politics, sometimes, or almost always, what it seems to be. His political statement, in order to defend citizens who say they are affected or attacked by police interventions, which is virtuous and understood, ends up leaving the idea—I do not know whether, really, that is what I meant or not—that there is an anathema about the PSP and that there are black clouds to be thrown over the police. Madam Member, none of us here in good sense, with a sense of balance, tolerates any kind of discrimination, xenophobia, racism or inequality. But we cannot accept dangerous generalisations like those which have been done, because what you have done in your political statement conveys the impression that police forces, in particular these, which are special police forces, in their actions, are constantly violating human rights. That's not right. It is, in fact, premature, Mrs Deputy, and very prompt to come here to discuss the issue of incidents that will have occurred on 5 February, because, as you well know, soon that day, the PSP opened an investigation to ascertain what had happened and then the Ministry of Internal Administration, through the IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration) also opened an investigation and then proceeded to conduct all the investigation. We do not yet know what the conclusions of this investigation are, we do not know what the results are, so we consider it dangerous to move forward with extemporaneous judgments, which must of course be avoided. Even because the Association of which it spoke, which is guided by criteria of cordiality and respect that no one doubts, submitted a complaint for identical facts in 2012 and 2013 which was filed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, saying that there was no indication that the police acted that way too badly and inadequately. That Division we are talking about, from Amadora, from 2012 to 2014, has reduced violent crime by 21% and has greatly increased the number of arrests in flagrant crime in that same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u248	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u249	I'm done now, Mr. President. Madam Member, do you or do you not agree that the police in Portugal are the stage of our freedom? Do you agree or not that they are the foundation of our collective security, which are a pillar of our rule of law, that they are the guarantor of our democracy and that they are also certain that it is worth living in Portugal? Overall, have the police or have they not acted properly and properly? I would like you to answer this question objectively, Mrs De Clercq. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u250	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u251	Mr President, Mr Carlos Peixoto, Mrs Celeste Correia, thank you for your questions. I begin by answering Mr Peixoto's question. Mr, I did not launch any kind of anathema on the PSP. I believe that the intervention I made here deserved attention which, of course, did not have. What the honourable Member has done was to give me a generalization that I have not done. Obviously, we have responded to the results of the investigations and investigations that have been opened. Obviously, we understand that security is a fundamental right and that security forces exist to guarantee this right and that they are a pillar of the democracy in which we live. It would have taken the view that, soon enough, we are not discussing with the majority the effective conditions that the security forces have for the performance of their functions — it is probably a discussion that we will be discussing soon. Mr President, I have mentioned specific cases, specific complaints, the situation of neighbourhoods on the outskirts of large cities. I gave objective examples and, perhaps, if Mr. Carlos Peixoto had the Rapid Intervention Corps in the Fifth Navy, he did not make the intervention or the question he asked in this context. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u252	He's throwing a lip on the police!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u253	Mrs Celeste Correia, I welcome, with respect, the work you have done at this level, for so long, in Parliament and outside it. So, as you can see, the honourable Member knows what you're talking about. We know that much of the problems that are behind these concrete situations are problems of segregation, are problems, as I said, of populations, of communities that do not have the same rights as others. That is the bottom line. For us, it is clear that we have to defend — and we will present legislative initiatives that go so far — recognizing the role of the security forces. I repeat what I said recently: this Association clearly says in its texts that the police have to do their job. however, police policies have to be thought in conjunction with the community itself, within the framework of trust, which was what Mrs Celeste Correia pointed out here as the fundamental value for this joint. What is clear — and this is the debate we are discussing here — is that, recognizing all these problems and recognizing, of course, the role of security forces in the defence of democracy and the problems in the face of the discrimination of these communities, there is a greater problem, and the honourable Member has said it well, which is: the color of the skin cannot be punished. We cannot continue to have incidents with a clearly racist profile and therefore we must know this reality and we must seriously evaluate it. We cannot continue to live in this country of soft customs, where nothing happens. in fact, there are many things happening in this country of soft customs, which is often Mr. Carlos Peixoto, the so-called "white" customs. That's what we're talking about. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u254	Mr António Filipe also entered for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u255	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, has brought to this House a matter of greatest importance. Madam Member, it is important to say that, just as we, in this House, often congratulate and exalt the work that is done by the security forces, which are in many risks — unfortunately, not long ago, we had to regret the death of two elements of the PSP in service; and we unanimously approved here a vote of regret — that does not mean that we are not rigorous when we appreciate the activity of the security forces in all its aspects. The complaints brought to us by leaders of the Moinho Youth Cultural Association regarding recent events in the Upper City of Cova da Moura cannot stop worrying and deserve our greatest attention. The Youth Moinho Cultural Association has developed a work of indisputable merit—in fact, it has been thanked by this Assembly, a few years ago, with the Human Rights Prize of the Assembly of the Republic — and the people of the Upper Cova da Moura deserve our full consideration. Therefore, when we have news of police acts with disproportionate violence, with a disproportionate and stigmatizing apparatus for that population, we need to make sure, strictly, that these operations are, as they trigger and that the authorities competent to carry out this monitoring, including the Inspectorate General of Internal Administration and, eventually, the Public Prosecutor, give greater attention to the monitoring of such activities in order to avoid abuses committed by the security forces and that have profound negative consequences on that population's relationship with the security forces. In fact, if there is no trust relationship with the local communities, if these communities do not trust the police, of course all the efforts made by the proximity police are absolutely committed, and there we enter into a vicious circle of divorce between the populations and the security forces, which must be avoided. Therefore, any action that is likely to be regarded as directed in a racist or xenophobic sense by security forces must be intransigently combated. I would therefore like to welcome your intervention and say that we expect from IGAI, in particular, thorough clarifications on the investigation that was requested after complaints of an unjustified police intervention in the High Court of the Moura Cave. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u256	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u257	Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for your question. It is true that we have been here a joint vote on the death of two young security forces officers for a very short time, and it is also true that, during multiple discussions, we have been on the same side concerned about the issues of the conditions for the exercise of our mission. Therefore, Mr President, in view of the seriousness of the matter before us, it is clear that we do not deal with generalizations that want to distort the fundamental issue. And right now, the fundamental requirements are exactly what you have put in place. First of all, a rigorous assessment of all these situations and complaints. Secondly, from our point of view, it is necessary for the country to know all these cases where there have been victims of racist police violence. Thirdly, in our view — that was the content of our political statement — there is a need to make adjustments in our legal framework in relation to racism. It is the fact that we are far from other legal frameworks, which are much harder with this crime than ours. Therefore, we present this availability and assume this debate with the seriousness it must have, because it is the defence of fundamental rights. But the evidence is that we cannot deal with police violence that has a racist and xenophobic pendant. It is not possible to deal with situations of this calibre when Portugal was recently elected to the place of responsibility it has. It is on this side that we have discussed and discussed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u258	Mrs. Members, after the period of political declarations, we move on to the second point of our agenda. This is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates in road infrastructure ( PS ), 796 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of road infrastructure where it is due to payment of toll rates ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 794 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the collection of tolls until they are eliminated in defence of the rights of users of motorways ( PCP ), 799 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of toll rates ( BE ), 800 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Withdraws jurisdiction to the finance service for the establishment and instruction of procedures for counter-ordination for non-payment of toll rates ( eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June 2006 approving the sanction scheme for infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates is due) ( BE) and 802 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents situations of abusive application of fines and other costs in cases of non-payment of tolls ( The Greens ). To present Bill No. 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party resubmits its proposal on the rate of tolls and with the merit already achieved to condition the majority to participate in the debate this time. Our proposal directly addresses the great problem of these processes, proposing the drastic resolution of fines, fines and procedural costs for reasonable and equitable values. We directly attack the problem, because what prevents many taxpayers from paying these counter-ordinations, which turn into tax enforcement processes, are precisely the exorbitant values of fines and fines. Therefore, our bill directly attacks this problem. This is a bill that presents a solution for the future; it does not deal with the problem temporarily, it does not only seek an exceptional regime, it seeks to find a solution to this problem. This is not the first time we have tabled this proposal. We did this at the time of the discussion of the State Budget for 2015, last October, and at that time the PSD and CDS voted against. Many taxpayers have thus lost the opportunity to access a more favourable regime, with fines, fines and more equitable procedural costs and within their family budgets. The DECO and the Portuguese Consumer Law Association have already expressed their sympathy with this draft law of the Socialist Party. Unfortunately, the government has kept silent on this matter. Since the first time we tabled this proposal last October, neither the Secretary of State for Transport nor the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs have spoken on this matter. They have not reported any statistics, no elements, no political opinions on this matter, which is highly regrettable, because it is a problem that affects thousands of taxpayers. last week, we discussed here the Socialist Party bill on penhoras on own and permanent dwellings. in this debate, in response to an accusation of opposition that the penhora processes proceed automatically, without the social analysis of each case, the PSD said at the time that it was pure and hard demagogy, that it was a social alarm on the part of the opposition. Well, still today, news about the situation of the social institution Heart of the City, of the city of Porto, which was victim of penhora, a ridiculous case, of social alarm, yes, in which the finances went there to worsen food that had been donated by supermarkets. This proves that the argument used by the PSD last week regarding the penhoras of permanent own dwellings is false. Finance does not have the capacity, do not have enough staff to analyze with social perspective each case and depart to a recovery situation. This government has dehumanized the Tax Authority and transformed it into the largest predator of families and businesses. The Socialist Party's bill has contributed to restoring social and fiscal justice in these processes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u260	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP bill points to a just and concrete solution to this desperate situation of tolls, which has affected thousands of people. The PSD, the CDS and the PS will certainly say that they think very well that there are tolls in the SCUTs, especially since they have imposed them on populations and businesses. They have changed the contracts with the concessionaires precisely for that. They speak in the user-payer principle, in the financing of the road network, and they always forget about hundreds of millions of euros, including those at home, in the dealers, for the collection of tolls — the costs with the collection that the dealers justify to keep hundreds of millions of euros, up to 20 % of the toll paid by the people. But as if it were not enough to cause the damage that these tolls represent to the people and to regional development, as if they had not enough to have chosen this portico system—which is cheap and gives millions, but which is also conducive to endless problems, these problems that infern the lives of people— above all decided this inflammation to place the Tax Authority as a tax collector at the service of the dealers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot continue with this scandal of having tax justice to pay salaries, retirement pensions, cars, food, meanwhile distributed by an IPSS of port to deprived families, in coercive collection processes for payment of tolls. This is Kafkiano, it's unacceptable! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the state is not and cannot be the coconsortia of the PPPs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u264	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u265	And the hell that is being caused to people's lives has to have a final point. This is the fundamental issue that, unfortunately, PS, PSD and CDS ignore. The CFP presents concrete solutions. Our bill is changing the toll collection regime in defense of highway users. We propose that this special status be terminated, that the concessionaires be placed above the general law and that they be responsible for the collection while there are tolls. We propose that there be a specific period of 30 days when people have the possibility of regularizing their situations and processes, paying the amounts owed, but not that burden of fines, costs, charges and interest of default, which have turned half a dozen euros into hundreds or thousands of euros. Problems are solved and this wickedness is brought to an end. Finally, we propose that you move forward to a process with a view to eliminating the tolls in the SCUT. The root of the problem is in the tolls that have been imposed, and of course in the PPPs, which continue to bleed the country with ruinous contracts for the state, for the taxpayers and for the populations. It is necessary to act now to solve the problems that are causing hell in people's lives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u266	For an intervention, Mrs Carina Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS present in this Parliament an amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June, which approves the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements due to the absence of payment of toll rates. This is an exceptional scheme for the regularization of debts resulting from the non-payment of toll rates in tax-implemented cases, while providing new rules for the future to make the process simpler, less bureaucratic and more efficient. We are going to meet many of the problems encountered in this complex introduction of tolls in the former SCUT, which affect companies, families and citizens. We then begin with the principle of the rules we want to set up: there is an extraordinary regularization of the fines applied on the tolls for the non-payment of proceedings in fiscal execution, a regularization of proceedings by voluntary payment of those who have tax executions, with payment of the outstanding fee for a period of 90 days, with interest forgiveness, reduction of accumulated fines and reduction of procedural costs, under detailed conditions as payment is ready, total or partial; the principle of the paying user is maintained, of which the PSD and the CDS do not abdicate and there is no benefit to the offender. For the future, what we have: even in the phase before the counter-coordination process, is increased to twice as long as the vehicle owner has to voluntarily pay the value of the toll rate, without the counter-coordination process being introduced. At a later stage, and duly notified, it is determined that only a single fine may be applied to infringements which have been committed by the same agent on the same day on the same vehicle and on the same road infrastructure. This is perhaps the most important change in this diploma for the future. The exorbitance of the values reached in some cases results from the infringements being introduced by summaries of ports per trip, and consequently there is a multiplication of processes for the same citizen per day, by vehicle and by infrastructure. It is not the ceiling in the fines that solve this; it is the measure proposed in this diploma with this consideration of processes to the same vehicle per day and by infrastructure. We believe that we are at the root of the problem and we intend to solve it. Finish the multiplier effect on the overwhelming majority of processes. And I am sorry to say that the Socialist Party's diploma does not achieve this detail or the elimination of this problem, the only thing that is just to do is put a ceiling on the fine. In addition, and also in the context of the process of counter-ordination, it is now expressly stated that the possibility of aggregation of several infringements into the same notification and, as well, in the same counter-ordering process, the removal of so many counter-ordination processes as to how many infringements were committed by the same agent and, consequently, the payment of costs for each of these cases. in these cases, one again benefits the defendant, who becomes obliged to pay only the costs of a single process that integrates all or several offences committed by him. There is no benefit to the offender, but there are guarantees to the defendants. There is still transparency in the procedures for implementing taxation, which can be consulted on the financial portal. An important note: the first notification is always from the dealership by registered letter and receipt notice as provided for in Article 14. the notifications shall be made by registered letter, with receipt notice, sent to the home or seat of the notifier. It does not exempt citizens from keeping their data up-to-date, either with regard to the tax address or vehicle property registration, as also requires public entities to cooperate in the guarantee of these rights. The state must be a good person. It does not affect the meeters, as those who pay in due course are not affected. The complexity of this system requires the responsibility of political parties with parliamentary seats to know the consequences of the proposed measures. The PSD and the CDS, in strict respect for the citizens, is what they do with the presentation of this diploma. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u268	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The processes we all know — the letters are known and are public; the e-mails flood the mailboxes of parliamentary groups — demonstrate the absurdity of both the action of the state and the tax machine. Many have even said that they have not had the chance of the Prime Minister, because he, having been without paying for social security for five years, has never seen any trouble knocking on his door and, indeed, in his case, the offender has even had the privilege. But the case of these real people, who see the tax machine knocking on their doors, scouring their houses, cars and wages—there is, even that case, already mentioned, an association that had crushed rice, bananas,... — shows as well as Kafkiano is all this process, as there are no words to describe it and how there are not even words to defend it. What most try to do with the proposals on the table is what will also try to do the CDS, after the PSD has done it, i.e. try to justify what is absolutely unjustifiable. First question: should these highways have tolls? The answer is no, they shouldn't have tolls. More: the introduction of tolls in the former SCUT injured the State because it forced renegotiations of contracts in which the State was damaged, but it seriously damaged families, businesses, the economy, because they pay when they pass there and also pay when they don't pass there, because they pay them with their taxes. And if there is a problem in the payment, if you forget to pay, even if it is for a few months and not for five years, you see the whole process going down and see the fines, the administrative fees, interest on laurels reaching values of hundreds or tens of thousands of euros, as several companies have denounced. What does most of us answer to this? We are told that, after all, this system must be in force, some corrections can be made. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no corrections to be made, the system is unfair, absolutely unfair and does not resist even simple questions. Who passes on a toll is easily able to make the payment of that toll? The answer is no, you don't! It cannot pass and go to pay immediately, it has to wait 24 hours and if it does not happen to be able to pay in the next five days it is already the « end of work », because beyond the toll it will have to pay the administrative fees. You cannot, at present, go to any shop to do so — challenge any of the Members or of the Members. Members to do so; I have already tried and it has not been possible. We knock at the door and say 'no, here it is not possible to pay that, you have to call on the phone' ; then you have to be lucky to get the process going by telephone or by e-mail. I must tell you it's impossible! And here I don't talk to the third person, I've tried it, and the problem is that it wasn't just me, hundreds of thousands of people already tried it and couldn't. But to insist on this process and to say that it is possible to correct some problems is not only foolish, it is 'to cover the sun with the sieve' and, indeed, to insult people, who see in this problem the absurdity of a tax machine at the service of the private — the choice of this majority — the absurdity of this tax machine to act with enormous force on people, even if debts are of cents. And I have to say that from hundreds to euros, from tens of euros and, when they turn into more than 150 euros, we have houses — houses! — to be spared. Most may say: «Well, we are worried, but not much». It is true that in the case of the Prime Minister, there were more than €4000 and he did not have any house, so in the examples of the majority, we see that there are no great reasons for concern. But what we say is that it is not acceptable for people to see their lives at risk and for companies to be unable to continue with their activity as a result of this reality. We therefore propose two simple measures. The first consists of an amnesty, which is the most sensible that can exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u270	A rubber!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u271	Now, it is to take forward what the Braga Court has decided, it is not, as Mrs Carina Oliveira said, to decide by the offender. What the Court says is that the person who broke the law was the State and therefore, in fact, it is about acquitting the State of this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u272	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u273	I conclude, Mr President, with our second proposal. In addition to amnesty, what we say is that the State cannot be the "collector of weakness" of the private, so the finances of this process must be separated, not to end this process, but to demand some decency. In conclusion, there is only one solution, which is the one we have been defending since the beginning: putting an end to the tolls in the ex-SCUT. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u274	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are also presenting today a bill on the subject we are discussing here, which is related to the ridicule of the tolls. But let's just start with the underlying problem: the introduction of tolls into SCUTs, making them, therefore, into ex-SCUTs. This was indeed a serious problem for the country, because in some regions it has contributed to the inability to dynamize a region through this route. Road safety has been promoted, particularly through the transfer of traffic to secondary roads; intensification of air quality has been promoted at the level of air pollution, due to car congestion; in fact, a whole series of associated problems have been promoted that I think it is important not to forget in this debate. Add to all this the problem of collection of tolls is exclusively electronic, through those porticos that give all these problems. However, we are faced with a problem brought about by the Socialist Party — Mrs Carina makes this sign — but with which the PSD and the CDS agree, maintaining it and extending it. It is therefore important that those responsible for this matter should not forget this, so that citizens also understand that here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we do not all have the same idea about the fundamental problem. We, The Greens, believe it would be important to tackle the underlying problem, namely to abolish these tolls. But the fact is that the Assembly of the Republic — all parliamentary groups, certainly — began to receive numerous complaints from citizens who, for one reason or another, did not pay these tolls. The reasons were the most diverse — the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, they also had the opportunity to read these complaints, and it was not because of the fact that the citizens are all evil-doers, of course! Isn't that true? Oh, my God! There were also cases of persons who had not been notified so little;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u276	Many, many!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u277	... there was a breakdown in the identification apparatus; even the case of persons who thought they had balance in their bank account and who did not have any. Therefore, there were numerous cases that led to many people for one reason or another not making such a payment. In any case, they are being intimidated to pay absolutely disproportionate amounts in relation to that small payment that they have not made. The fact is that they demand the value of the toll, more fine than the law says that at least it has to be €25, and more procedural costs that gallop around €100. So this is all added—and if the person has passed through several ports each of them results in autonomous fines, autonomous processes, additional autonomous costs—it is a burgeoning, at the end of history. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the Green Bill propose in view of this reality? First of all, we propose that the payment period be extended. The fifteen days stipulated by law are absolutely absurd. Secondly, in the case of a complaint by the citizen, we propose that the time limit be suspended — nor can we conceive otherwise. Thirdly, we propose that the payment of the value of this toll, at any time, after it has not been paid, and if the citizen wishes to pay it, it can be completely liquidated. There are no fines or additional costs here, because that doesn't make any sense at all! So what the Greens here are proposing is not the reduction of fines, it is their elimination! The citizen created a debt, paid the debt and finished, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And it is not worth inventing any more procedures to raise money for citizens in any form or other way, which are already completely exhausted with all possible and imaginary mechanisms to proceed with this way of drawing money for people. There is still another problem, already focused on by other Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem of tax administration. What the Greens want here to say, perennially, is that the tax administration does not work for the concessionaires. It is not conceivable that the Assembly of the Republic can accept such a situation. What we have seen is that the tax administration is promoting absurd penhoras — as has already been mentioned here, even foods of social solidarity go away, see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — and then, as the thing falls so ridiculous, but so ridiculous, they cancel the pen. This is playing with taxpayers' money. Tax administration workers cannot play, they must work for the good of the country, not to despise or slaughter people, but to help the people live in society and in conformity. That is why the State also serves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u278	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to make an intervention which, I hope, is the most consensual and clear. The SCUTs have never been cost-free for the user—in the past, in the present or in the future. The road and road system, our transport system costs money. Therefore, we reaffirm the user-payer principle. This clearly separates us from the leftmost parties and separates us a little from the Socialist Party. But I would like to find some consensus here. The compulsive user, who uses any road infrastructure and pays his toll, has no problem. These changes we proposed do not affect you at all, because you use the service and pay your toll. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I will go further and give my example: in Viseu, I have ex-SCUT all around and my car device, as new, has a sound signal. Every time I get that sound signal, it means that I've already fulfilled my obligation, I've paid. But if there is a citizen who receives the same sound signal and does not pay, it means that he has become indebted to the service. Therefore, if you liquidate this service you have no problem. [[PCP protests.]] But let's go to the specific case and to the problem that this majority has identified, that all parties have identified and that some examples have been given here, it is true. In the face of the problem, this majority and this government have done what they have always done: they have solved it in a simple, objective way and without including greater bureaucracy in the system. And that is why we are placed in simplicity, justice and clarity of the solution. What does that mean? It means that if a citizen, for a fault or for any reason, even those whom Mr. Heloísa Apollonia here has pointed out, he does not pay his toll, what happens to have? From then on, it has twice as much time to be notified—to identify the vehicle owner, so that he can liquidate his obligation (I am sure that all citizens want to settle ). After doing so, nothing else happens strictly. The problem is solved in a simple, objective, clear and efficient way. But if, for any reason, I can't do it, what do we propose? We propose that a set of procedures and procedures may be added to a single infringement, i.e. that there should be only one notification, a single procedure so that it can settle its obligation at one time. But, moreover, we all know that the difficulty introduced is the unusual number of ports, because it was necessary to put porticos on roads that were not prepared to have tolls. Today, any citizen on a journey would have 10, 12, 15 infringements. For now we now have only one infringement per day, i.e. we solve the problem at its origin: instead of 12, 20 or 30 infringements only have one, and can add them only in a process. We therefore clearly, practically, simply and easily reduce all constraints, all the difficulties that you are experiencing. Members here have identified, well, only at a time, an obligation and a payment. It seems to me that this is the most reasonable, sensible and clear way of solving the problem. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u280	The Bureau also noted Mr Manuel Mota's appointment for an intervention. I think you're aware that you have only 44 seconds?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u281	I am aware that I have only 44 seconds and will be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u282	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u283	Mr President, I will, in fact, be very brief, taking advantage of Mr Hélder Amaral's words, to tell you that, dramatically, your party's bill does not solve the central problems that are put in place. It is not with palliatives that a dramatic situation is resolved for many of our citizens, both private and business alike. What's the matter here? In many cases, citizens who want to comply, who pass through three, four and five ports and have a toll rate of €10 or €12, but who, in the end, have to pay a fine of €1300 or €1400. The CDS and PSD in 2011 and 2012 had the opportunity to make changes, but did not adopt them, so we must try to find here the fundamental solution and solve the problem. And the problem is solved with what the Socialist Party's proposal is. Our expectation is that, within committee, we can go to the core of the issues that are raised here, because the system has some inefficiencies and can be improved. Even the collection system and the rates that are applied are absolutely exorbitant, unacceptable and in many cases cause huge social dramas. There are hundreds, thousands of our citizens — and even some of us present here — who have gone through absolutely unacceptable situations — and they are not non-compliant, I repeat, they are not non-compliant! — only because of the failure of the system. This is the central issue. And if we look at the central issue, we can solve the fundamental issues, without leading to what is systematically the discredit of the institutions. Mr Correia said here that we have already questioned the Minister for Economic Affairs, and we have already questioned this matter in the budget of the State, where we have indeed put forward a proposal which most of us have simply ignored. So we can no longer ignore this situation, which, as we have seen, is coming to the summit, to the drama of institutions of social solidarity to see the damaged goods, because the system, as it is formulated, is purely and simply, as the president of the institution in which I also volunteer, does not create conditions for them to be able to comply, which is the central issue that we intend to resolve with our bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u284	Mr Bruno Dias also spoke for one minute and 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to recommend the rereading of Article 80. point ( a) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which establishes that the first principle of the economic and social organization is the subordination of economic power to democratic political power. I invite you guys. Members will reflect on this, when we have today the tax justice, the administration or the Tax Authority, finally, the power of the state, the cash tap of the dealers, which can even archive and end a process of compulsory collection if, from the dealer's headquarters, they say: "After all, we have deceived ourselves, you are right! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And it is the cascade of dealers, economic groups, in relation to ruinous PPP contracts for the state and the people, who continue to put thousands of government officials — workers who have more to do, literally, have even more to do — to infer the lives of the people you speak of as "infringements". Please don't talk about benefiting the offender, as if people were criminals who were stealing the country. There are those who are stealing the country and the Portuguese, yes, but not these citizens who have their lives in hell, are the interests of the economic groups that add profits to the millions with the poverty of others. We note that you now recognize all those problems which we warned would happen when you, under the Tax Procedure Code, created a system for the collection problems that neither workers nor small businesses have at their disposal. Does a worker who has late wages or a small trader who has a debt to suffocate his economic and financial condition have the tax to go after people who owe him money? Oh, my God! You put the State at the service of the economic power, contrary to Article 80. that of the Constitution, and this is what needs to be done once and for all, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u286	This is the proposal of the CFP, and it is obvious that you will vote against it, because it is your reason to continue to benefit and to serve objectively the interests of the great capital. That is why we continue to fight this government and that is why this government will be defeated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u287	Mr Hélder Amaral, who is also aware of the fact that he has 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u288	Mr President, I will be very brief, just to record that there is a path here that can be made by the parties of responsibility with the Socialist Party, as Mr Manuel Mota said. In fact, we know that there are failures in the system and that these failures cause very complex processes for the lives of citizens. But that is precisely why we extend the notification period, that is why we want to add the proceedings and that is precisely why, in the current proceedings, we introduce the possibility of the citizen who wants to be able to pay part or all of the fine and avoid, with that, interest of late and everything else. In other words, there is a possibility here, without demagogy and without offending the honor and dignity of anyone, neither of the fulfilling citizen, nor of others who, by any failure of the system, by any unhappiness, cannot fulfil their obligation to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the system. I believe that the word of order must be'simplified' and 'facilitated', so that the citizen can at any time comply. If the citizen has the right to pay on time for his or her use of the service, it is all right; if he or she is not entitled to notification in time and time, he or she has the right to pay in time and in time and is entitled to pay the fair price, with the fair procedural costs for the infringement, which may be confirmed, without withdrawing any right, and in the face of the need to finance and pay this service, which is a public service and is a very good service. It is not here to finance the concessionaires, this revenue is also the revenue of the State, of the Estradas de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u289	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u290	Sometimes there is some opposition that doesn't realize, that you don't want to understand, because you have other interests, not the defense of the public interest. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u291	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 796 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 794 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), 799 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 800 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE) and 802 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ). We now turn to draft resolution No 1267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the clearance of the final beneficiaries of the financial transactions which have read the BES and the Portuguese State ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has done everything through the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ( CPI ) to obtain data on deviations and operations that have read and destroyed the Banco Espírito Santo. The Committee of Inquiry, by its very nature, does not, however, have that capacity, and sometimes does not have the necessary means of research. But if there is a conclusion that this Commission can already draw is this: we need to know where the money was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u293	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u294	The collapse of BES and GES, therefore, of one of the largest economic and financial groups in the country, showed that the so-called "banking supervision" does not pass from a farce, mounted with great ardile, to hide what is, in fact, a trap. They tell us we can trust banks, because banks are supervised. And they tell us more: that everything is fine with this or that bank, as happened with the BES. The troika said that everything was fine, the Banco de Portugal said that the Bank was robust, the Prime Minister, the Minister of State and Finance and even the President of the Republic said that the Banco Espírito Santo was duly capitalized, solid and reliable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u295	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u296	These statements, however, reveal nothing more than an intrusion, as if the institutions supposedly of trust invited us, stating that it is safe to place money in private banks. However, the doors of the safes of these banks are rocked and thousands of depositors do not have their money secure. BES has been the target of a robbery over decades, having entered a frenetic phase in its last months, using bank accounts or vehicles in tax havens and a myriad of companies and operations used in circular financing schemes, for counterfeiting profits or hiding liabilities. And we will continue to be exposed to such assaults, as long as the bank is under the control of private groups that control themselves, as long as it is possible to establish commercial and professional relations with the so-called offshore, which function as a leash to clear the money trail, while the so-called "mixed conglomerates" exist and while the high tables circulate between internal auditors, external auditors, consultants, banks and supervisors. in this specific case of BES and GES, the Republic should be fully prepared to be compensated for the damage caused by the criminal activity of monopolistic groups and identify each individual or entity that has over the years benefited from the real assault on BES. Regardless of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, which still runs, no one can, in conscience, oppose the proposal of the CFP : to create a technical entity to ensure, up to the last euro, who has actually lived above its possibilities, who has received the gains of the pillage. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u297	Mr José Magalhães now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution today under discussion confronts us with two things: a fairly obvious evil, recognized by all, in accordance with which Mr Miguel Tiago has now synthesized, or in others, perhaps more benevolent, is the case of the majority; and an idea, a suggestion, a motion for a resolution or a remedy. The question is whether, for this enormous evil, the remedy is enough and what recommendation should be made here. I am left on the issue of evil, because evil is in fact being and will be what is typical of banking and financial disasters, which, above all, have had and will have a very strong impact on the economy. This case has greatly shaken the confidence of citizens in institutions, and not only in bankers, and desperate are, every day, those who have made the mistake of trusting those who do not deserve any trust. And I must say that it is very impressive, especially those who have followed the work of the Committee of Inquiry, to see such a succession of conjugated failures over time. Failure, of course, of decision makers and managers, even those awarded with awards of excellence, practising, in certain cases, harmful acts of ruinous management of institutions that should manage well and whose customers should protect. Secondly, failure of internal control bodies: tax advice, audit units, compliance units, etc. Third, failure of audit firms. Yesterday, for example, we learned that the PwC, which did indeed make a very interesting report on the ruinous applications of PT, did not hear, it seems, one of the interested and one of the protagonists, who deposited yesterday, and did not take into account the transactions of the market rooms that today are recorded, but are not on paper, so they have to be consulted by the environment itself. Strange, but it is something that adds to the omissions of another auditor about the values of BES Angola and its debtors of estimation and other monumental sequences and examples of inconsistencies. Bank of Portugal also failed, for obvious reasons, and tactical government inertia. Note: the troika itself, paying attention to each reform cut, closed its eyes to the non-application of reforms that had been agreed on in relation to the banking system, in 2011, in the famous and then often altered, Memorandum. Therefore, these failures reveal that there are very serious structural problems and those who have followed the investigation know how far they go. The Banco de Portugal does not, for example, have structures that allow it to conduct the forensic audit that Deloitte has now completed, and that will be essential for the courts to act. And we know what the creditors expect, what awaits the victims of the collapse — many years of litigation in the courts — and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is the hard task of discovering the criminals, punishing all those responsible, and of doing justice in this case as well. Would it help to have a committee, a technical unit whose powers the draft resolution does not define? for our part, we will not throw a stone to whom we want to build a positive solution and we believe that we should reflect, in committee, on ways to strengthen the capacity of the Banco de Portugal, which clearly does not have it in both methods and structures, since, whenever you need an in-depth examination to enable you to exercise your powers, you hire a consultant, whose work is, in fact, secret, why I will have to shut up, Mr President. Otherwise, I would have to describe the results of the audit or the audit summary that were presented yesterday and which confirms this very: more means must be given to those who have the responsibility, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, and it is necessary for the Banco de Portugal to have structures in line with its missions. He was disrespected 21 times in six months by the supreme officials of Banco Espírito Santo in relation to his specific and direct orders in audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u299	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u300	Mr. President, it's unimaginable. We need solutions. for our part, we will not make any useful contribution impossible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u301	I do not want to cut you off, but it was the honourable Member who said you had to shut up. [[Laughing.]] Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear to all of us that the Portuguese Communist Party intends, in some way, to advance its conclusions with regard to a parliamentary committee of inquiry which is still under way and which will have its end and its own conclusions. But even if we admit — and we give it cheap — that the Portuguese Communist Party has the right to advance its conclusions on that Committee of Inquiry, the same right, however, no longer assists it when it intends to advance the conclusions of the other political forces that form part of the Assembly of the Republic, as it does in addition to the text of the draft resolution. in this part, I must say that you cannot count on the timing of the PSD. However, if, on the one hand, the Portuguese Communist Party intends to advance the conclusions of a parliamentary committee which is in progress and which will have its term, curiously, at the same time, intends to extend, extend, naturally, the Commission of Inquiry, with another garment, with another structure and with strengthened powers. How? Quite simply by creating, in accordance with the draft resolution under consideration, a technical unit, to be set up with the Resolution Fund, composed of specialists in fiscal and financial law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u303	Who shouldn't fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u304	And for what purpose does the Portuguese Communist Party intend to create this technical unit? Clearly for investigation purposes. If this is the case, and we sincerely have no doubt about what we are now saying, what the Portuguese Communist Party wants is to create a unit that will overlap or, at least, compete with other research bodies, in particular the Public Prosecutor's Office, or supervisory authorities, in particular the Banco de Portugal. It turns out, however, that the Portuguese Communist Party intends to create, not least, a parallel unit that will force the allocation of human resources, which will necessarily consume financial resources from the public record, in order to pursue purposes that are already pursued by other entities. And if they are already pursued by other entities, this unit represents nothing more than a disregard by these same entities. Which ones? The Public Prosecutor's Office, Banco de Portugal, among others. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this proposal is illogical, it is irrational and - forgive me the expression - even foolish. That is why it is not with this proposal that we will achieve what we all want, which is justice. in these circumstances, you cannot count on the membership of the Social Democratic Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u305	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I use the floor to say something brief and, I believe, logical. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a non-surprising manner, we fully agree with the title of the draft resolution. We therefore point out that, on several occasions, we have asked several questions to the most diverse stakeholders, in order to ensure that the final beneficiaries of the financial transactions that have been read by the BES and the Portuguese State. I would like to highlight this: the CDS wants the comprehensive clearance of everything that has happened in the BES Group, the knowledge of all the facts that have involved the failure of the GES and of all those responsible for this situation. However, if we communicate with the title, we have already completely deviated from the form and content of the debate in question. First of all, the shape. The CFP, which reminds us to be the author of the proposal to set up the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, with this initiative, seems to want to forget that the Commission is still in operation, in fact, meeting as we discuss it, and on the other hand to devalue the serious and exhaustive work that has been done and that continues to be done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u307	This leads me to the content criticism. First, conclusions on the system and on the case, which we could hardly follow up on what they say, are ahead of the time they do. Yesterday, we received the conclusions from a part of the forensic audit commissioned by the Banco de Portugal to Deloitte, and, as far as we know, we will receive more. Second, there are true considerations, true judgments of value, in relation to the work that is being made absolutely false. Those who have followed the work of the ICC — and we know that many Portuguese have done so — know that it is false what the PCP bill text says when it says that PSD, CDS and also PS have « contributed to creating the illusion that we are facing a case that is summed up in the mismanagement of a private group and a financial branch that constitutes it ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u308	You just said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u309	Again, those who have followed the Commission's work and the hearings that have been held—and now I speak through the CDS—know that everything has been done for the discovery of the whole situation of the Holy Spirit Group and its leaders, as well as, and it is worth noting, to clear up all the situations related to the sale of commercial paper to retail customers that it is possible to find a solution for those who were deceived or poorly instructed about the product they were acquiring. Finally, I leave a final critical note. With the creation of the technical unit, they propose a true overlap, such as, in fact, it has already been said, or replacing the work of justice with parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u310	No, no! She's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u311	the terms in which they propose it. Mr. João Oliveira, in a state of democratic law there is a basic principle—that you so much like to invoke in other circumstances—that I see - I am obliged to recall: the principle of the separation of powers is called. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u312	In particular, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to the supervision of supervision, as has already been said here, to justice, to justice and to Parliament, what is Parliament's.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u313	This isn't criminal in nature!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u314	Not even that way, we could hardly follow up on this draft resolution. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u315	You're wrong, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u316	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u317	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We follow the proposal here. We believe that it is legitimate to have more information on this process and we believe that the State and society should have the means — and if they do not have them — to technically follow this case, as others we have in the past or may have in the future, with the care that, as has already been mentioned, separate functions. One thing is the judiciary and an investigation, which is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office ; another is an investigation carried out in a committee of inquiry. But this does not invalidate the State's ability to have technical institutions in order to deepen and democratise information on these cases. It is not bad for the world if the State has more information and technical capacity. We already realize that we cannot be dependent on the memory of the actors in these processes, which is quite low and which often fails, and we also realize that neither the State nor the Banco de Portugal can be dependent on external private auditors when a technical analysis is needed. We do not understand how the four auditors win — now it is necessary to say — hundreds of thousands of euros of taxpayers to carry out technical analyses that the state itself and its machine should have competence to do. If the State does not have these technical skills within itself, then there is something wrong with the way the State contracts technical and prepares to deal with the increasingly complex financial system. But this is not enough, it is not enough to run behind the damage; it is necessary to avoid injury before it happens. We need to stop having a state that amnesty whoever runs the tax. We have to stop tax losses to those who are money-laundering and deliberately put money in offshore so that afterwards they cannot be discovered their trail and we have to find commissions to go after the money. We always forget to say that it would be very easy to discover your whereabouts as long as there were no tax losses, offshore bills, provided there was no tax structure benefiting holding cascades — all this reflection has to be done. There needs to be a reflection on the role of the supervisor. We can't have a supervisor who deals with the supervisor. It is necessary to have laws and rules that control the bank and place the bank at the service of the economy, which is its function. That is why we spend many million euros saving it every time it sinks with bad practices! Whatever it is, either through this proposal, it is to give the State more to study these questions, to be more prepared to deal with these issues and with this highly complex finance—and today we already realize that it is not prepared to deal with it, nor the regulator as much as the state machine! — whether it is because of the interventions that we have to make in the legislative field in order to avoid new crises, new cases like this one, we know that it cannot be all the same after the collapse of BES. This project is another step in this situation, and so we support it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u318	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Teresa Anjinho does not accept that the PCP accuses the PSD and the CDS of being trying to focus and personify the problems that have occurred in BES. He said here at the same time that he does not accept that it is recognised that this is a problem that is related to the structure of the system. In other words, it does not accept that it is an isolated case, but also does not accept that it is a systemic issue and the nature of the capitalist system itself. You have to choose, Mrs. Deputy. You cannot try to say that it is an isolated case to say that it is not systemic and then say that you do not accept that you criticize this opinion when it is not available to take it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u320	I do not anticipate the conclusion, unlike the CFP, that it proposes an inquiry committee and does not let it finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u321	from the CFP side — in fact, all the parties referred to it — we could no longer agree with the need to strengthen both human and technical means and legislation of the Banco de Portugal. however, the question with which we are faced is the intervention which has to be as agile as possible and which must provide the Republic and the organs of the Republic with sufficient and necessary information to be rescinded from the money which, in particular, was called to put to cover the holes caused by deviations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u323	And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a criminal investigation, it is not a criminal case either. on the part of the CFP, we have no problem in reversing ourselves in the statement of « justice, justice, Parliament, Parliament ». But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State must call upon it to know where the money was, without prejudice to leaving to justice the punishment, or not, of those who have practiced the acts that have been identified in the meantime. That is why we need to know where the money was, Mrs Teresa Anjinho! We have already seen that we are all very friends, all very united in a committee of inquiry, but, after all, when it is time to draw the conclusions and want to know where the money was, there are already unjustifiable scissors. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u324	Don't be unfair!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the advance of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, the CFP has already drawn some conclusions - it is true, of course! And we're not asking the PSD and CDS-PP to take them too. We know that they will not draw conclusions equal to those of the CFP ; certainly, and still well, because that also distinguishes us, nor do we want to anticipate them, Mr President. Members, for the simple fact that a committee of inquiry is not criminal and will not do an investigation, nor does it have the means or capacity to investigate to the extent of detecting who the final beneficiaries of these transactions were. It is therefore necessary to create an answer to find out again the answer to the question: “Where did the money go? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u326	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u327	Finally, Mr President, in response to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would say that it is clear that measures must be taken in the field of prevention in order not to allow these problems to occur. They have already told us that it would not happen again after BPN, after BPP, after BCP, after Banif, after all those cases where State intervention was already necessary, and here the third largest Portuguese private bank bursts precisely in the hands of taxpayers. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, also for that reason, tomorrow, the CFP presents in this House a draft resolution and a draft law to prevent trade and professional transactions with offshore, in order to end the use of these files to escape the responsibilities with money laundering, with diversion and tax fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-05.u328	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our agenda today. The next meeting will take place tomorrow, for 10 hours, with the following agenda: joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 765 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ), 766 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE), 782/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( 35. the amendment to the Penal Code approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March 4. the amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and 6. the amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( PCP ), 803 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ), 798 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Illicit enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 801 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the control regime for unwarranted or undeclared property increases of the holders of political and comparable positions ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( CFP ). at the end of the debate, there will still be a regular vote. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 41 minutes.]]
