ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u1	Mrs. Members, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, the Secretary of State for Finance — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. I shall give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to do his best to read the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1481 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Bulgaria and Romania ( President of the HR ), 1482/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — by abolishing tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1483 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the exercise of the profession of Criminologist ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1484 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guiding principles for the revision of the European Neighbourhood Policy ( Committee on European Affairs ). They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 925 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Guidos, in the municipality of Trofa, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 926 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Alvarelhos, in the municipality of Trofa, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 927 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the value added tax code, clarifying the concept of medical and health services ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 928 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of S. Nicolau, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 929 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Lordelo do Oro, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 930 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Cedofeita, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 931 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo Ildefonso, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 932 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Victoria in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 933 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Nevogilde, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 934 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Aldoar, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 935 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No. 30 / 84 of 5 September, as amended by Laws Nos 4 / 95 of 21 February, 15 / 96 of 30 April, and 75 -A / 97 of 22 July, and by Organic Laws No. 4 / 2004 of 6 November and 4 / 2014 of 13 August, with the Declaration of Corrigendum No. 44 -A / 2014 of 10 October ( Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic — SIRP ) ( PSD / CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 936 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Miragaia, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 937 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Sé, in the municipality of Porto, district of Porto, which falls to 11. the Commission, 938 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Safara, in the municipality of Moura, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 939 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of St. Alex of Restoration in the municipality of Moura, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 940 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo Amador, in the municipality of Moura, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 941 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Coina, in the district of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 942 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santo André, in the district of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 943 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Lavradio, in the district of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 944 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Alto do Seixalinho, in the district of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 945 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São João Baptista, in the municipality of Moura, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u3	Let us start the debate. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The first item on the agenda is the general discussion of Bill No 326 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity as well as the procedural regimes applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive 2009 / 138 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through this bill, it is intended to transpose the Solvency II Directive with a review of the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activities and the scheme governing pension funds and their management entities. This new regime has been submitted to the Members. Members are based on two essential vectors: on the one hand, on the requirement of prudential requirements, allowing the development of a more robust liquidity reserve framework and on the other hand on the requirement of qualitative requirements that ensure sound and prudent management of insurers. This legislative initiative reinforces the regulation of duties for market operators with a direct impact on the protection of insurers, insured persons and beneficiaries. The aim is also to constitute a single set of European rules, avoiding regulatory arbitration with all insurance companies subject to the same rules within the Union. in this measure, standardisation of regulations in the European Union contributes to a more resilient, competitive and efficient insurance sector, raising benchmarks. Therefore, the review of the legal regime for access to the exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity reflects two important measures in the prudential aspect: own funds and the establishment of two capital requirements. With regard to own funds, companies are now holding a higher level of funds, allowing for the absorption of non-expectable shocks in their activities. Two capital requirements are also required: the solvency capital requirement and the minimum capital requirement. The solvency capital requirement ensures the coverage of specific insurance risks, market, credit and operational risks. On the other hand, the minimum capital requirement allows a level of eligible basic own funds below which it is considered that the protection of insurance creditors is clearly insufficient. thus, a standardized evaluation is obtained and it is ensured that a robust approach is adopted at European level to assess the relevant risks. This initiative also strengthens regulation on quality requirements by aligning the rules of the insurance sector and pension funds with the rest of the financial sector as regards the implementation of governance, risk management and internal control systems. With regard to governance systems, the rules are aligned with the regime for credit institutions and with the best European practices and guidelines, through new more demanding rules for the qualification and suitability of administrators and the supervisory body, contributing to prudent management of insurers. Still in this field, and respecting the structure and business strategy and the level of risk that insurance companies can take, this initiative requires the adoption of remuneration policies and practices not only to the Administration, but also to the top frameworks. In addition, the legislative amendment which is intended to be authorised by this House determines a more demanding sanctioning regime, promoting the smoothing and strengthening of counter-ordination processes in the insurance sector and pension funds, also in line with recent legislative amendments in the financial sector. in this context, this sector plays a very important role in the economy, since the assets managed by the sector companies represent almost 40 % of gross domestic product. However, the entry into force of the Solvency II scheme in 2016 promotes a profound change and a structural change in the regulation and supervision paradigm of the insurance sector, also reinforcing a harmonised set of financial regulation measures. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u5	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I believe that the bill under discussion was well presented by the Secretary of State. We are talking about the transposition of a directive concerning the provision of the Solvency II scheme under the regime governing the insurance and reinsurance activity, above all, with regard to the matter of the government of these companies, with regard to the requirements — which were well presented — quantitative and qualitative for the exercise of this activity, with regard to the obligation of these entities to report not only to the supervisor but also publicly a series of information and, as the Secretary of State has just said, with regard to the sanctions regime, in particular the empowerment of the penal and counter-order national regime which applies to the activity of the management of pension funds, which, as we know, is an activity on which the end of life of many of our fellow citizens depends. Therefore, conditions are being created for this activity to be exercised with maximum transparency but also with as much accountability as possible agents. It is a value in itself, regardless of the importance and need to transpose the directive in question. On the other hand, with regard to supervision, I would like to explain that it is assumed here, and I believe that it has an essentially preventive role to assess the technical provisions of the own funds and capital of these entities and to control and manage the risk and corporate governance of insurance undertakings, as well as to ensure the proper functioning and positive conduct on the market. Mrs. Members of the Government, I do not know whether there will be a willingness on the part of the opposition to introduce many amendments to this diploma, the majority will of course be open to this by setting out these fundamental pillars: to ensure that these societies are, on the one hand, transparent, well-managed and with sound principles as regards capital requirements and the requirements of their own funds and, on the other hand, that they meet in absolute certainty and in absolute correctness what is set out in European law. If the debate so requires, we can talk about this again later. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u7	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This legislative initiative, by the Government's authorship, transposes into the internal legal order a European Union directive on access to and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activities. The intentions announced by the Government in the explanatory statement could, in the first analysis, seem generous. However, this proposal for a law must be seen in the broader framework of the process of concentration and centralisation of the financial system at European level, implying the loss by the Member States of control, regulation and intervention power over national institutions. Although the so-called 'independent' mechanisms of control, supervision and supervision are being announced, it is in fact intended to subordinate the decisions of the European Union and its Member States to the interests of the financial system, a process which results in an unacceptable loss of sovereignty, limiting the possibility of placing the banking and insurance sectors in the service of the economic and social development of our country. in general, with the transposition of the Solvency II Directive, the set of rules and rules for the regulation, self-regulation and supervision of credit institutions is sought to apply in the insurance sector, trying to create and maintain the illusion that financial system problems can be resolved with more appropriate regulation and supervision. But this illusion is completely denied by reality. If there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to look at the succession of scandals in the national financial system, including the recent case of BES / GES.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u10	The implementation of risk management systems, internal control and internal audit and the eligibility requirements of administrators and members of the supervisory bodies do not ensure good management and public interest. It is an illusion, a dangerous illusion, to believe that it is possible to independently supervise the capitalist interests that control the financial system. This adds to the serious doubts about the Government's option to create a set of criminal procedural standards of difficult articulation and conjugation with the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We emphasize only the forecasting of conditions and the possibility of being carried out by the supervisor in the context of counter-ordination processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: 40 years ago, in March 1975, banking and insurance were nationalised. in the following years, and since then successive right-wing policy governments have handed over the insurance sector to financial, national and foreign capital. This process, including the recent alienation of the Safe Box Group, responsible for 30 % of the national insurance activity, which deprived the State of intervention capacity in a sector of the greatest importance for the country and translated into the degradation of workers' rights, is deeply contrary to the national interest. The urgent need to ensure effective regulation, supervision and supervision of the financial system, to channel savings and financial resources for investment in the productive apparatus, to defend national sovereignty and to boost economic and social development requires banking and insurance sectors to be placed under public control. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u13	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The initiative we are discussing today, as has already been said, is the transposition of a Community directive on access to and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activities. Solvency II is perhaps the biggest change in the insurance sector over the past two decades and the aim of which is essentially to strengthen the financial strength of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the stability and competitiveness of the insurance sector and the proper functioning of the internal market, with the protection of insurance users, insured persons and beneficiaries as a corollary. From 2016 onwards, insurance companies will have a much more demanding set of challenges than before, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The demanding criteria in the solvency ratios, the requirements, added, transparency and greater power of the supervisory authority bring greater security to the insurance provider, but they also require the sector to strengthen itself and bring extended confidence on insurance companies, which only benefits the market and the consumer. contrary to what has already been said by the Portuguese Communist Party, this is the time when someone makes the financial sector stabilize so that no crises like those that happened before and protect insurers and insurance takers. We are stunned because, when someone has a measure that protects those who make insurance, those who are often at risk, the Portuguese Communist Party again thinks that it is all a capital sin, a sin of Europe and against national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u15	Exactly! Against national sovereignty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u16	It is to be noted that this inconsistency continues to exist in the cassette of the last 30 years of the Portuguese Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u17	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u18	Solvency II is based on three fundamental pillars. The first, on quantitative requirements, provides for an economic assessment of assets and liabilities and two capital requirements are established — the solvency capital requirement and the minimum capital requirement, which will guarantee financial stability to insurance companies, which so far did not exist, and will, above all, ensure that those who make their insurance may have the assurance that there will not be a crisis that will put them at risk. The second pillar relates to the qualitative model, which includes a new model of governance, risk management and internal control. Now, these points which, once again, the Communist Party criticized, are a way to ensure that there is more confidence in the market and that people are safe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u19	Illusion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u20	... but once again, the Communist Party considers it to be all a capital sin. However, in this second pillar, there is also an increase in the power of the supervisory authority, which has an essentially preventive character, which covers the assessment of quantitative requirements, qualitative requirements and procedures for the provision of information for insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The third pillar is intended for transparency and reporting requirements for supervisory bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u21	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u22	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mrs. Members, almost six months from this huge change, there is doubt whether all insurance companies are in a position to comply with the new regulatory requirements. But we are also certain, six months into force of this diploma: that, from 2016 onwards, we will have a more solid insurance sector, capable of facing greater challenges, with a degree of financial stability that has never had before and will ensure that consumers, insurance users, will be protected and better served, ensuring a high degree of confidence in these companies to the market. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u23	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u24	Madam President, Secretary of State for Finance, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are dealing with the transposition into the internal legal order of a directive known as Solvency II which aims at several purposes which we generally subscribe to. The fundamental objective of reducing the potential for loss in consumers, strengthening the protection of insurance users and strengthening the balance of the financial system are laudable purposes which the Directive aims to achieve and which we subscribe, as we recognize the important role of insurers in the balance of the financial system, obviously not as decisive as that of the financial institutions themselves, but nevertheless of relevance. We also subscribe to the pillars of the reform, which Mr Secretary of State had the opportunity to describe, moreover, the quantitative requirements, i.e. the new assessment of assets and liabilities and, therefore, the establishment, also by this way, of solvency capital and, therefore, the reduction of risks and the capacity to absorb losses, and the minimum capital, that is, the level below which the institution cannot survive; the qualitative requirements, the importance of new systems of governance and risk management; the requirements for the assessment of suitability, which, of course, I am sorry to mention why we all have the need to strengthen that nature, and the strengthening of the powers of the supervisory authority. As regards the empowerment of the criminal justice system and a criminal system itself, if the idea itself does not repulse us, we mean, without any margin for misconceptions, that the realisation proposed by the Government takes on unsustainable contours that compromise our adherence to the proposal. Therefore, the Secretary of State will have time to open up to amend the proposal. This is because we cannot deal with the procedurally unbalanced way in which rights, freedoms and guarantees are postponed. I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that the Government's proposal can be qualified as a legal « pharisaism», especially when it is envisaged — and well! (i) the need for the intervention of a law judge to obtain the registration of telephone contacts and the transmission of data, but, as far as the law is concerned, the provision that if that law judge, whose intervention is necessary, is not acting within 48 hours, is as if he had pronounced it. That is, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government has discovered a new legal aphorism in the matter of the derogation of professional secrets, which is provided for in the law, in the matter of personal data. It would be ridiculous if it wasn't absurd! This clearly violates the law, violates the opinions of the Advisory Council of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, violates the basic principles of a rule of law and, as has been mentioned recently, if this occurs for criminal proceedings, it also occurs for counter-ordinary proceedings. In fact, the disproportionateness is manifest, Mr Secretary of State. in the same way, this law proposes the derogation from the constitutional principle of reformatio in pejus, i.e. the worsening of the legal situation of a defendant in the face of an appeal brought by itself. However, the Government seems to treat this matter as legal when it is constitutional matter, i.e. it is not possible that the principle of the completeness of the guarantees of defence, contradiction and the right of appeal are purely and simply postponed, so also Article 28. paragraph 5 shall be deleted in order to obtain the constitutional conformity of the proposal. In summary and conclusion, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our desire to adhere to a proposal that we think is good and we would not like bad solutions to prevent our accession. I therefore wish, in the field of expertise, to bring about a convergence and an extended vote on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u25	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u26	Madam President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Finance, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The previous intervention has already made a request to the Government — we will see whether or not it is accessed by the parliamentary seats — which is this diploma to be brought down to the committee without a vote. In fact, it is a very extensive and profound diploma for the subjects that you want to solve and for which you want to attend. for our part, obviously he would not generally deserve a favourable vote, but we have a willingness to, in the specialty, to be able to raise arguments. It is true that we start from paradigms different from those of the government to address this diploma and even judging as close to the government the intervention of the PSD, from the evaluation made of the Solvency II package. It was presented by the PSD as a new world of financial activity, which protected people from all the evils the financial system has done, but, see, Solvência II has been in operation for some time and, nevertheless, in Portugal, BES existed and it was not there that it had any kind of problems! We do not hide that there are some solvency ratios that it is necessary to alter—for a long time the Left Block requires this to be done—there is a need for renewed attention in the insurance activity as there is in the financial activity, because they are closely linked—and this is also done with openness and commitment—, now we do not give the guarantee that the market, as long as it has a regulator, will work well for people. We don't give that assurance until we see that there was a supervisor at BES and it wasn't worth much. And it's not only in BES, but also in BPN there was a regulator and it wasn't worth much. We know that, if there is strength from the State in each of the markets in particular, it is there that the State may have an intervention that regulates markets, has an influence on private activity and guarantees the rights of people. Now, that's exactly where this government attacked. The cashier had an insurance component, which was profitable, which had an important weight on the national insurance market and could therefore function as an activity which, together with other private actors, would guarantee that they remained within certain rules and conditions for people, up to conditions of price among the citizens, but what the government wanted to do was privatize the insurance party of the General Deposit Box, which, I repeat, would make profit. That is why it was not even the application of that little stripe that everything that causes damage has to be privatized. Don't! It was a profit! Hundreds of millions of euros of profit per year and yet the government privatized for a potato and a half! Now, here we see how there is no regulator who resists, there is no legislation that resists, when the state does not have an active voice in the sector in particular, and that is what this government and this majority guarantee us with the choices they have made. That is why this diploma appears here fallen from heaven as a blind person — now sent not from Paris but from Brussels — but it does not really change anything at all, because what could ultimately be changed this government really does not want to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u27	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to welcome the consensus of this House on an initiative which precisely reinforces and increases the requirement of prudential requirements and qualitative requirements and, above all, creates an additional protection framework for insured persons, beneficiaries and insurers. Of course, in the field of expertise, some of the issues raised may be discussed again, but the most important is precisely the potential of this initiative to enhance the strengthening of guarantees in the insurance sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, I give the debate, in general, of Bill No 326 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). We will move on to the second item on the agenda, but we look forward to seeing the members of the Government who will be taking part in the next debate, including the Secretary of State for Employment, to whom I wish to congratulate. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, we are in a position to begin the debate, in general, of Bill No. 328 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as a flag State or port, with a view to the fulfilment of mandatory provisions of the International Labour Organisation Maritime Convention, 2006, and transposes Council Directives 1999 / 63 / EC of 21 June 1999, 2009 / 13 / EC of 16 February 2009, 2012 / 35 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012, and 2013 / 54 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To fulfil the objectives set out both in the Maritime Labour Convention adopted in 2006 by the International Labour Organization, which Portugal approved and ratified by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 4 / 2015 and the Decree of the President of the Republic No 7 / 2015, or in the Agreement annexed to Council Directive 2009/13 / EC, whose transposition deadline ended on 20 August 2014, this diploma is hereby presented which regulates the generality of aspects of working conditions and living on board ships of the marine trade. It is known that the Maritime Labour Convention is intended to be a universally applicable instrument that guarantees the right of seafarers to decent working conditions, establishes the general principles and obligations of maritime work, regulates the obligations of States as flag States or port states, and promotes fair competition between shipowners. Portugal's responsibilities, as a flag State, require the establishment of a system of inspection and certification, with a view to ensuring that the working and living conditions of seafarers meet the standards of the Maritime Labour Convention. This diploma also provides for the minimum working age requirements on board, the requirements for medical certification and the appropriate training and qualification for work on board ships of the marine trade. Equally, working conditions are regulated, such as the conclusion of employment contracts, wages, recruitment services and placement of seafarers, duration of work and rest, annual holidays, repatriation, health protection and medical care, accident prevention, well-being and complaints procedures on board. Although many aspects are already provided for in national legislation, it does not fully regulate them in accordance with the Convention or the Agreement annexed to the Directive or does not cover all seafarers to whom such instruments apply. Therefore, this bill is intended to bring national legislation into line with the Convention and, in particular, to ensure the transposition into the domestic legal order of the Agreement annexed to the Directive. of the provisions of this proposal for a law, it should be noted that it applies to persons who work exclusively or predominantly on board a ship flying the Portuguese flag and are covered by the Convention, including those who are bound by a service contract. The minimum age of admission to work on board is 16 years and thus, in this context, the exceptions provided for in the Labour Code, which allow the provision of work by a minor under 16 years of age, are not applicable. It is proposed that the annual holidays should last two and a half days consecutive for each month of the duration of the contract in the previous year or proportionately, in the case of incomplete month. However, workers covered by the 1973 Individual Labour Contract Scheme are protected, which in some cases provides for more days of holiday for seafarers. It is also envisaged that the shipowner should constitute a security in order to ensure the payment of repatriation expenses and the protection of health and medical care is regulated in cases where the seamen are on board or on land. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Government has been confronted with the urgent need for ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention. The work of ratification and adaptation of national legislation was carried out over time and the implementation was carried out almost ten years after approval and two years after the entry into force. Council Directive 2009 / 13 / EC has placed even greater emphasis on this subject. It was under the impetus and commitment of this Government that various difficulties have been overcome and that national legislation has become possible to adapt to such international instruments, in full conviction that the respective economic sector is safeguarded, as well as the national competitiveness of the merchant navy, while putting the working and living conditions on board the workers covered by these instruments under the highest international standards. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u31	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u32	Madam President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Employment, Members: The objective of the Maritime Labour Convention is to ensure a decent work of about 1, 2 million maritime workers worldwide and to create conditions of fair competition for shipowners. Portugal, by signing this Convention, by the hand of the XVII Government, intended to guarantee the fundamental rights of maritime workers to have decent work, work which can only be guaranteed with a minimum age of admission to employment, a regulated employment contract, a working time and regulated holiday arrangements, decent working conditions, ensuring safety and health at work, ensuring accommodation and decent food, health care on board and social protection. thus, Portugal, in ratifying the Maritime Labour Convention, takes an important step to promote the minimum conditions of decent work on Portuguese ships. But the ratification of this Convention of the International Labour Organization is not only about adapting national legislation to the Maritime Labour Convention and Council Directive 2009/13 / EC, but also aims to inspect the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as all vessels flying flags of Member States of the Convention and operating in national ports. in this way, and due to its geographical position and its exclusive economic zone, Portugal plays a major role in ensuring compliance with this Convention. Only by ensuring the monitoring of the Maritime Labour Convention on board all ships operating in Portuguese ports is that we can guarantee work with dignity to all these workers. Portugal, at the conclusion of the ratification process, will be entering the main core of countries which in the world have included in their legal order the observance of the Convention, which is clearly positive and excellent news for seafarers all over the world, thus estimating that 50 % of world fleet vessels are covered by this Convention adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization, held in Geneva. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u33	Mr Bruno Dias also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There is a previous issue to be raised. The Government has entered into office in 2011 ; this Maritime Labour Convention is 2006 and had to be adopted and transposed by 2014 at the latest ; the Government now submits this proposal for transposition in May 2015 ; the only opinions it has provided to the Assembly of the Republic are 2006, concerning the Convention rather than the bill. The question therefore remains whether or not there has been any consultation and involvement of representative structures in relation to the proposed law, which is not identical to the Convention. Why has there not been any opinion on this matter, and now why does the Government present this bill in the last year of its term of office, out of time, almost 10 years after the Convention? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members of the Government, saying, of course, that the proposed transposition of the Maritime Labour Convention is a matter which we would still like to raise another issue, which is how this Maritime Labour Convention is transposed and which has to do with the working conditions of the seafarers from a working point of view. We all know, and everyone will agree, that seafarers' work, seawork is by nature a work in precarious and often dangerous conditions. This precaution is enough, there is no need to add it to work precariousness. Therefore, when we check in particular Article 8. the proposal for a law, the introduction of the figure of the service contract on board a ship and, in the rules of revocation, the end of the exclusion of sea work, i.e. the integration of maritime work into the legislation on temporary work enterprises, we conclude that it is a political option that is not acceptable, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u36	Therefore, within a good thing in general, which is the transposition of the Maritime Labour Convention, there is a concrete issue which will mean an attack on living and working conditions and the rights of maritime workers. That is why we are here warning, especially since the Convention itself, in its articles and standards, when it speaks of the recruitment of maritime workers to work, expressly states that nothing in this standard has the effect of (a) preventing a country from ensuring a free public service of recruitment — which we do not have — nor, (b) impose on a country the obligation to establish in its territory a system of management of private recruitment services. Therefore, you do not do what the Convention provides for, but they do have to do what the Convention does not say is prohibited, but it does not say that it is mandatory. Mrs. Members of the Government, there is a question that has to do with the lack of means, particularly at the level of the Port State Control inspection, because we can have the world's most correct laws—it is probably not the case—that even the working conditions, at the level of our maritime safety, can not be guaranteed. See what happened with the entry from Portugal to the grey list of Paris MoU (Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control) with regard to the Port State Control inspections. Finally, to conclude, Mr President and Mr Secretary of State, we raise this objection to the way in which maritime workers are more precarious, saying that it is important for this House to do what the Government has apparently failed to do, that it is to hear, in a serious and in-depth manner, the representative structures of the workers [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u37	Mr Armenio Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: With this bill, Portugal will ratify the Maritime Labour Convention adopted in 2006 by the ILO (International Labour Organisation) and its rules will enter into force in the Portuguese legal regime 12 months after the registration of its ratification. This proposal is presented after an appropriate dialogue with all the social partners, contrary to what Mr CFP said. This Convention aims to integrate and systematize, in a single legal instrument, dozens of ILO conventions and recommendations, which regulate the various matters of maritime work and are intended to constitute a kind of code of labour relations in the field of marine trade. Such matters as protection in the area of social security, vocational training and qualifications, working conditions, hiring, remuneration, working hours, holidays, return and accommodation are dealt with in this Convention in a correct way. It is therefore sought to apply the international regulation of work in the maritime trade in a universal way, complementing the International Maritime Organization and constituting this Convention that we will ratify on its fourth pillar, following the International Convention for the Safety of Life in the Sea, the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Room Services for the Maritimes and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution by Ships. On the other hand, this Convention also regulates the obligations of States, as a flag State or port State, imposing on it the responsibility to apply the rules of this Convention on the part of vessels flying flags which have ratified it or have not ratified it. We are therefore in the presence of a Convention which gives more guarantees and dignity to the work done on commercial ships, simplifies the legal treatment of this type of relationship and is good for the economy of the various countries. It should also be noted, Madam President, that many of the aspects related to the working and living conditions on board ships of the merchant navy, provided for in this Convention, are already covered by national legislation, in particular the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009. The Social Democratic Party believes that the presentation of this ratification proposal is a measure that should be welcomed because it meets the interests of the workers working in this sector, the Portuguese economy and Portugal within the European Union. That is why we give him our support. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u39	Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We find ourselves discussing the proposed law transposing to the national legal system four directives of the Council and of the European Parliament regulating the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as a flag State or port, with a view to fulfilling the mandatory provisions of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention of the International Labour Organisation. This transposition has a special symbology, it is not a mere transposition of norms. We are an Atlantic country, we are a country with maritime tradition and we have an obligation to protect in the best possible way, with the best legal devices possible our seamen, who so much tradition have in the international panorama.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u42	This Convention was adopted by the International Labour Conference on 23 February 2006 and entered into force 12 months after the registration of its ratification by the first 30 Member States of the International Labour Organisation, which represent at least 33 % of the world fleet of merchant navy, which took place on 20 August 2013. The Convention regulates, and it is important to say, minimum age requirements, medical certificate, training and qualifications for work on board ships — i.e. safety of workers, equity in hiring. The Convention also regulates working conditions, such as the conclusion of the contract of work, remuneration, duration of work or rest, annual holidays, repatriation, ship security, accommodation, leisure facilities in vessels themselves, food, table service, health protection and medical care, sailing and on land — that is, safety, decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u44	The Convention also regulates social security protection and, finally, obligations of States as a flag State or port State, with a view to the compliance and control of the application of the Convention by vessels flying the flag of the States which have ratified it. It is true that some States that have not ratified and Portugal are included in the States that guarantee compliance with these labour rights rules for workers, safety and equity rules in competition between shipowners. The generality of the aspects of working and living conditions on board merchant ships, regulated by the Convention, are already well under Portuguese legislation. Portugal does not live apart from the rights of these workers, nor the regulation of the rights and duties of these companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u46	What we are trying to do here is to harmonise national legislation so that the legislative body we are now able to harmonise itself in a broader, broader and shared legislative body by several countries within the framework of the International Labour Organisation's directives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u48	The purpose of this bill is therefore to bring national legislation into line with the Convention and to ensure the transposition into the domestic legal order of the Agreement annexed to the Directive. of the provisions contained in this proposal for a law, it is important to highlight the following: - applies to persons who work exclusively, but also to those who work predominantly; the minimum age for admission to work on board is 16 years, as in other circumstances; the contract of work on board ship must be concluded in writing and in two copies; the duration of the seamen's working time is regulated by two types of rules; it is proposed that the annual holidays be two and a half days consecutive for each month of the duration of the previous year's contract, as in the remaining employment contracts, which has not happened so far; repatriation of the seamen; the shipowner is responsible for organizing and costing the repatriation;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u49	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u50	... the shipowner is a security to ensure the payment of repatriation expenses, a recurring problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u51	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u52	Mr President, even at the end of the day, we wanted to congratulate the Government and welcome this transposition and this additional security for these workers and the possibility of competition in the international market for these companies. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u54	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: The 2006 Maritime Labour Convention is a major step forward for millions of workers worldwide. It is the result of international work and it should have been transposed into national legal system since 2006 and the Secretary of State acknowledged it implicitly in intervention. however, this Convention, which establishes the minimum rights of maritime workers and which also regulates the obligations of the State, does not oblige those conditions to be below those which it itself establishes, nor does it require States to have better conditions. It is about this because Portugal was obliged, in this transposition too, to caution in a positive way, other matters, particularly those of working time. This bill provides for the eight-hour working hours per day to go up to 48 hours. I believe that, in harmony with the national legal system, we should establish the 40 hours, because this is how our legal system is structured, particularly in the Labour Code. You don't realize why, for these workers, you go to 48 hours. On the other hand, we are also concerned about the question of service providers, knowing how they operate, whether at sea or on land, temporary work companies, how they slip between the fingers of supervision, which should be of a heavier hand. That is why, by subscribing to the objectives of the Convention and that these objectives and the content of the Convention should be transposed into the national legal system, even if it is too late, we say from here what can happen, it must happen that we will improve these same principles. I shall conclude by saying, Mr Secretary of State, that, in consultation with the registration of this bill, what we find are contributions dated August 2006. It is worth noting why this happened, and the Secretary of State here told us that there was dialogue with the social partners. If this has indeed been the case, here is a regrettable delay of many years, of nine years. We need to know what dialogue has happened and that the Secretary of State has provided us with the result of this dialogue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u55	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate, in general, of Bill No 328 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), we will move to the third point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1448 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the fundamental role of the Act through the opening of an invitation to tender for labour inspectors by complying with the ILO ( PS ) and 1475 / XII Conventions ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of inspectors, strengthening of means and valuing the role of ACT ( BE ). To present draft resolution No 1448 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents this draft resolution, from the outset and in the first place, for the unique and relevant importance of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) mission. It is a mission to promote safety and health at work, a mission to prevent occupational diseases and accidents at work and a mission to inspect effective working conditions and to comply with labour law. It should be noted in this debate that the incidence rates of serious and fatal work accidents continue to present very worrying indices. It is said that serious work accidents and occupational diseases cost 2, 6 % to 3, 8 % of GDP in Portugal. in a context of crisis and high unemployment, what we have seen in Portugal, with this governance, is a strong increase in precariousness and a significant increase in undeclared work, to which a work deregulation has been combined by the PSD/CDS-PP government, with profound changes to the Labour Code, always in the sense of disregulating, deprotecting, making the relationship of work fragmented and more fragile in Portugal. In addition to successive budget cuts affecting the Working Conditions Authority, at the point of hearing here in the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Inspector General of Labour said that they had not, at least, fuel money for the inspection cars and that there were serious problems in the ACT facilities, forcing employees themselves to clean up, to the hygiene of the facilities, when often even water entered by the roofs of these facilities, by that country outside. Only a very relevant number: in 2009 there were 402 labour inspectors, even below the ILO-defined ratio ; currently there are only 309. And that is how, in this framework, an organic law for the Working Conditions Authority is still lacking, which this Government has been unable to produce at the end of four years, says Mrs Deputies 'well' and, indeed, what we are hearing, even better because, if it is to do worse, it is enough enough to do so, in a framework where they have withdrawn the powers of the Act to monitor working conditions in the Public Administration, without providing that it is carried out by any other body, which the Socialist Party believes that if the Government, the PSD and the CDS-PP want decent work in Portugal, they must urgently strengthen the financial and human resources of the Act by opening a competition for labour inspectors. Only if you do not want a decent job in Portugal will you vote against this draft resolution of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u57	Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us bring here a draft resolution that we can systematize in four points. Firstly, it is intended to strengthen contracts guaranteeing the ILO ratio of one inspector per 10 000 workers; secondly, it is intended to regulate the inspection career, with the guarantee of the inspection supplement; thirdly, it is intended to provide the technical and financial means necessary to complete the functions of the Working Conditions Authority and, fourthly, to enhance this inspection and to respect the rights of workers. We make these recommendations on the basis of the reality that the Working Conditions Authority is today. With regard to the strengthening of contracts, it must be said that since 2011 there has been a decrease in the number of inspectors. Inspectors who retired were not replaced and therefore there is a reduction in this framework, which naturally and obviously makes it difficult to play the role of this important Authority. Thereafter, successive budgets have always reduced the amount of money for the operation of the Working Conditions Authority and the reports we have heard from labour inspectors who, instead of going to the field to inspect the working conditions and the realization of what is the obligation of the employer in respect of labour laws, are retained due to lack of means of travel and also doing other tasks than their own. On the other hand, the internal climate, also due to all these difficulties, is becoming quite complicated, which does not help the proper operation of the inspection. The refusals which currently exist, in particular, of requests for continuous working hours and of greater intervention by inspectors and inspectors, knowing that the composition of this Authority has been modified, do not contribute anything to the improvement of the functioning of the Working Conditions Authority. We therefore simply present what we believe are the four main recommendations to the Government and that the majority today should adopt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u59	All right! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u60	Mr Artur Rego has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to begin by saying that the CDS-PP has always acknowledged — it has already stated here, and - publicly - the role and importance of the Act. In addition, in several debates in this plenary, when we were talking about authorizations, reinforcements of labour legislation and new impediments to labour legislation, we always said that labour legislation protected, in such cases—protects and is all shaped there—the rights of workers, and we were talking about supervisory issues, we were talking about the very important role that ACT and its inspectors have in this area. I think there is no doubt about that. It is clear that times have not been easy and have been transversal to the entire Public Administration, throughout the State, the financial difficulties due to the Memorandum of Understanding, which we have gone through in the last two or three years. But the fact is that even if there are budgetary constraints, this does not necessarily mean that there is no respect and recognition of the role and importance of ACT and its inspectors. As for the rest of the recommendations made here, it is clear that political figures can be made from this and around it to go out in the press, to go out to the public, to have electoral gains and advantages, and in fact these two draft resolutions do not go away from that. This is because the recommendations being made here are in line with the ILO Convention. I would like to say that ILO recommends, as mentioned here, an inspector per 10,000 workers. Now, Portugal currently has 307 inspectors on the continent, plus 42, as a result of the new competition that was opened and that was made, 13 more inspectors in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, i.e. Portugal has one inspector per 10,500 workers. It's perfectly within the ILO ratios. You can say I could have more. Obviously he could, but it is not on the ground that he is not fulfilling the ILO ratios. Both draft resolutions recommend strengthening contracts to ensure this ratio. It's done, the contest was opened for additional inspection reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u62	When was it approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u63	They recommend the provision of technical and financial resources necessary to carry out their duties. Having explained the constraints, this recognition is made by the Government, which is currently acting in the sense that, in addition to the resources it has already provided, it has included additional resources for the ACT, as far as the possibilities of the State are concerned. Finally, they recommend the enhancement of the role of ACT and respect for workers' rights. Mrs. Members, it is clear that the enhancement of the role of ACT is a matter of philosophy. It has never and never been called into question, nor has it been the essential role of its inspectors. The importance of this role in guaranteeing workers' rights has never been questioned. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u64	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing the CDS-PP intervention, the first thing we wanted to say is that the CDS-PP deeply disrespects all workers and their representative structures,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... invoking the intervention of the Working Conditions Authority which, due to the lack of inspectors, does not have the conditions to intervene. The Union of Road and Urban Transport Workers of Portugal requested 53 ACT interventions in 2013. He got 19 answers. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] The Union of Industrial and Hotel Workers asked for intervention in eight workplaces and still awaits the ACT response.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u66	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u67	The Federation of Building, Ceramic and Glass Trade Unions requested a meeting of the ACT Inspector General on non-compliance with the payment of the meal allowance in three factories of the same group and continues to be unanswered. The Trade Workers' Union, Desktops and Services has no answer for 40 complaints submitted, only in the Lisbon district. And the CDS-PP comes here to say that everything is fine in the Working Conditions Authority and that this government values very much the ACT! Is that what you're talking about? It values, because this Government is complicit in the violation of workers' rights and, by failing to guarantee the number of inspectors required, this Government is responsible, directly and indirectly, for the abuse and violation of the law. Today, in the workplace, what is more there is continuous and repeated abuse, intimidation, blackmail and illegality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u69	This is the reality of workplaces. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And this government knows, because it has found various ways to prevent the intervention of the ACT and has done so, of course, because 200 inspectors are missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u71	in this country, there are missing 200 labour inspectors and, by failing to guarantee the proper number, this government is well associated, and the patronage also, with the violation of workers' rights. Therefore, Mr President, the CFP presented in April a proposal, which is for discussion in the field of expertise, for the effective recruitment of inspectors, for the fulfilment of the ILO ratios. Portugal has ratified the conventions, the Portuguese State is obliged to comply with this and the rights of workers must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u73	That is what requires the democratic regime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party and the Left Block presented in the Assembly of the Republic two draft resolutions recommending to the Government, through the opening of a competition for labour inspectors, the recognition of the fundamental role of the Working Conditions Authority, the strengthening of the means and the enhancement of its role. It is therefore important to say that the Act, its mission and its functions are of utmost importance to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u76	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u77	We recognize and value ACT — we have always done so — because we understand that respect for decent work and for the fulfilment of labour relations is fundamental in society. It should be remembered that the legislative changes made in 2012, some of the Labour Code, were precisely in this regard. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] These amendments were designed to ensure that the Act fulfilled its supervisory role. Some changes, again to be emphasized in 2012, were introduced with the aim of reducing bureaucratic procedures that had no effective reflection on the work relationship, allowing the ACT to focus its activity on effective control of work relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u79	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I now remind Mr Nuno Sá of the Socialist Party, who speaks of amendments to the Labour Code and its deregulation, that the reform that was made in labour legislation resulted from an agreement made by the Socialist Party and the troika — he must have forgotten. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I also want to say that, as a result of these projects, the efficiency and inspection effectiveness of ACT has never been challenged. I repeat, it has never been challenged. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will recall a statement from the 2014 ACT, referring to the 2013 activity report, which focuses on three essential aspects. It says that more workers were benefited from the act, that the inspectors visited more than 37,000 jobs and that, although slightly, there was a decrease in labor weakness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u80	There's no doubt about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u81	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these data were not determined either by the Government or by the majority, but by an independent entity, by the ACT.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u83	Therefore, data show that inspection efficiency is not at stake, it is not at stake the efficiency of inspection of labour relations, with which we are very concerned. Let me also acknowledge, at this moment, the excellent and important role that ACT has been developing in the field of health and safety at work, a commitment to prevention, which we consider essential and that we believe will continue, with many benefits for all workers. Finally, and regarding the question of the recruitment of workers, it should also be recalled that an invitation to tender for the recruitment of more than 42 labour inspectors has been allowed. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I reaffirm, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that for this Government and for this majority is very important the effective functioning of an inspection body with the importance of ACT. It is essential for us to guarantee a decent work and therefore to express our recognition, both for the role that has been developed by the majority and by the Government and, essentially and in particular, by all the workers of the Act. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u84	For a second intervention, although it does not have much time, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and CDS say here that the effectiveness and mission of the ACT has never been involved. The Trade Union of the Workers of the Industry of the Hotelaria, Tourism, Restaurants and Similarities of the South requested the intervention of ACT in eight workplaces because of what, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? the late wages, physical aggression, the non-recognition of union delegates, the refusal to make the discount of trade union contributions, the violation of fundamental rights. The union never got answers and I wonder if this is to guarantee the normal functioning of the ACT. [[PSD protests.]] The Portuguese Federation of Building Unions requested the intervention of the ACT taking into account the payment of the meal allowance. I didn't get an answer and the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, everything's fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u86	Not everything's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u87	The PSD and the CDS say that everything goes well because they live well with the violation of workers' rights, because their commitment is with the worsening exploitation and the degradation of working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u88	They're out of reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u89	from the PCP side, we will continue to require the effective hiring of 200 inspectors. It is unacceptable that you come here to say, on the eve of elections, that the government is preparing...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u90	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u91	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the majority here are saying that the government is preparing an invitation to tender for 42 inspectors — the obligation is 200, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! And when we said here that although the new organic law was not published it was because the new organic law of the ACT provided for the closure of some regional delegations and made it difficult to access workers to the ACT.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u93	The CFP's commitment is not to the violation of workers' rights, it is to their defense, to their full respect and that is why we will continue to fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u94	The floor is now also for a second speech, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, who has 28 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are no labour inspectors to comply with the ratios. The accounts of the CDS Member are bad — or the active population has collapsed or, then, is saying that the number of inspectors has increased when this has not happened. In fact, he spoke of 42 inspectors who still don't exist. The competition is open, but to meet the ratio, about 200 inspectors are missing and that is your obligation. The second note is that the legislative initiative currently under discussion is serious and based on the concrete situation experienced in the ACT. No one's here making any fireworks. Foguetório does you when you should take action and not take them. Today, the inefficiencies of the labour inspection in responding to the demands of trade unions and workers are linked to the cuts that you have made since 2011 — they cut 32 % in the budget of the Working Conditions Authority. Ineficacy is linked to the contempt with which many of the inspectors and inspectors deal, when they ask for what they themselves control: the continuous journey is unfavourable to women with minor children, geographical mobility is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u97	In other words, it is in the inspection itself that the rights of the inspectors themselves are not complied with.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u98	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u99	I conclude now, Mr President. What we bring here is serious, and if you were serious, you also adopted these recommendations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u100	Speak seriously at your place!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u101	Political seriousness, Member of the Commission! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u102	Mr Nuno Sá asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u103	It is for an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u104	I remind you you you only have 11 seconds. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u105	Mr President, I will try to use them in the best way. Mrs. Members, who didn't do this debate in a serious way and wanted to focus here was the PSD and the CDS-PP. First, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes did not deny that there was deregulation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u106	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u107	...and it is also not true that what they did to the Labour Code was the agreement between the Socialist Party and the troika, because they went far beyond and were very bad. I remind you, for example, that the reduction in the number of communications mandatory to ACT is your responsibility, as well as the individual hour bank for each worker,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as well as the reduction of days of compensation in dismissal cases or the very causes for dismissal. That is your reform of the Labour Code, with which the Socialist Party has nothing to do with it. But Mr Artur Rêgo brought here a novelty, denied by his colleague of the current majority. A contest has been opened or there is an authorization to open a contest, as the PSD said? It is because a contest has been opened, it seems to me that you have the opportunity to lie to me and then tell me, please. It seems to me that the person who came here to focus was the honourable Member and is not doing the debate in a serious way unless you tell me, now, where the competition is open. Was it opened a minute ago? Is it open where? Who can apply?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u108	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u109	It is that, so far, there is no open competition and that is not serious. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the agenda for decent work and reality require an effective act. The European Parliament adopted a resolution on 14 January 2014 saying that the inspection for working conditions is essential and must have adequate financial and human resources. Let us see what has happened, at least in this fact: for the first time, there was a strike on the workers of the Working Conditions Authority. Why? Due to lack of working conditions in the Act itself. Take note of this fact and approve the draft resolution of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u110	This concludes the discussion of the third item on our agenda. We are now moving to the fourth point, which consists of the joint debate of draft resolution No 1150 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the defence, development and public management of the TAP as a national flag airline ( CFP ), of petitions Nos 454 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Union of Civil Aviation Flight Personnel ( SNPVAC ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to suspend the privatisation process of TAP Portugal, SGPS, and 460 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Committee of Workers of TAP Portugal — Manifesto against the privatisation of TAP, of draft resolution No 1472 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Immediate cancellation of the privatisation process of the TAP ( The Greens ), of Bill No 902 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure TAP as a public undertaking ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 1479 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the defence of TAP ( PS ). For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has promoted the scheduling of this debate in plenary so that this House will discuss the path to the future of the TAP and not the deadlock or the hole in which they want to put it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u113	We greatly appreciate and warmly welcome the requests against the privatisation of TAP, promoted by TAP workers and their organizations, that the agenda of the CFP allowed them to be also appreciated in this plenary session, and of course we welcome the initiatives that other parties have joined in this debate, against privatization. To say no to the privatization of TAP is already a patriotic duty in itself. They are increasingly those who make their voice heard against this policy of treason of national interest with the alienation of our TAP, of our flag airline. But we go further, we from the PCP, present concrete proposals to defend the TAP and build a future of development and sustainability for the company. With this debate it is once again demonstrated that there are no inevitability or paths of one sense. There are alternatives, there are solutions that are possible and that it is essential to take forward, as soon as possible, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The CFP advocates the release of public undertakings, in particular TAP, from the absurd management restrictions currently imposed by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u114	Fair enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u115	... that TAP is supported in solving the problem of the old VEM, the so-called Brazilian Maintenance ; that it invests in maintaining the TAP, modernizing it by extending staff frames and facilities; that it ends instability in the handling or assistance on scale and strengthens the connection of SPdH ( Portuguese Services of Handling, S.A. ) to TAP ; that the capitalisation needs of TAP are resolved in a serious way, responsible and in the defence of the interests of the country and the company, and that the public support and financing of the companies competing with TAP is terminated, from the start the so-called low cost, which are high cost to the national economy. What is needed is to defend the TAP, keeping it in the public sphere. Only then can you safeguard your role as a strategic enterprise for the economy and for national sovereignty. The problems affecting TAP are essentially the result of government options, since leaving Brazil with the problems to cancel the renewal of the fleet, the bleeding of personnel and resources. It was the government that caused or maintained these situations and knew what I was doing. He was alerted by the workers and their structures! Now, whether to impose a lightning TAP delivery operation, knowing that it could only be done if legal procedures were turned into a complete farce, outside the law and against the regular functioning of democratic institutions. No matter how much it costs you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the struggle of workers and all patriots will not stop and it will be that struggle that will defeat your policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u116	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government is preparing to make a historic mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u118	An error saving TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u119	And the scale of the error that the privatisation of the TAP represents is of such order and so evident that it has deserved the opposition of citizens of all political quadrants, which has led to the creation of movements to stop the process, also by judicial means, and also by the workers, who have organized themselves to present two petitions to the Assembly of the Republic, with thousands and thousands of subscribers to challenge their privatization and who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of those who are here today, especially those who are with us. This wave of indignation shows that the government is isolated in defending the privatisation of TAP. And it is no less, because TAP is a strategic company, which, in addition to being one of the largest domestic exporting companies, is also an instrument of our sovereignty, in a country with 11 Atlantic islands and important emigrant communities across all continents, scattered a little around the world. In addition, TAP directly and indirectly involves more than 20 000 jobs and continues to contribute annually to the state’s coffers with around EUR 100 million in IRS and around EUR 100 million in social security. Moreover, as we all know, the paid debt of the TAP is due solely to the disastrous acquisition operation of the VEM, Brazil, with which, in fact, this government peacefully complied, having done nothing — not even an effort! — for its renegotiation. The question is that, despite the importance of this airline and what it represents for the country and for the Portuguese, the Government has since assumed as a strategic objective its sale to the private sector and therefore has always looked at this important company not as a potential for development in the service of national and Portuguese interests but as a simple commodity for sale. in this sense, the government has over time been preparing the land, creating limitations and constraints in its management to try to show the inevitability of its sale. But the talk of the inevitability of the privatisation of TAP is not new and at least the government should learn from mistakes. in fact, in 1997 the sale of TAP to Swissair was also presented as inevitable and its inevitability was of such order that the then government even claimed that there would be no money for the next month's wages if the privatisation of TAP did not advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u121	He said the sale to Swissair was the only way to save TAP and keep it operating.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u122	That's what you saw!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u123	Almost two decades have passed, Swissair no longer exists and Sabena, sold to Swissair, no longer exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u124	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u125	In view of this framework, the last 18 years should be sufficient for the Government to realize the extent of the error that it is preparing to commit to the privatisation of TAP. And if the Government is unable to perceive the error, of two, one, or there are interests in this privatization that the Portuguese can not envision and that the Government is unable to make known, or then this inability results from the neoliberal blindness of the PSD Government / CDS-PP that inhibits it from understanding the size of the error that the privatisation of TAP represents for Portugal and for the Portuguese. The government is still in time to abandon its objective of handing over TAP to the private and thus showing some commitment to asserting and defending the public interest and even defending national sovereignty. The purpose of the legislative initiative presented by the Greens today is that the Government should immediately reverse the process of privatisation of the TAP and thus ensure the defence of the public interest and the defence of national sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, a few days ago, we wanted to introduce in the report of the Committee of Inquiry to BES a reference to the hurry with which they sold the New Bank, they prevented us from introducing that reference because it devalued the value of the New Bank when it was sold. Therefore, we can only be disturbed when we see the multiplication of statements by the Minister of Economy or the Secretary of State of the Economy talking about the degraded financial situation of the TAP, the pressure they have to sell the TAP and the absence of even a minimum value for the sale of TAP. Regardless of the opinion we have on whether TAP should be public or private, we cannot accept statements from members of the Government who place their interests, their political-party options in front of the public interest and the value of this essential public enterprise. That is unacceptable, and that is the first point we want to bring to the debate. But it is not only in the statements that we see this irresponsible pressure from the government, it is also in the method of sale. How can we accept that one of the best and largest Portuguese companies is sold and TAP has three working days to analyze proposals which are, in itself, highly complex in a very complex sector, itself, in its regulation? How can we accept that after three working days the Parpublica has five working days to evaluate these highly complex proposals and with a high technical character? And how can we have assurances that this defends the public interest and the interest of TAP? We can't! That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't trust you. We do not trust this government, we do not trust the Secretary of State, we do not trust the Minister of Economics to conduct the TAP process, regardless of whether it is public or private and our opinion on it, which we will now go to. What are these proposals, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What are these proposals we have on the table? What are these people? What do you want? Where do you come from? What interest do these people have in developing the Portuguese economy? What assurances do we have that TAP is still an essential company for the development of the Portuguese economy within 20 years? None! They do not give us any guarantees, as PT shareholders did not give us any guarantees when, on behalf of their profit and their profitability, they sold PT, decapitalized it and eventually moved their headquarters to another country, regardless of the promises on the guarantee of the strategic centre stay in Portugal. This is the experience we have on privatization. And not only privatization doesn't make sense, as they don't give any guarantee. The proposals we have on the table do not guarantee that the capitalisation that the TAP needs will be made. The values that circulate do not give us at least that guarantee. The Government has not yet been able to justify its haste and is unable to disguise the weakness with which it is disbursed from another company essential to the Portuguese economy and society. The only certainty we have in this process is what we know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to see another strategic center, the last strategic company in this country in public hands, flying to foreign hands. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an assault on the country, this has a name: 'privataria'. What is happening in this country is « private sector ». It is a assault on the country, its strategic centres, on the companies essential for the development of the country, without any reason. And so we want to congratulate all the workers, movements and unions who have joined against this 'privataria' and tell them that together we will certainly be able to fight it and prevent it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u128	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, it is necessary to stop the privatisation of TAP. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u130	And the best way to do it is to change government. It is to change government because this government is obsessed with privatizing everything and granting everything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want to greet the petitioners. The defense of a TAP aligned with the strategic interests of the Portuguese State is something we accompany, because it is to defend the public interest. Vice Prime Minister Paulo Portas said last week that TAP should not be a reason for division. It is unfortunate that, like many other matters, the Prime Minister does not have any connection with what the Deputy Prime Minister says, because if he had linked attention to the availability of the Socialist Party for dialogue, he would have taken into account the proposals we have already put forward and we continue to present, and the proposals put forward by other parties. But Prime Minister Pedro Passos Rabbit reveals a huge arrogance. It's arrogant because you refused the dialogue. It is arrogant because he considers that only his solutions are good. It is arrogant because it even considers that only its solutions are possible. It is arrogant because it is obsessed with privatizations, with private businesses, with intransparent processes. It is arrogant because it refuses to access the opposition to relevant documentation, finding itself above democratic scrutiny. All this is very negative, but more negative is this enormous rush to privatize, jumping phases, running into deadlines, launching chaos in the sector. So we will be very careful about this process. We recall that, for example, in the ANA process, between the choice of a winner and the completion of the process took nine months. Nine months, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! We will see what this enormous rush from the government and the run-up they are doing at all stages and at all times. I leave a final note: for the Socialist Party, the public interest demands that this process be stopped. For PS, the public interest requires a TAP in which the State does not lose most of the company's capital. We hope that it will not be consolidated in the legal sphere irreversible effects but, in any case, a government led by Antonio Costa will do everything to keep the majority of TAP's social capital in the possession of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u131	Mr Luís Vales has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let me start by addressing the promoters of the petitions we are discussing today. The members of the majority have made the most of the arguments put forward and we agree with the strategic importance of the TAP in our economy, in the defence of our language and our historical heritage, but we disagree when what will happen in the future, if the situation does not change. The economic and financial situation of the TAP requires urgent recapitalisation of TAP, confident that it cannot be the Portuguese State to do so as an shareholder. This restriction has been constantly explained by the Prime Minister and it seems to us that at this stage we are all fully aware of what it would mean for the TAP to go through restructuring. Yes, you need to speak the truth to the Portuguese. Yes, you have to say what are the options to decide. This is what the Portuguese expect of this majority: that they know how to meet their responsibilities and take the necessary steps to defend the interests of the company. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality: the TAP needs more capital and to renew its fleet. No, it's not about selling TAP at any price. No, it is not a process against workers. But this is what the pilots'union did not realize, even making the following statement during the recent strike: we were able to inflict a damage of EUR 30 million on the TAP. however, I am sure that the other staff unions do not reveal themselves in this statement, since they fight, on their daily basis, for the continuity of their jobs and for the future of their company. Today, the Portuguese know that the solution of the government is to defend the interests of the TAP, but also today the Portuguese know what the Socialist Party wants : an impossible solution that would pass through the increase in capital of the TAP in the stock market. This means that the Portuguese know more or less today what the Socialist Party wants for TAP, but they don't know if tomorrow will continue to want the same things. This is because the PS is changing its opinion according to electoral cycles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u134	Let us be clear: is it not true that the decision to privatize TAP was taken in a Council of Ministers where Antonio Costa participated as a member of the government? [[PSD applause.]] Yes, the Socialist Party has already wanted the privatisation of TAP and now it does not want that privatisation. What changed then? The answer is predictable: the electoral cycle has changed. The Socialist Party is today more concerned about pleasing everything and everyone, because it is thinking about votes. How? Postponing, running away from their responsibilities, deciding badly, pretending nothing to decide. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese know well, we know, what was the price of this irresponsibility, because it was us, families and businesses, who, during these four years, made enormous sacrifices to pay the inheritance left by the Socialist Party and its government irresponsibility. Allow me, therefore, to end with a quote from Fernando Pessoa: "There is a time when we have to abandon the worn clothes, which already have the shape of our body, and forget our ways, which always take us to the same places. It is the time of the journey: and if we do not dare to do it, we shall have remained forever on our own side». That is what it is, of courage to decide and to govern, of courage to continue to lift the colors of our nation very high and thus to defend the interests of our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u135	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and then to clarify that, although it may seem, this is not the first time we are discussing this issue. I must remember that, either by the defenders of a patriotic and left-wing policy, the Portuguese Communist Party, or by the most radical and more fashion left, have already been presented, by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, five similar draft resolutions on this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u137	It's a lie! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u138	...by the Left Block, three, and by the PS, three. And they do not think there is any consequences in these matters. Of course there are consequences. And these consequences brought 1100 strike notices in the transport sector, 200 days of full strike and 700 days of partial strike. This means that while the left fashion and the left most radical go to the country, there is another country that works. Even yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear the Portuguese Confederation of Tourism in this same House ask for urgency and seriousness in solving the TAP problem. And the Socialist Party was present—but I'll go there to the Socialist Party. So there's a country that works. And this is reflected in tourism, which grew back to two digits in the first quarter of 2015, with 7, 2 million tourists, a growth of 11 % and 15 % of profits. This is the country that works and asks us for urgency and speed in solving the TAP problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u140	As for the Socialist Party, I confess that I will try to be the nicest one I can achieve. The Socialist Party always wanted to privatize TAP. It has never been competent to privatize TAP. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And even I can recall the response of the Government of the Socialist Party to Mr Heitor de Sousa — which said that « with TGV and cakes the fools are deceived », but which later voted in favour of the TGV — which was the following: « The recapitalisation of the TAP Group is an urgent necessity and without it the company is in a fragile situation » ( that is, on 19 July 2010 ). But we could say: good, but the Socialist Party wants to go to Europe asking for money. And what does the Socialist Party say? It says that, in view of the country's situation and the legal impositions of European law, there is no other solution in the European context than to privatize the company. After all, what are we left on, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What are we staying on? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u141	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u142	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, have you read the draft resolution of the CFP that is under discussion? The honourable Member is speaking, in which he does not say a single word about the concrete measures that we are presenting. So I ask you whether you have read the diploma, whether you are afraid to talk about these measures, or whether you do not know what you are discussing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u143	To reply, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u144	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, as is my custom, I have read the diploma, I know I am discussing and, moreover, I will send out the draft resolutions submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, so that they can then confirm what I said. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u145	That's all fake! This is the first time we have presented this project!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u146	It is! They changed a comma...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u147	The relationship with the truth is very difficult! Lying is so ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u148	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u149	Mr President, in fact, the CDS-PP's interventions on this matter — and I will also try to be the most friendly one to achieve — have a great deal of progress with reality. But it is not because they seek to distort the reality, the positions and citations that they become true. It is more or less like that translation of the Memorandum that the PSD usually brings to the debates, in the Marco António Costa version, which is not because it is a thousand times repeated that becomes true. But the essential point—and Mr Hélder Amaral referred to the intervention, in the Working Party on Tourism of the Committee on Economics and Public Works, of the President of the Portuguese Tourism Confederation—the most relevant aspect of what he said, which he was (and I assume still) a defender of the privatization of TAP, was that these proposals are far from ideal and defending the national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's the point! It is that neither those who ideologically defend privatization can defend these positions. It is important to say two things very quickly here. First of all, what the Socialist Party has always defended in its positions was partial privatization—and when they talk about Swissair, it was 34 %, I repeat, 34 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u150	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u151	In the Memorandum, the same thing. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, really... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u152	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President, by letting Members of the majority who do not like what they are hearing. But even if the Socialist Party had changed its position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u154	That was more honest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u155	... which has not done, it is necessary the CDS-PP, the leader Paulo Portas, that of irrevocable resignation, to have a large « can» to refer to other positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u156	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u157	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: our solutions are clear, objective, possible. I therefore conclude by saying what I started my previous intervention: it is necessary to stop this privatisation process, it is necessary to change from government. And a government of the Socialist Party will do everything to keep TAP under control by the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u158	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u159	Mr. President, the CDS announced it had something to distribute. But you didn't distribute anything, did you, Mr. President? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u160	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u161	Thank you, no, Mr. President. I'm asking if the CDS distributed anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u162	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u163	I ask the floor to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u164	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u165	Mr President, we are waiting for the employees of the Assembly of the Republic, which we respect very much, to proceed with the distribution. If the CFP is against the workers of the Assembly of the Republic, once again, the mask falls, and you know which side the CFP is on. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u166	The honourable Member is distressed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a little more serenity so that we can hear ourselves. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The speech and strategy that the majority here presented was an act of political cowardice, not only of political cowardice but also of desisting. And I say why she's cowardice. It is cowardly because it is worth your position through fear, that is, it says that if privatization does not happen, TAP goes to the dock. It's the fear of no money, but there's money for tax bills to the New Bank. It's cowardly because it strikes the workers who want to defend the TAP as a scapegoat. All your position is defended with cowardly,... [[PSD protests.]] ... cowardice of those who no longer have arguments to defend what they want and of those who do not really want to admit what they want to do, which is to turn TAP into private interests. But it is not only cowardice because it plays with the fear of people, it is not only cowardice because it wants to put the citizens against the workers who want to defend their company and because it blames the strikes of all the evils of this world, it is also desisting, because they have given up the maintenance of the country's strategic centers, they have given up sovereignty, they have given up from the future of Portugal and they only see the private business ahead. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u169	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u170	It is regrettable that the position they have taken here was not a rational debate about your strategic options for the country, about why they defend private TAP, and have come here with cowardly arguments to justify a position that is unjustifiable and that is of country withdrawal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u171	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor, which does not have much time, so I ask him to make the best use of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u172	Mr President, I do not need much time because I just want to confirm the policy of rigour, repeated words, unceasingly, by Dr. António Costa, to remind the Socialist Party that on 15 November 2007 the Secretary of State of the Treasure Costa Pina, the same as saying that he was not heard in the business of VEM in Brazil — but this is another matter —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u173	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u174	... said the following : « The Government will privatize in the next two years the companies that were in the Privatization Programme for the biennium 2006 and 2007 that have not yet moved forward, i.e. TAP, Inapa, ANA — Airports de Portugal ». Mr President, it is true that you opened the hunt to vote and, when the hunt begins to vote, there are soon two casualties on the side of the Socialist Party: coherence and responsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u175	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We were already waiting, but we are always sorry that you are. Members of the majority, and not only, have been unable to say a word about the concrete proposals presented by the CFP to the TAP as solutions for the company's defence. You noted that there are no alternatives beyond privatization and that is why you were afraid to discuss the concrete issues presented by the CFP in a new project, I repeat, in a new project, Mr. Members, who, of course, have not read, did not want to know or have to forget quickly, because it is the concrete proof that there is no alternative lie, it is the concrete proof that it is necessary to defend the TAP, not giving it to the private, as they wanted to do with Swissair in the Guterres Government, as they wanted to do with Mr Efromovich in this government. It must be said here that, whatever happens, the truth is that this process already has very serious costs for TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u177	Now! Millions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u178	... when you see the instability that caused the company, when you see the firewall about the TAP and the critical information for its activity and operation, which was provided to the competitors but was refused to Parliament. It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that, for the worse, is enough. For worse, that's enough! What is needed is to stop with the privatisation of TAP. And we do not want this discussion of privatizing the company in this or that way; what we need is to stop privatization and prevent it from happening. The two things this government has to do are very simple: cancel privatisation and leave, once and for all! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u179	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate on draft resolution No 1150 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of petitions Nos 454 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 460 / XII ( 4. ( a ), draft resolution No 1472 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of Bill No 902 / XII ( 4. ( a ), in general and draft resolution No 1479 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). I ask the parliamentary groups whether there will be consensus to proceed then with the vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u180	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u181	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u182	Mr President, I just want to point out that there is no problem on the part of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u183	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u184	from the PS Parliamentary Group, there is no problem either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u185	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u186	Mr President, what I wanted to point out to the Bureau was that we now did the votes, but that we could also vote on the IRS project.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u187	So I will announce the last item on our agenda, which is scheduled without time for debate and then we will proceed to the vote. I refer to Bill No. 957 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ), to which no time has been allocated for discussion and which will be subsequently voted on. [[At the moment, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 195 meetings, to which 6 are added, by 201 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting on vote No 281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Germano da Silva Domingos ( PSD and PS ), which will be read by Mrs Paula Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u189	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Germano da Silva Domingos was a Member of the Constituent Assembly and then also to the Assembly of the Republic, in I, II and VI Legislatures, elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Born on the island of Pico, as a family formerly linked to whale activity, he did the secondary studies, successively, in the high schools of Horta, Angra do Heroísmo and Ponta Delgada. Civil engineer, trained at the Higher Technical Institute, Lisbon, completed the military service in Guinea to the post of captain and then had business activity in the area of construction and public works, with such relief that he came to be decorated as Commander of the Industrial Merit Order by President Ramalho Eanes, in 1982. He was Regional Secretary for Agriculture and Fisheries in the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores between 1976 and 1979 and Regional Secretary for Public Works in the Third Government between 1984 and 1988. The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores thanked him in 2007 with the Self-Recognition Insignia. Even away from public responsibilities, he always maintained a great interest in politics and a vital commitment to the autonomy and development of the Azores, of which he was a worker of the first hour. Regretting its death on 6 May, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to such a distinct personality and addresses its family and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which has served, in a dedicated manner, condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 285 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Nobre Franco ( PS and PSD ), who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u191	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with regret and dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of Maria Nobre Franco, last May 20th. Luminosa, rigorous, passionate, delicate and cosmopolitan, as gallerist, curator and first director of the Berardo Museum, Maria Nobre Franco had an essential role in the affirmation of contemporary Portuguese art and was pioneer in the creation of an art market in Portugal. He was born on 14 December 1938, in Messejana, and graduated in classical Philology and Art Philosophy by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, a citizen of firm convictions and anti-fascist resistance, Maria Nobre Franco moved to Paris in 1962 with her first husband, sociologist José Carlos Ferreira de Almeida, after being arrested by PIDE, for signing a letter addressed to Oliveira Salazar, in a protest for the murder of painter José Dias Coelho. In 1965, when his only son was born, filmmaker Bruno Almeida returns to Portugal, beginning a career in advertising in ICESA / NKK as creative director, being responsible for important advertising campaigns and numerous films. Married in second weddings with Rui Valentim de Carvalho, she founded in 1984 in the Palace of the Alcáçovas, the EMI Art Gallery Valentim de Carvalho, one of the fundamental galleries of the artistic context of the 80s and 90s, for dedicating herself to contemporary art. Through it artists such as Jorge Martins, Mário Cesariny, René Bértholo, Joaquim Bravo, António Palolo, Helena Almeida, Angelo de Sousa, Alberto Carneiro or José Escada among many others. But it is in the promotion of a new generation of creators that Maria Nobre Franco most reveals her extraordinary sensitivity and intuition, promoting artists such as José Pedro Croft, Pedro Calapez, Ana Jotta, Rui Sanches, Xana or the group of homeoesthetics. In 1994, he left the gallery to advise Vítor Constâncio in Lisbon 94 — European Capital of Culture and in 1997 he took the lead of the Sintra Museum of Modern Art — Berardo Collection. Always moved by generosity out of the ordinary, organizes a series of exhibitions where it crosses, with intelligence and boldness, several generations of artists, national and foreign. It is by your hand that anthological exhibitions dedicated to Rui Chafes and Júlio Pomar, Michael Craig-Martin, Susana Solano or Fernando Lemos are organized. Maria Nobre Franco needed to live surrounded by art and beauty, having created a remarkable personal collection that includes, in addition to works by almost all the artists with whom she at one time worked, works of Vieira da Silva, Arpad Szenes, Julião Sarmento, Álvaro Lapa or Eduardo Batarda, among others. But Maria Nobre Franco also had the passion for cinema, having even used her inexhaustible energy to actively help several filmmakers of the New Cinema in the 1960s and 1970s, such as Fernando Lopes. In 2005, it is decorated by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio with the Order of Infante D. Henrique. In 2007, when the Berardo Collection moves to the Cultural Centre of Belém, it leaves the Museum and is appointed representative of the City Hall of Lisbon at the Arpad Szenes / Vieira da Silva Foundation, being still administrator of the Giulio Pomar Foundation until 2013. Remembering Maria Nobre Franco is to remember an tireless and courageous woman, who spread life and charm, intelligence and joy, who understood her time and devoted her whole life to Portuguese art and artists who so much admired and without whom she could not live because, according to her own words, "the important thing is to create, have ideas. Human expression is transmitted by art». The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Maria Nobre Franco, sending condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u192	Despite the death of Maria Nobre Franco ( PS and PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote vote No 286 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Antonio Galhordas ( PCP ), whose reading will be made by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u193	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 13th, at 83 years of age, Antonio Galhordas. Doctor, a prominent figure in the democratic opposition to the fascist and professional dictatorship of recognized merits, was a courageous and determined man who engaged his life in the struggle for a more just society. In 1953, he joined the progressive list that won the elections for the Association of Students of the School of Medicine of Lisbon, which resulted in the closure of the Association's headquarters by the PIDE. In 1957, he played an important role in the struggle of the movement that led to the publication of the Report on Medical Careers, including the leading bodies of the Medical Order until 25 April 1974. António Galhordas had intense political participation during fascism, was an important member of the CDE, playing in this framework a courageous and qualified intervention in the fight for freedom and democracy. After April 25, Antonio Galhordas was Secretary of State of Health of the 15th. the Provisional Government, Member of the CDM Political Committee and Member of the Assembly of the Republic. He was elected to the Portel Municipal Assembly and his President during various mandates. He was also head of the Voice of the Workers. He participated in the electoral coalitions FEPU, APU and CDU, and joined the CFP in 2001. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 22 May 2015, expresses its condolences to the family of Antonio Galhordas. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u194	Despite the death of Antonio Galhordas ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Elza Maria Pires Chambel ( PS, PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Maria Paula Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u195	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret and dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death last May 19, of Elza Maria Pires Chambel, President of the National Council for the Promotion of Volunteers. Born on February 10, 1936 in Rio de Janeiro, Elza Maria Pires Chambel spent her childhood in Trás-os-Montes, looking later in Santarém, where she was going to marry and see her family grow. He graduated in law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra. It is with admiration that your fellow students remember Elza Chambel as a fellow always concerned about people, the weakest, the weakest, the most unprotected, with whom he distributed study and leisure times during the years he spent in Coimbra, making voluntary in the peripheral neighborhoods, solving problems, looking for solutions. It was also in Coimbra, at the Theatre of Students of the University of Coimbra, who, according to his words, woke up for the exercise of citizenship and had a good school of democracy. He began his professional activity as a notary conservative. He passed through Aljezur and Barrancos until he settled in Santarém, where he served as notary, as head of the box of Providence and Family Abbot of the district of Santarém and later as district director of social security of Santarém. Elza Chambel always had a story to tell about each place he had passed, marked by altruism and audacity. Militant of the Socialist Party since 1974, Elza Chambel was the first president of the Board of Freguesia of São Salvador democratically elected and integrated the Municipal Assembly of Santarém. She was also Commissioner of the National Programme to Combat Poverty, expert of international organizations responsible for the development of cooperation programmes with several Portuguese-speaking countries, member of the European Social Action Network, volunteering consultant for national and international organisations and national coordinator of the European Volunteer Year. In 2012 she was thanked by the President of the Republic with the Order of Merit. throughout his life, Elza Chambel reaffirmed himself in the exercise of citizenship as a public servant, always fighting for the rights and dignity of the human person. Since July 2002 she has chaired the National Council for the Promotion of Volunteering since 2006. Until the last days of his life, Elza Chambel remained faithful to a way of living in solidarity, and for those with whom he had the happiness of living, a remarkable example of humility, courage, and verticality. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret over the death of Elza Maria Pires Chambel, expressing its dismay to all the volunteers and organizations in which it has developed its work and sends condolences to its family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u196	Despite the death of Elza Maria Pires Chambel ( PS, PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after all these votes have been voted on, I would ask that we keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Bureau also addresses families who are present in the galleries at this time with their feelings of regret. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the vote on vote No 282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Greetings by 50. the anniversary of the award of the novelist award of the Portuguese Society of Writers to the book Luuanda, by José Luandino Vieira ( PCP ), which will be read by Ms. Secretary, Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u197	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In May 1965, precisely 50 years ago, the Portuguese Society of Writers awarded the Grand Prize of Novelistics to the book Luuanda, of Luandino Vieira, which was imprisoned in Tarrafal to serve a 14-year prison sentence decreed by the fascist authorities for alleged terrorist activities in Angola. Luandino Vieira participated with other intellectuals in preparing a document for the future bases of a new Angola. The leadership of the Portuguese Writing Society, chaired by Jacinto do Prado Coelho, on which various pressures were exercised to revoke the jury's decision, maintained exemplary firmness. The members of the jury who awarded the prize, Alexandre Pinheiro Torres, Augusto Abelaira, Fernanda Botelho and Manuel da Fonseca, were questioned by the PIDE, having been the first two and last detained at the orders of that political police. on the very night of May 21, 1965, for 22 hours, the headquarters of the Portuguese Society of Writers, on the street of the Polytechnic School, was robbed and looted by bands of “unknown”, supported by elements of the PIDE and the Portuguese Legion. in the News Daily on May 22, in “Last News”, the following could be read: “The attackers began to post, at one of the entrance gates, a disticulum where they could read ‘ terrorist agencies in the metropolis. ’ in the various rooms, on the walls, there are still other phrases. One of them: ‘ Branch MPLA’. All the furniture was completely destroyed, damaged doors and windows, broken framed lamps, typewriters and unused files.” From there, a repressive and defamatory campaign was launched against the writer, the award-winning work, the jury and the Portuguese Writing Society. No material repair act returned SPE's estate. No gesture of moral reparation established the enormous offense inflicted on the dignity of the professionals in the literature. Only in 1973, after an intense and courageous struggle by the Portuguese writers, could it be possible to constitute the Portuguese Association of Writers which succeeded the Society, extinct in 1965, but which was still prevented from using its name. In 1965, José Luandino Vieira represented, with his political action and his literary creation, the Angolan nation that was being born. The Portuguese writers, with their courageous attitude, gave expression to the struggle of the Portuguese people for freedom and democracy, against Portuguese fascism and colonialism. History would be right for them. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 23 May 2015 : 1 — Sign it 50. the anniversary of the award of the Nobel Prize to the book Luuanda, by José Luandino Vieira, by the Portuguese Society of Writers. 2 — Honor the leadership of the Portuguese Writing Society and the members of the jury of the 1965 Novelistic Prize for the act of civic courage that their attitude represented and as a witness to the struggle of Portuguese intellectuals and peoples for freedom and democracy, against fascism and colonial domination. 3 — Greet the Portuguese Association of Writers as worthy successor of the Society violently extinct in 1965. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u198	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 282 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 283 / XII ( 4 ) is still to be held. ( a ) — Greetings in memory of Timorese victims in World War II ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u199	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In these days Europe celebrates 70. the anniversary of the end of World War II and the victory of the allied forces over the axis powers. This celebration has echoed not only in Europe but throughout the world. These commemorations always awaken the need to remind the victims of the Holocaust and recognize this as one of the blackest pages in human history. Although Europe has been the epicenter of this human catastrophe and where the largest number of deaths — 21 million — have occurred, the Pacific has also not escaped the devastation of the World War. in reality, the Timorese victims who lost their lives in the Pacific Campaign are rarely remembered. It is estimated that more than 40 000 Timorese will have died during the Japanese occupation. In fact, during the period 1939 to 1946, according to official figures, the population of East Timor — part administered by Portugal — actually decreased from 472 000 to 403 000. After World War II, Timor’s reconstruction has moved slowly, but it will forever become crucial in the memory of the Timorese people the effects of the ‘black columns’ and the reprisals of the occupying forces. in this sense, at the time when Timor-Leste signs the 13 years of independence, the Assembly of the Republic, considering the deep historical relations that Portugal has always maintained with its sister country, Timor-Leste, not only hails the 70 years of the end of World War II, as it recalls, so that history does not repeat itself again, the Timorese victims who have lost their lives during this period. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u200	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 330 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of ourseries and contrasts. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We now vote for the 2013 General State Account. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 317 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Creates the National Health Professional Inventory. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u201	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u202	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u203	Madam President, with regard to the last vote, I would like to inform you that the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u204	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote on draft resolution No 1469 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the municipalization of education and defends the universality of public school and compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System ( PCP ). Mrs. Members, the PSD requests that paragraph 2 of the draft resolution be voted on separately. Thus, we shall begin by voting point 2 of draft resolution No 1469 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote on the remaining points of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — at the end of the deresponsibility of the State and the municipalisation of education ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 1476 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consensus against municipalisation of schools and for school autonomy ( BE ). The PS also asked for a separate vote on point 2 of this draft resolution. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1470 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes the reintroduction of the previous Basic Education Mathematics Programme and the advertising of their evaluation results ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1474 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension and consequent reassessment of the Mathematics A programme for secondary education ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1477 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of the application of the Mathematics A programme — 2014 ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1461 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of procedures for the granting of caulinos in Soure and Pombal ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1465 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Immediate suspension and non-assignment of a caulinus operating licence in the area of Bonitos, Soure Town Hall ( PCP ) [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1488/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the area of Bonitos ( Soure and Redinha) free from the exploitation of caulinos ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u206	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u207	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD and CDS-PP Members elected by the Leiria and Coimbra electoral circle will send a vote to the Bureau on the vote on these last three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u208	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote, in general, on Bill No 326 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity as well as the procedural regimes applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive 2009 / 138 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 328 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as a flag State or port, with a view to the fulfilment of mandatory provisions of the International Labour Organisation Maritime Convention, 2006, and transposes Council Directives 1999 / 63 / EC of 21 June 1999, 2009 / 13 / EC of 16 February 2009, 2012 / 35 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012, and 2013 / 54 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1448 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the fundamental role of the ACT through the opening of an invitation to tender for Labour Inspectors, in compliance with the ILO ( PS ) Conventions. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1475 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of inspectors, strengthening of means and valuing the role of ACT ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1150 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — the defence, development and public management of TAP as a national flag airline ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1472 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Immediate cancellation of the privatisation process of TAP ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 902 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure TAP as a public undertaking ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1479 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the defence of TAP ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u209	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u210	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u211	Madam President, it is only to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on all TAP projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u212	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary Duarte Pacheco, tells me that draft resolutions Nos 1478 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — by promoting personal autonomy / independent life of persons with disabilities ( BE) and 1471 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates a pilot programme for a « Support for Independent Life » scheme for people with aggravated disabilities ( PCP ), in the vote script, will not be voted on today because they have not yet been discussed. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 957 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's now vote on the same bill in the specialty. As requested by the CFP, we shall vote separately on Article 78 ( 7 ). o-C of the IRS Code as amended by Article 2. the draft law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u213	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u214	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u215	Madam President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now vote on the remaining issues of Bill No 957 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No 957 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, extending the scope of the deduction of health expenses ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u217	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u218	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u219	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last votes on Bill No 957 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1019 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — To reverse the tendency to reduce personnel, outsourcing and loss of services in the maintenance, repair and construction of railways ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We will now vote in general on Bill No. 880 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legalizes the cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption and creates the legal framework for the canabis social clubs ( BE) which had downloaded to their committee without a vote. [[Submitted to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP were rejected, votes in favour of BE and the members of PS Elza Pais, Gabriela Canavilhas, Isabel Alves Moreira, João Galamba, João Paulo Pedrosa, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, Paulo Campos, Pedro Delgado Alves, Pedro Nuno Santos and Vieira da Silva and abstentions from PS and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members are followed by the vote on an application by the PSD and the CDS-PP for a full vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to Article 6. o ( Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September) of Bill No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public professional schools, within the framework of non-prior education, introducing clarifications in their respective schemes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As a result of the approval of the application, a debate period is now open, each two-minute parliamentary group available for this purpose, relating to the proposal submitted by the PS, amending Article 6. the proposal of Law No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a). First of all, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, legislative acts should as a rule be general and abstract, i.e. they should address an indeterminable number of recipients and an indeterminable number of situations. This was exactly the first circumstance that motivated this solicitation requirement. in fact, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the indicative vote — and it is also important here to highlight the indicative nature of the vote — we have noted that the legislative amendment now avoked was intended to apply to a very specific and specific case, not referred to by the proposers, namely the Union of Fregues of the Historic Centre of Porto. This knowledge comes from publication in a national newspaper of the true and sole recipient of the legislative amendment, which consequently assumes itself as a law-measured, general and abstract, when it is intended for only one specific case. A single concrete case equal to many others which, over the past eight years, have been resolved; a single concrete case which deserves our concern, which deserves our attention and which, it is very important to say, is in the process of being resolved; finally, a single concrete case, the outcome of which has been pointed out by the legislative amendment accruing, in its operationalization, unplanned budgetary consequences, a possible revision of the Law of Commitments and, no less important, the assumption of unequal treatment. Everything is all reasons that, in our view, they not only justify how this demand for counsel and, consequently, the change in our sense of indicative vote. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u222	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are stunned and the PS does not want to believe what is happening here today, because it is not just a PSD zigzag, it is a real reel that the majority of PSD/CDS has just given in this plenary. last week, they voted in favour, in committee, this amendment proposal and now here they are promoting a reversal of their position.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u224	It's explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u225	This majority is equal to itself: one position one day, opposite position the next day. It is this majority equal to itself, a majority drifting, without north and without direction. It was not a promise made, like others that we have already been used to failing, that was a compromise that they made, in committee, with their vote. It was not a failed election promise, it was a compromise taken in a committee vote that failed to honour. This majority has already lost their shame and ended this unhonored legislature. Only divergences within the Government can be a factor in this amendment. This is no longer a government, it is a summary of rulers in disintegration. Who can trust this majority, who systematically changes their positions one day to the other? This amendment, contrary to what has been said, is neutral, from the budgetary point of view does not imply any expenditure, it is a proposal of great social significance and, on the other hand, it is a proposal which does not refer exclusively to one case, it refers to several cases by the country. Therefore, the arguments presented here are fallacious. Only the surrender to private interests justifies this change in the position of the majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u226	Mr José Lino Ramos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: agreeing, of course, with the arguments presented here by the PSD around this request, it is worth saying that the relevance of the discussion of this articulation and of the proposal presented by the PS around it, says a lot, I would say, enough of what is the social policy of the Socialist Party. In addition to wanting to legislate the measure, according to Mr Renato Sampaio himself, the Socialist Party, with this proposal, intends to return to its model of solving the most known problems: it does not matter if there is no sustainability, if there are duplications, if there are redundancy, if there are other entities more prepared to manage the public and social service and, above all, more prepared to serve the citizens; for the PS the solution is to postpone the problem and, if not to delay, as in the specific case, money is thrown to the problems, because we all know that socialism lasts until the money of others is finished. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not solve a problem by adding to it more problems, in fact, an inherited problem which has been solved over time by this government. We do not guarantee a reliable and efficient social response, as it is deserved, if we intend to do so with the same model that led us to a social response without sustainability and, above all, without the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u229	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u230	Freguesias, which have an important role in our social fabric, can promote new mechanisms of action and different strategies of action. The efforts of different entities with social intervention should be combined and the responses that exist locally should be optimized. It is important to innovate in the implementation of social policy measures, to support an effective and future change. But from the parish, Mr. Members do not expect the citizens, the Portuguese, who often compete in an unfair manner and replace the initiatives of social solidarity institutions. It is not intended or required to double efforts and, with them, costs, it is not intended or required to replace the work of third sector entities, IPSS, mercy, local development associations or cooperatives of social solidarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u231	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u232	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u233	the social responses await the Portuguese sustainability and efficiency. And what the Socialist Party wants, in this case, is a social model without efficiency and without sustainability. A model that, instead of promoting integrated social support networks at local level, will help to activate and leverage the means and agents that are at the forefront of the social response to local needs. It was now intended, again, that a particular parish, except for financial aid, should be intended to operate in competition with the other social responses. That is not the objective of social responses, that is not what the Portuguese expect from social responses, expect efficiency and sustainability, and there is no sustainability in the proposal presented by the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u234	To call on the Bureau, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u235	Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau to arrange for the distribution to the Chamber of news which came out in the Newspaper on 18 May 2015, where Mr Renato Sampaio himself assumes that this is a law-measure. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u236	But it was before!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u237	You now have the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we have missed this advocacy by the PSD and the CDS and now we have checked a back-to-face here. But, in this speech, I wanted to make three references, the first of which the CFP voted against this proposal in committee, in the specialty process. And voted against precisely because it pursues a goal of municipalization of social areas, which we cannot follow. In practice, this is what we have been referring to: a deresponsibility on the part of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u239	It's called decentralization!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u240	... of those who are their responsibilities, in this particular case, to ensure the social responses to the Portuguese in our country. Therefore, this PS proposal and the proposals which the PSD and the CDS have been putting forward, with regard to municipalization, do not differ from one another, on the contrary they go in exactly the same direction: transferring problems to the authorities, problems that the government has not solved, with its respective charges. These are indeed proposals that do not aim at guaranteeing universal rights, such as these, related to social areas. The second question I wanted to mention was that if this proposal had the objective of resolving a specific case, the fact is that it does not resolve. And it does not resolve, because it does not guarantee the jobs that are at stake here, it does not guarantee the rights of the workers who are at stake here. If the aim was to solve the jobs, the proposal would not allow new protocols to be concluded in the future, what already existed would be contrary. What the Socialist Party's proposal proposes is that for those who exist, or for others, the objective of municipalization policies can be opened, with which we cannot follow. Thirdly, and I shall conclude, Madam President: it is neither with the Socialist Party's proposal nor with the PSD and CDS proposals that address these concrete problems of social responses to the population. What should indeed happen was that the government should assume its responsibilities, assume the responsibilities in the management of public equipment both in the area of childhood and in the area of the elderly, or in other areas which are essential in the support of the populations. But this government does not; on the contrary, it closes equipment, privatizes equipment and now comes with the aim of municipalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u241	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u242	The CFP, in this concrete aspect, advocates that social equipment is managed directly by the government, ensuring all jobs and workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u243	You now have the floor to Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, when it voted on this rule and this proposal in particular, in the field of expertise, in the Commission, did so thinking of the law, in abstract, and foreseeing situations that may exist. That is always the principle we follow. We have an interpretation of this norm that makes it easier, perhaps, for many municipalities or parishes to be able to establish protocols of cooperation with the State and the public institutes — underlining, with the State and the public institutes — to solve or carry out projects in the social field. None of this seems complicated and may well happen in certain circumstances. In fact, the rule is very clear when it refers to 'exceptionally' for solving the problems of the population. Different thing is what brought us today, here, the PSD. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but say that the PSD is here today outraged, because it seems to us that it was a controversy that was completely different from us — the proposal for a change was to legislate 'as usual' and that this would never be done in life by the PSD. Well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but still last week we voted here in accordance with the tax exemption for the New Bank, at a value that will be at least EUR 85 million! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, this is not worth the argument! This argument, in the face of the national scandal that was this legislation « tailor-made», does not collect and you should not use it. It is also not very normal for lawyers to be presented to change the votes. Mr President, the Left Block does not favor legislation 'to the extent' and believes that this is a general rule that can be applied in the future. Therefore, in consistency, it will maintain the same sense of vote of the specialty in committee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u245	The Bureau no longer registers, so we proceed to the special vote on proposal 4 - C, tabled by the PS, amending Article 6. the proposal of Law No 313 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of the PS and BE were rejected with votes against the PS.]] [[It was as follows:]] [[Article 6 Amendment to Law No 73/2013 of 3 September Articles 22 and 54 of Law No 73/2013 of 12 September as amended by Law No 82-D/2014 of 31 December 2014 are replaced by the following: ‘Article 22... 1 —................................................................................................................................................................... 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph and on an exceptional basis, municipalities and parish and the State and public institutions may conclude financial cooperation protocols with a view to pursuing specific interests in social areas, as provided for in paragraph 6 of this Article. 3 — (Previous paragraph 2). 4 — (Previous paragraph 3). 5 — (Previous paragraph 4). 6 — (Previous paragraph 5). 7 — (Previous paragraph 6). 8 — (Previous paragraph 7). 9 — (Previous paragraph 8). 10 — (Previous paragraph 9). Article 54....................................................................................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u246	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u247	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u248	Madam President, I would just like to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of a number of other PSD Members elected by the electoral circle in Porto, I will present a vote on the subject of the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote in the special session on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, concerning the final indexary text submitted by the same Commission, on the proposal for a law No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land and Local Power, on the proposal for a law No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August 2012 establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations, to the second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial regime for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, to the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime for inter-municipal entities and for local associations, to the first amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August 2014 approving the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund, and to the first amendment to Decree-Law No 92 / 2014 of 20 June establishing the legal regime for private and public professional schools, within the framework of non-prior education, introducing clarifications in their respective schemes. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u250	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u251	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u252	Madam President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote we just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u254	I would also like to take the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u255	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u256	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this matter and this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u257	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on the proposal for a law No 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production plants from renewable energy sources. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land and Local Power, on draft law No 829 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September, which establishes the exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and defines the terms applicable to the regularization of urban areas of illegal genesis during the period established therein ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u258	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u259	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u260	Madam President, it is to announce that we will also present a statement of vote on the diploma we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u261	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on draft law No 871 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code by introducing a 50 % vehicle tax exemption for large families ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Members are also in favour of paragraphs 34 to 67 of the Journal, concerning plenary meetings of 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 28, 29 and 30 January, 4, 5, 6, 11, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26 and 27 February and 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26 and 27 March. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u262	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u263	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u264	Madam President, I would like to correct the vote of the PS Parliamentary Group on draft resolution No 1469 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Rejects the municipalization of education and defends the universality of public school and compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System ( PCP ), within which we have empowered the vote of paragraph 2. At the time, we indicated the sense of vote on abstention, but in relation to point 2, the PS votes in favour and, in relation to points 1 and 3, abstains.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u265	The meaning of the PS shall be rectified. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to vote on two opinions from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, so I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to take account of those opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Office for Legal Affairs and Notary Affairs of the City Council of Sintra, Disciplinary Case No 94 / 2015, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Lino Ramos ( CDS-PP ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u267	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by the Cable and Criminal Section of the Central Court of Bragança, Case No 11 / 11.0TBCRZ, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote, so we will resume our agenda with the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 1478 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by promoting personal autonomy / independent life of persons with disabilities ( BE) and 1471 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates a pilot programme for a « Independent Life Support scheme » for people with aggravated disabilities ( PCP ). Mrs. Members, the Bureau records the registration of the Members. Members Helena Pinto, of the Left Block, David Costa, of the PCP, Raúl de Almeida, of the CDS-PP, and Idália Serrão, of the PS. To present draft resolution No 1478 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When Portugal ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2009 it made a commitment that goes far beyond a formal act — a commitment that guarantees the equal rights of persons with disabilities. And for this to happen, public policies are required that respond to the specific needs of these same people. The draft resolution presented by the Left Block today addresses a fundamental issue: public policies should promote personal autonomy and the independent life of people with disabilities. This should be the principle and foundation of public policies. This is also the guarantee of equal rights. Only in this way will we comply with the convention we have ratified, where it is well expressed, and I quote: «the right of personal decision in the definition and conduct of their lives». People with disabilities have no autonomy to carry out a set of tasks that are essential to their daily lives, but they have the ability and right to choose those who want to help them overcome these same difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u272	Independent life is the new paradigm that leaves behind the care model that favours, in the overwhelming majority of situations, institutionalization. If we meet the value of the State's participation in case of institutionalization, which is 951, 53 €, and the value of the benefit for assistance by third person, which is 88, 37 €, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear to all of us that institutionalisation is a priority. We know that the problems are many. We cannot address everyone today: insufficient and long-term technical assistance; the value of social pension due to disability; difficulties in teaching; the lack of conditions for young people with disabilities at various levels of education; limited access to the gestual language; non-compliance with quotas in access to employment, including public employment; high unemployment rates; architectural barriers; and much more. But today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose that we concentrate on taking a first step, but an important step, recommending to the Government that it integrates the principles of personal autonomy, independent life, into public policies, contemplating the right to direct payment for the choice and recruitment of the assistance needed to meet their needs, as well as the implementation of pilot projects that aim to increase autonomy and quality of life, involving associations and movements that represent people with disabilities and that so many contributions have made. Our life in our hands is your motto. No more, no less: Our life in our hands. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Miranda Calha was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u273	To present draft resolution No 1471 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr David Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is presenting today a proposal for the creation of a pilot programme for the support of independent life for people with aggravated disabilities. Those who contact this specific reality know that people with disabilities, with high degrees of disability and who need permanent and daily support for the most varied daily tasks are in a condition of unacceptable social disprotection. We refer to people who, in addition to all physical and motor limitations, cannot maintain a degree of autonomy that allows them a truly independent life, so they need a third person for the most basic tasks, such as food, personal hygiene, dress themselves or simply move. However, existing social support is clearly insufficient and particularly in the case of persons with disabilities who are employed or seeking employment on their condition is a complete deprotection, i.e. they are without any form of support by the State. And all of this happens with the knowledge of the governmental majority PSD / CDS, which resigns itself from the resolution of this problem of people with disabilities and with aggravated disabilities who need a third person who cares for them. Several times, within the framework of the work of the Assembly of the Republic, all parliamentary groups have been and are confronted with direct and indirect contacts of persons with disabilities who, because they are unable to hire a third person who assists them, are institutionalized. However, this type of institutionalization of people with disabilities in homes of elderly people or other social equipment, besides more expensive, is deeply inhuman and does not offer these people the dignity and the answers to which they are entitled, in the light of the Constitution of the Republic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to provide an answer, find a solution to this problem. Today there are several examples of disabled people who, just needing someone to take care of themselves for a few hours a day, have been forced to leave their homes, are away from their friends and family, and are confined to an institution 24 hours a day. Interpreting the legitimate expectations and needs to respond to this whole context, an independent life support scheme is the proposal of the CFP that, to be approved, will improve the self-esteem and confidence of the disabled person and encourage the development of more innovative, flexible and personalized support systems and services; it will relieve the pressure on family members and other informal providers that in many situations prevent the development of professional activity; and also, and very important, it will provide people with more opportunities for full participation in the economic and social life of the community. in its own housing, with conditions of independence and autonomy, promoting the inclusion in the professional life of people with disabilities, the PCP proposes to create a pilot program, in joint and with the involvement of organizations of people with disabilities, which aims to define the objectives, criteria, types of response, amount of support, nature of support and procedures of future social support for independent life for people with aggravated disability and with reduced autonomy. We also propose the creation of a pilot service of personal assistants with training in various areas, including healthcare for hygiene and personal care, household tasks and social services, such as support in employment, access to sports equipment, culture and leisure and the development of social life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u275	Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u276	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed these two draft resolutions today, which I have heard and read very carefully and I can say, for example, to Mrs Helena Pinto — and I was counting on time — that until 2 minutes and 15 seconds I subscribe to all that I have said. It's true! In fact, the motto that has brought, Our life in our hands, is a true, important and must be consistent. We can no longer agree with the principles that guided these two draft resolutions, but the question—and the honourable Member said and well—this path that has been made to help, to bring about equality, which we all want, to people with disabilities is an endless path and in which there is still much to do. That is why our obligation as parliamentarians — of all of us — is not just of the opposition groups or groups that support the government — is to innovate with consequence and with responsibility and bring here feasible policies that can help these people better project their future. What you bring today and ask for makes sense. And it makes so much sense that the government is doing so. The government has set out very clearly to support and encourage the experimentation of innovative projects. It has been very clearly the guidance of this government in this area, an activity in dialogue and proximity with the organizations representing people with disabilities that has allowed the exercise of decision-making and the opportunity to experiment with innovative interventions that respond to the emerging needs of people with disabilities. That is what you are asking for in your draft resolution. It's being done. The new intervention approaches that refer to the concept of independent life constitute a priority axis of the Government and is implemented in a set of measures of the new Community framework — Portugal 2020 — to POISE ( Operational Programme Social Inclusion and Employment ), clearly. Since the end of 2013 the Ministry has been dynamizing and cooperating with the representative organizations of the sector, with all those that have been available, for the structuring of the provision of service of personal assistants for people with disabilities. There is also a training pilot project for personal assistants for people with disabilities and disabilities. It is not something done in any way, it is competent, trained and able to help these people. The definition of the professional profile of the disabled person's personal assistant was validated by 11 organizations representing the sector and will give rise to a new profession. in the context of Portugal 2020, the Operational Programme Social Inclusion and Employment is the instrument that will leverage the realization of interventions that favour the autonomy of people with disabilities in their context of life, being the support provided on a territorial basis as an alternative to institutionalization. It can't be clearer. Also in the Operational Programme Social Inclusion and Employment, personal assistance provides for the creation of services and fellowships of community-based personal assistants to support people with disabilities and disabilities in their activities of daily life and social participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u277	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u278	And I conclude, Mr. President. It is important to see that this covers all the activities of the person’s life. The specific regulation of the field of social inclusion and employment, Ordinance No. 97 -A / 2015 of 30 March, is published on the website www.portugal2020.pt, so the Communist Party and the Left Block could and should read what it represents, which is consistent, because the proposals made today do not constitute any novelty in this area. We welcome the concern, it is legitimate and serious. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u279	So they're going to vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u280	No, Mrs. Deputy, because it's superintendent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u281	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u282	The question is: let's innovate, let's propose with innovation and responsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u283	For an intervention, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To give conditions to people with disabilities who live in the community, to allow them to make choices equal to others are conditions enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which was signed in 2009 by the Portuguese State and subsequently ratified. These are issues not only of social justice, but also of promoting equal opportunities. While the need to develop institutional reception responses, which respond to the problem of families, which respond to the problems of people with disabilities themselves, is clear also the need to develop responses that promote living conditions with autonomy for the citizens. These are different issues for different problems, for different needs and, therefore, are both approaches that need to be developed within the framework of public policies for disability, as mentioned above. Citizens with disabilities are entitled to a life with conditions of autonomy and are entitled to an independent life. There are many people with disabilities who have access to the labour market and who, due to lack of conditions of autonomy, cannot do so, are limited. They cannot be contributors to the system, they will be everlasting beneficiaries, because so are the public policies that are developed in this sense, that is to say, that they are everlasting beneficiaries and that they can never be contributors and this is a bad principle. What these two diplomas bring to the discussion is, of course, direct funding to people with disabilities and the possibility of choosing their personal assistant. And these are both principles with which we agree. In addition, the Socialist Party has a history of developing measures to promote the autonomy of persons with disabilities who are included in two strategic documents. I recall the Action Plan for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities or Disabilities and the National Strategy for Disability that are strategic documents and whose evaluation and implementation have been abandoned, contrary to what Mr. Raúl de Almeida of the CDS-PP said here. We are at the end of the legislature and we do not know what is the strategy of the government and of the parties of the majority for the disabled, for the families of the disabled and for the disability in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u285	You don't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u286	We have known a set of far-reaching measures, Mr President, we do not know the strategy. In addition, we do not know how the Government considers the role of people with disabilities, representative organisations and service providers to people with disabilities, in defining a strategy for disability in Portugal and in building new responses. I recall that in October 2013 a citizen with severe limitations of mobility, but with conditions and with a desire to have a life with autonomy, started a hunger strike in an articulated bed at the end of Parliament's stairways. at that time, so that this and all other citizens would abandon this form of struggle that they brought here was told by the government, to this and the other citizens who were standing here, that by the end of January 2014 the government would start the work to shortly approve a bill on independent life. So far neither the disabled nor the families nor the Portuguese know anything about this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u287	Would you like to conclude, Mrs. Depurata?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u288	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, given the autonomy to be decisive in defining the living conditions of people with disabilities, we believe that the creation of these mechanisms is essential so that they can have dignified living conditions and, fundamentally, that they can be contributors to the system and not everlasting beneficiaries, which is why you continue to drag them down. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u289	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the interventions we have heard earlier, we all understand that in many things we agree, and still well, because we are here talking about people with disabilities and their needs. in this area, I think there must be a great effort by all parties not to politicize this subject but, yes, we will respond to the needs that these people have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u291	We all know that Portugal was in line with the signing of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and that this Parliament ratified that signature, which is in Article 19. the, very clearly, refers to that disabled people have the right to choose their place of residence and the person with whom they want to have their assistance. In fact, it specifically refers to the personal assistance needed to support their life and inclusion in society. We all also have knowledge of situations, as mentioned here, because of the absence of family members or support, in which people have to be institutionalized...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u292	They're just not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u293	... in places that are probably not the most suitable and that take them away from their lives, their employment, their community and even their friends.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u294	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u295	We want to say that the Government has been attentive to this whole situation, has been able to hear the demands of disabled people and, above all, has been in dialogue with the organizations representing them, such as Mr Raúl de Almeida, who for several years, with this governance, in particular since 2013 has been having important meetings for the definition of these projects. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that not good words are enough, people with disabilities want actions and decisions, and that is what the government has done. I would like to stress here that for the first time the Government has entered the necessary funds under the new Community framework Portugal 2020 in the Operational Programme Social Inclusion and Employment, because money is needed! Nothing is done without this, Mrs Idália Serrão, and therefore the Government has included the necessary funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u296	But what are those words for?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u297	Mrs. Member, let me finish! I listened to her carefully and, if you don't mind, let me finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u298	It's just to clarify us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u299	And with this decision, the Government has shown its will and its determination to respond to these needs, in particular to the manifestation of self-employment. Mr Deputy, as has already been said here, Portaria No 97 / 2015 of 30 March, referred to in Article 174. o, models of support for independent life. It's just reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u300	Article 174. Oh! And he's got money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u301	And he's got money! Then, Mrs Deputy, it is also only to consult the Operational Inclusion and Employment Plan — models of support for independent life and personal assistance. It is clearly here the will, commitment and desire that the Government should carry out this project and respond to this area, so that disabled people can have what they long have and that this government is realizing, with the creation of staff assistants who can help them in hygiene, personal care and even in the area of work and leisure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u302	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u303	That is why, with all due respect, we believe in the good intentions of both Mrs Helena Pinto and Mr David Costa in presenting these projects, but at the moment they seem like redundancy, because in reality these programs are already being implemented. I also leave a note: everything indicates that, in the coming months of June and July, applications will be open so that institutions and people, with their needs, can compete and adhere to these projects. We are therefore pleased with the work that the Government has done in this area. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u304	You now have the floor, Mr David Costa, for an intervention, for which you have only 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I would like to say here peremptoryly that only a state of denial of reality allows the Members. Members of the majority PSD/CDS claim that our draft resolution is not an advance. In fact, there are huge people, unfortunately, who are in this condition, without any kind of support and in a situation of complete degradation. in this sense, if they are indeed concerned, they vote in favour of our draft resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u306	It was very interesting to hear from the honourable Member and I hope that Mrs Helena Pinto will be able to do the same, because she has only five seconds for her speech. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u307	Just as I expect the same level of understanding that Mr President has had with the other benches, but I will be very, very fast. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is important and I would also like to say very frankly that it is not about the good intentions of anyone here. The Left Block brings this issue to the debate because it held a hearing with disabled people, from the most varied sectors, and therefore we wanted to bring here the concerns of disabled people who think, who choose and have concrete proposals about their lives. I therefore think that this debate between us must remove paternalism and motherhood, because this is a responsible debate, it is a political debate, it is a debate on people's rights, and that is how the Assembly of the Republic should do so. I am very sorry that the members of the majority have said here that the government is doing everything, that everything is being dealt with. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Raúl de Almeida, with all due respect, if so, there should be no problem in which this Parliament will vote and reaffirm its political position for the autonomy of people with disabilities and for independent life, but I am already seeing that you do not want to vote, you do not want to take that position. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the government is not doing everything and we will have the opportunity to deal with this. In fact, it is not enough to make a door, it is not enough to equalize the principle — that we know! In fact, if you read the explanatory statement of the draft resolution of the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u308	Thank you for finishing up, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u309	I shall conclude by thanking you for your tolerance. I'd say if you were the gentlemen. Members will read the explanatory statement from the draft resolution of the Left Block, they will verify that it is there. The problem is that the government has not yet moved to what is essential and we have left this debate with no answer. There is or is not available from the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u310	There!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u311	... to make direct payments to people so they can choose who they want and consider more appropriate to assist them? On that, you have said nothing — I am sorry! I am glad that the vote is only one week from now, because I appeal to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, think carefully. I think it was very important for this Parliament to adopt a political position.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u312	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more time for the debate on the fourth item on the agenda. Mr. João Paulo Correia asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u313	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau, in order to correct the meaning of our vote in the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on the proposal for a law No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). in fact, he was announced as having been in favor but we wanted to abstain. Therefore, this plea is to ask for the correction of the meaning of the PS bench vote in that vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-22.u314	It's definitive, isn't it? [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Members, so that there is no doubt, the final text, submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on the proposal for a law No 313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), was adopted with the votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes, and with the abstention of the PS. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on 27 Wednesday for 3 p.m. with the next item on the agenda. of the first point is the general discussion of Bill No 331 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to revise the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Public Contracts, the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building, the Law of Procedural Participation and Popular Action, the Legal Regime of Administrative Protection, the Law of Access to Administrative Documents and the Law of Access to Information on the Environment. of the second point is the general debate of Bill No 325 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Procedure 37. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, fully transposed Directives Nos 2008 / 99 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on the protection of the environment by means of criminal law, and 2009 / 123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 amending Directive No 2005 / 35 / EC on pollution by ships and the introduction of sanctions in the event of infringements. The third point consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 324 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims. The fourth and last point is followed, with the general discussion of Bill No 327 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Defines the rules for the financing of the Humanitarian Firearms Associations on the continent as firefighter bodies. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 52 minutes.]]
