ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Mr Secretary, Mr. Pedro Alves, I would like to ask you to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 776 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesia de Currelos, Papízios and Sobral, in the municipality of Carregal do Sal, to Carregal do Sal ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 777 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Gives the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to assess and monitor the accounts of parliamentary groups by amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November and the fifth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ) ; and draft resolutions No 1257 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the Fundão Hospital under public management ( PCP ), 1258 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to protect the fishing sector for sardines and shark fishermen and shipowners ( CFP ), 1259 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of funding to be allocated to specialized artistic educational establishments and the promotion of measures to ensure the compensation of increased charges resulting from the delay in the transfer of funds and to prevent further delays in contracts to be carried out in subsequent school years ( PS ) and 1260 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the urgent government requalify the road link between the IC2 ( Arrifana / Escapães ) and the A1 ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u3	Before I begin the debate, I would like to congratulate Mr. Deputy Minister and Regional Development, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, the Secretary of State of the Local Administration and the Secretary of State for Education and School Administration here present. Mrs. Members, today's agenda is fully completed by the thematic debate required by the Government under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on decentralization. I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to create conditions for the debate. For the opening of the debate, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the most centralised countries of the European Union. As an image of this or a clear picture of this circumstance, it is sufficient to mention that the weight of local administration in all public expenditure is 10 points below the European Union average. This centralization often results in a decrease in the quality of public services and policies, because it corresponds to worse information, less respect for local preferences, higher costs and more widespread responsibility for these public policies and services. on the contrary, decentralization offers many advantages. Greater proximity corresponds to more and better information about the problems that need to be solved, it also corresponds to a greater adequacy of public policies and services to the reality of the territory and the preferences of the people in that territory, also allows savings generated through local service sharing, also allows to experience innovative solutions in a municipality, an inter-municipal community, which can then be replicated elsewhere in the territory and ultimately offers a more direct and immediate responsibility, strengthening the role and voice of the people and thus their confidence in public services and policies. It was for these reasons that the government took decentralization as a priority. in this initial intervention, I would like to mention, in particular, the process of decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities, in the fields of health, education, social security and culture. It is a process that we intend ambitiously, but at the same time we carry out prudently in the method. It is a delegation of competence to municipalities, not through a universal transfer imposed on all municipalities, but through inter-administrative contracts concluded with these municipalities. We are talking to several municipalities in order to adopt a set of pilot projects, in a limited number, but geographically and socially representative of municipalities and the reality of the country. We then intend to monitor and evaluate these pilot projects to generate confidence, improve the model and generalize it across the country. This process we are implementing is also subject to certain fundamental principles: firstly, equality and non-discrimination in the access of different municipalities and inter-municipal entities; the requirement to improve the quality of public services; the transfer to the municipalities of the financial, material and human resources necessary and sufficient for these public services that will be delegated to the municipalities — the central government will transfer to the municipalities exactly what it is currently spending on these same services —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u6	... lastly, we make this process in full and full respect of the freedom and autonomy of the local power. That is why we do not impose these powers and this delegation on municipalities and that this process is subject to voluntary accession from municipalities. After many years, decades, talking in Portugal about decentralization is time to achieve decentralization. This is what we are going to do, implementing a process that we started over a year ago, which was well prepared, well planned, studied and widely discussed, at two meetings of the Territorial Concertation Council, at several meetings with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities (ANMP ), at dozens of meetings with municipalities and at many meetings with trade unions and other sectoral interests concerned. Of course, we are still available to improve this process, to continue to deepen decentralization, always in dialogue and counting on the contribution of all, including, of course, the contribution of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u7	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs. Members Rita Rato, Ramos Preto, Luís Fazenda, Cristóvão Norte, José Luís Ferreira, Altino Bessa, Diana Ferreira, Carla Cruz, João Ramos, Duarte Filipe Marques and Acácio Pinto to make requests for clarification. I am informed that the Minister intends to respond in three sets of four, four and, lastly, three. Ladies and gentlemen. So you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u8	Mr President, Minister, what we are discussing here today is not a system of decentralization of competences in the field of social functions, what the Government designates as decentralization is a step towards the privatization or dismantling of State social functions, particularly in the area of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u9	Here comes the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u10	The transfer of competences in the field of social security from the State to other entities which have neither the conditions nor the means to ensure universal character or the social response means that, in time, this response ends privatised or dismantled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u12	He doesn't trust the authorities, after all! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u13	This process, Mr Minister, is also inseparable from the current policy of reconfiguration of the role of the State in the light of the so-called « script of State reform », which aims to privatize all social functions or those enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. We already have an example of what the Government understands as decentralization, the privatization of day care and social security equipment, while reducing funding, or the protection committees for children and young people, where the Government refuses to assume its responsibilities, putting its functioning at the 'back' of the authorities. We have examples of the decentralization that the government defends in the closure of services and the reduction in the number of social security service counters, as happened in Lisbon or, for example, in Vila Nova de Gaia, condemning people to the loss of public services of proximity. Mr Minister, what the Government defends is not decentralization, it is its own deresponsibility, as it is evident, in the sending for requalification, which is the precedent for dismissal, of technicians and even Presidents, Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u15	... to committee chairs for the protection of children and young people, as is the case with Santiago do Cacem, or, then, obliging other committees, that we have set an example, such as the Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth of Guimarães working with volunteers. Mr Minister, the government refuses to fulfil its responsibility, deny services and social support to millions of people and this is not decentralising, is to destroy the public response, it is to disresponsibility to the government, it is to turn social rights into businesses that feed the profit of the private. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u16	Mr Ramos Preto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u17	Mr President, Minister, the Government has this issue of decentralization in its Government Programme four years ago. They now present themselves at the end of their term of office to debate administrative decentralization as a priority, but they bring us a diploma yesterday on delegation of competence in the form of inter-administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u19	Yesterday's diploma, Minister, says that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has been heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u20	Several times!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u21	He says his colleague « several times». Question, Minister : was the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities positive or negative?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u23	Are you afraid to mention to Parliament what is the position of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities on this matter? They should send this opinion to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u25	Mr. Minister, the diploma refers to a pilot study by CIM Alto Minho and Aveiro. Mr Minister, what are the conclusions of this study? What are the results? They are certainly not those in PowerPoint who unfortunately sent to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Minister, with regard to administrative decentralization, there are two options: the option of legal decentralization of competences, complemented by inter-administrative contracts, respecting the autonomy of local power, as was done in Lisbon and is the model that the Socialist Party defends, and the choice of the delegation of competence only for some municipalities, such object of the pilot project referred to yesterday's diploma. Consequences of your political option in the area of education: the government creates, by this way, municipalities at three speeds, i.e. the municipalities of the pilot project, the municipalities that have some delegation of competence and the municipalities that do not have any delegation of competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u27	What is the question, Minister: what criteria are underlying the selection of these municipalities? I have serious doubts about the legality of the selection. Now, Minister, also in the area of education, what is the matrice of responsibility for the two parties to the inter-administrative contract to be concluded and which Parliament does not know? Mr Minister, the PS requires a decentralisation which implies the legal allocation of new competences to municipalities, which involves the transfer of human and financial resources indispensable to the assumption of new responsibilities, configured in flexible terms, in order to enable, according to previously defined criteria, that you here did not say which were,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u29	... a harmonisation between the principle of decentralization and subsidiarity and the requirements of unity and efficiency in political and administrative action. Mr. Minister, there are issues that are of regime. If you tell me you're going now, in a hurry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u30	In a hurry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u31	... at the end of the term of office, to legislate on this matter and partially resolve decentralization issues, I will tell you that the time of the legislative measures has passed, and has passed without being met by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u32	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u33	I will finish, Madam President. Therefore, Mr Minister, when we present here a solution which is conjuncural, ephemeral, generating inequality and instability, I will tell you that you have failed in the state reform test. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u34	The next request for clarification is from Mr Luís Fazenda, the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u35	Mr. President, Minister, Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015, published yesterday, provides for decentralization of competences. It does not concern any form of regionalization, nor does it guarantee the linkage to popular voting, or any competences that have to do with administrative intermediate units, but rather — it is appropriate not to confuse the concepts — with a process that does not even transfer competences, but of temporary delegation of competences, by means of an inter-administrative contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u37	Therefore, this is neither a regionalisation nor a broad decentralization, it is, on a case-by-case basis and for a given period, the delegation of competences of the central administration to the local administration. We therefore understand the format and scope of this proposal for decentralisation: it is short, it is limited and arbitrary, because it has a general framework of criteria here, but all that is stipulated to be worth will be in inter-administrative contracts. We will, therefore, eventually have different county contracts for the council. We also understand the precariousness of the financial agreement. There are aspects that currently have total opacity, because it is not known how to guarantee maintenance, new investments, in various equipment. All this will belong to the domain of the inter-administrative contract and not, as it should be, to a framework law that provides an equality of circumstances to all municipalities. But we also understand another point, Minister Poiares Maduro: in case it seems to be more advanced, with 10 pilot projects in the area of education, the problem here is not decentralization. The attempt goes, indeed, on the contrary. The problem is that this decentralization campaign is really an ambush, because it is being done at the expense of the autonomy of schools. If the principle should be to bring the decision of the citizens, of all those who, on the ground, are closer to public equipment and services, here is the opposite: they are withdrawing competences from schools, from groups of schools, to deliver them to municipal chambers, i.e. beyond the citizens. from that we realize the opposition of the National Confederation of Associations of Fathers, of the various associations of school directors, of the various trade unions, of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities... I do not seem to have a single partner, of those who are agents in educational communities, who do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u38	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u39	And this is understood, because everyone will generally challenge the competences of the municipal chamber on a disciplinary basis in the educational environment, in pedagogical management, in a contract of 25 %, because the flexible curriculum, now called "educational offer", of 25 %, will lead to the local hiring of teachers — this is in the Decree-Law published yesterday — in addition, Mr Minister, of everything that has to do with incentives that are promised to municipalities, if there is a global downsizing of expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u40	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u41	Therefore, many municipalities have already realized that it is not worth making inter-administrative contracts with the government because they have no guarantees of the transfer of the appropriate financial package. Decentralization, like this? Oh, my God! No, thank you! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u42	The next request for clarification is from Mr Cristovão Norte, PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u43	Mr President, Minister, so far I thought there was a political consensus on the opportunity and demand to decentralise. However, when some questions are now raised, in particular by the PCP, which, on the one hand, has always been a fervorous according to local autonomy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u44	Exactly! But that's not what's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u45	... and always admitted that this was an essential element of the construction of the democratic rule of law, what we see are reservations. All and more reservations are pointed out! These same ones who were talking about local autonomy, are now those who deny that the government is legislating about this local autonomy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u46	Put your hand over the authorities! That's not decentralization!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u47	... and that enables to build models in which municipalities adhere to their own will. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u48	I hope that the cities of the PCP will be able to join, if that is in their interest, but I hope, above all, that the cities of the PCP will not privatize anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u49	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u50	...and may they be faithful to your word,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u51	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u52	... because we often find that municipalities of the PCP are not in line with what is here professed by the bench of the Communist Party Portuguese. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u53	This is an essential process,... [[PCP protests.]] [[Calm down!]] [[Calm down!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u54	... but it must be a built process, a consensualized process. [[PCP protests.]] Formalism is also a substance! So I want to know whether there has been a broad consensualization effort on the part of the government or not,... [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u55	... because, when there is more acute and certain criticism, the first objection the opposition objected to is to say: "Well, this was not built, this was not consensualized, this matter was not treated. Do not keep on seeking. ” He asked the Minister, in order to dispel doubts, to tell the House that the legislative process has been constructed, as it has been built, to demonstrate that this is not a legislative fever of the Government, it is a coherent, conscious and prepared process for a long time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u56	Mr Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u57	Mr President, if you will allow me, then, to achieve one point or another, I will ask the Secretary of State of the Local Administration and the Secretary of State for Education and School Administration to respond, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u58	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Rita Rato, I have difficulty answering your question. “ Privatization ”? Oh, my God! It is that there is no correspondence with reality or with what is at stake here. [[PCP protests.]] These are contracts to delegate competences in municipalities. Unless the Communist Party, which in fact has responsibility in several municipalities in the country, understands that municipalities are a form of privatization! Is that what you're talking about? I would be surprised at that, but it seems to me that this is not the position. [[PCP protests.]] What I think is at stake is that, once again, the Communist Party confirms its centralism and that it would be better to assume that they are against decentralization and explain why they are against it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] Mr. Ramos Preto, I know that the Socialist Party in recent times often changes its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u60	Don't look at me! Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u61	The only consistency that has shown is its inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u62	Look, it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u63	Now do it in the same sentence, it's weird. He started by accusing us of taking a long time to do so and then he ended up accusing us of being too fast.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u64	Hurt it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u65	So I don't understand what your criticism is. There is a reason why, over the decades, we have talked about decentralization in the country and we have never realized this decentralization. For the first time, this government is doing so. And we are doing so by means of a process — and let me also reply to Mr Cristovão Norte — which has been largely involved. For the first time, we presented to the Territorial Convergence Council the decentralization project in July last year. So we started to discuss this issue very early. We discussed it twice in the Territorial Convergence Council, the last time for the draft decree-law that was published yesterday. We had six meetings with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u66	And what was the result? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u67	We had meetings with partners, such as union associations, the association of school directors, the presidents of the general councils and the directors of school groupings... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u68	What was the result? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u69	...and we had dozens of meetings with municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u70	We want the studies, first!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u71	If you will allow me, then I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration, who may further detail how these meetings took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u72	We want the studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u73	Allow me, however, to say that pilot projects are chosen on the basis of the will expressed by the municipalities themselves, corresponding to the great concern we have in this process to safeguard the autonomy and freedom of local power. That is why, I repeat, we do not choose, Mr Luís Fazenda, a universal transfer, which would correspond to an imposition on all the municipalities of these powers. We choose not to follow a mechanism of imposition on the municipalities of these competences, we choose a voluntary mechanism of accession of the municipalities to generate confidence and credibility in the system through these contracts of delegation of competences so that we can then generalize it. Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration, I thank you for your further clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in reply to Mr Ramos Preto, would add something on two or three points. Mr President, the debate we have had is a long one year ago, the preparation work started with many entities. The honourable Member asked by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. Let me answer that I will not do as the leader of your party, Antonio Costa, who in 2006 said : « ANMP is only a partner and the laws in Portugal are not subject to the approval of ANMP. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u75	We want to look like it! [[Listen, Your Honor!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u76	I will not tell you that, Mr President. I'm going to tell you that ANMP, a year ago, 10 years ago, a month ago, was — and is — in favour of decentralization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u77	I am too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u78	... was, and is, in favor of the decentralization contractualized with the municipalities, respecting the autonomy of each of them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u79	There was a lot of debate, a lot of meetings. There were six of them. With the contributions of ANMP, we have improved, and much, the decree-law that we are also discussing here today. There were several points: equality and non-discrimination of the municipalities concerned; the criteria for the selection of pilot municipalities;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u80	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u81	...the preservation, in operation, of implementing contracts, contracts which, as you know, come from the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u82	They should have come before!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u83	Mr President, there have been many contributions from ANMP that have been given, because we do not think ANMP is just a partner, as the PS understood when it was in government. He's a fundamental partner we heard. [[PS protests.]] But, Mr. Deputies, also answering the question you asked about the studies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u84	But are there studies or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u85	... let me say the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u86	Don't turn away!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u87	...I have not one, not two, not three studies to give you, but yes - and we will give you — the studies we have done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u88	I should have given up before the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u89	...the ones you did, the ones of international organizations, the ones of universities. I have a lot of studies in the various areas to give you and I will hand you over, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u90	But why didn't you give it before? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u91	But let me tell you, Mr President, that « I want a study» is the socialist euphemism to say « I want to do nothing»! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] That is why, on behalf of the Government, the statement I make is this: we want decentralization to happen and we want to do it - respecting the will of the municipalities. The question is this: who here is afraid of local autonomy and of the will of each municipality to receive competence, in contract with the government? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u92	Send your studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u93	Let's continue with the questions. I'm asking the ladies. Members who take into account the distribution of time in questions and answers, not exceeding too much, despite the allocation to global time. Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u94	Mr President, Minister, spoke of safeguarding the autonomy of local power. In addition, in the preamble to the decree on decentralization that the Government presents to us today, the Government recalls the Constitution of the Republic and recalls respect for the autonomy of the local power. I remember the Law of the Commitments, I remember the various State budgets, whereby the Government not only disrespects the autonomy of the local authority, as is also the case with the gross interference in the management of local authorities, forcing them, for example, to fire workers or demand the Government's authorization to hire staff. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u95	But I can also remember, more recently, the 35 hours a week, since the government only wants them for the chambers that have the accounts in order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u96	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u97	The government also requires that municipalities undertake not to increase their staff expenditure. Well the Government may speak of respect for local authorities, well the Government may speak of respect for the autonomy of local power that the Portuguese are already getting used to this Franciscan government policy, of « look at what I say, but do not look at what I do». Then the government speaks of the script of the state reform, the masterpiece of the Vice Prime Minister, Paulo Portas. This script is no longer the expression of the desire to see a State reduced to zero with regard to its social functions. It is almost like saying « the less state, the less social functions, the better, because the more time the government has to take care of banks and large economic groups. And the people who love each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u98	Aren't you ashamed to say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u99	Mr Minister, let us be clear: any procedure for delegating the powers of the government to the local administration must necessarily involve not only the participation of the recipients of the new responsibilities, but also of the workers involved. I'm talking about local authorities, I'm talking about workers' representative organisations. If, in fact, the aim of this decentralization was to improve public service services to populations, the Government would certainly involve all stakeholders, including local authorities and professionals, being teachers in the case of education, as well as local government workers. I would like to know, Mr Minister, whether local government workers have been heard and what they have said or, for example, with regard to education, whether teachers have been heard and what they have said. And finally, because I know that the Government has heard the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, even though this Association has underlined the short time the Government has given it to deliver its opinion, suggesting that the Government has only done so to comply with the timetable, I would like Mr Minister to tell us what the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities thinks about this delegation of competences, whether or not the conditions for moving forward with the process are understood or not. This is because I heard Mr. Secretary of State and it seemed to me that we are before two opinions. I will read what the National Association of Municipalities says in the first version: « (...) terms in which the National Association of Municipalities issues an unfavorable opinion. in the second version, the National Association of Municipalities says, and I quote, « (...) reasons why the National Association of Municipalities considers that the conditions for contractualization supported by the principles underlying it are not yet met». And now, Minister? And now, Mr. Secretary of State? What do you have to say? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u100	Mr Altino Bessa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u101	Mr President, Minister, today we are debating the question of the decentralization of State functions in municipalities and inter-municipal communities. I would like to make a brief review of this long process that has been more than a decade old. In 2003 the government already proposed this decentralization, with a study that it did so-called Characterization of State functions. however, effectively, nothing was done. The Government of José Socrates, at the time by the Minister of Internal Administration, presented a decentralization programme to the authorities in 2006. in this program, it is read that « António Costa today proposed to the National Association of Municipalities the negotiation, from January 2007, of a decentralization program... » — see — «... in the areas of education, health and social action ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u102	Really? Oh, my God! What a surprise! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u103	It said this PRACE ( Central State Administration Restructuring Programme ) « to decentralise for municipalities powers which are now in central administration, with their respective funds and with effect from the 2008 State Budget ». At the time, the Minister said: "This proposal is the biggest decentralising challenge launched in 30 years of local democratic power. Do not keep on seeking. ” He also said in 2007 : « municipalities have one week to give a reply to the government ». They imposed a one-week deadline on the National Association of Municipalities to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u104	A long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u105	At the time, the Secretary of State, today Member, Eduardo Cabrita, said that local competences would be defined in time to enter into force in the 2008 State Budget. Also in the Big Plan Options 2010 - 2013 presented by the Government of the Socialist Party, it was said that it was intended to consolidate and deepen the decentralization of competences for municipalities and that the process of decentralization of competences for municipalities aimed at the following areas: education, social action and health. Today, in view of the reality we face, the diagnosis is this: in the area of education, we are 28 % below the European average; we are 22 % below the European average in public security and order; and in health we are 13 % below the average. Indeed, we are not from the most centralizing countries. What has been done by this government over these three years has been a real reform of local administration. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u106	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u107	What we did was a series of agreements concluded in 2012, 2013 and 2014 between the Government and the National Association of Municipalities on several topics: the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme), the Late Commitments and Payments Act, the IMI, the QREN.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u108	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u109	There was always, always, always dialogue. So I ask, Minister: is it true that the local power is better today than it was three years ago? Is it true that the local authority deserves this trust from the central administration, to delegate, to make these inter-administrative contracts? We trust in the competence that the local power can have in proximity to the populations, unfortunately, the opposite is that of other parties that very much appeal to the autonomy and dignity of the local power. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u110	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u111	Mr President, Minister, far from being faced with any decentralisation, what is being discussed today is the disresponsibility of the Government to a vast set of fundamental and constitutional rights. Anyone who wants to decentralize does not close schools, does not create mega-groupings or super-schools, centralizing teachers and employees, amassing students from preschool, basic and secondary in the same space, nor closes regional education directions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u113	Anyone who wants to decentralize does not transfer to others the responsibility of resolving the lack of employees, teachers and special education technicians in schools. Whoever wants to decentralise pays. Pay all the school textbooks to the students of step A and do not refuse to pay the study visits and other activities to these students. Is that how the Government seeks to respond to the needs of the public school, Minister? So let's suppose that's the case. How does the Government justify that this process of transfer of competence in the area of education foresee, as it has been called, 'incentives for efficiency', meaning that, if the authorities further reduce certain expenditure in the area of education, they receive 50 % of the money they have not spent and the Ministry of Education the other 50 %? This is, at least, unacceptable! Unacceptable and shameful are the measures of this nature, in a frame of successive budget cuts in public school. The past shows that the contractualization of competences with the authorities constitutes another attack on public school and the promotion of privatization, as is the case in the AEC ( Curriculum enrichment activities ) or in the provision of school meals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u115	Mr Minister, anyone who wants to decentralise does not oblige the authorities to take responsibility for managing national museums, disregarding the impossibility of ensuring the safeguard, valorization and study of heritage in a scientific perspective oriented towards the deepening of knowledge. The government does not want to decentralise, or decentralise itself from its competences in ensuring a public school of quality for all and from widespread access to culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u116	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u117	Mr President, Mr Minister, I confirm by reading Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 that 25% of teaching staff will be recruited according to specific local-based projects. Therefore, all the promises that the government has come to make that there will be no teaching staff hired directly by schools or municipalities. in Article 4. , paragraph 2, is mentioned in the incentive to reduce expenditure, but the Minister has not yet answered the question of how it is guaranteed the programming of investments in the supply of the public network that is being contracted. The basic question is as follows: the Decree-Law itself, yesterday published, on decentralization of competences for some local authorities, through these inter-administrative contracts, refers to the so-called " script of State reform", that document that is not apocryphal, is by Paulo Portas and was so incensed by the government! with regard to decentralization for the area of education, there was what at the time was called the grant to the municipalities of schools—I presume to be this process that the government now presents for pilot projects—but had a continuity in the script of state reform, which was the creation of the so-called "independent schools", which were no longer the privatization of schools. Having come here, I would like to ask the Minister — and he asked for a reply from the Minister — whether, in fact, this model of the inter-administrative contract for the so-called'municipal grant of schools', as was said in the script on State reform, is not the foreword of such independent schools, i.e. the privatization of public schools. That is the question and she deserves an answer. Or, then, we will have to conclude that the script of State reform has no role in this process of decentralization of competence. There is here a question of political unity, there is here a question of vector and responsibility on the part of the government. What counts on the state reform script? What has been sent to this Decree-Law on the decentralization of competences? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u118	To reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u119	Mr President, let me begin by making a general comment, which also covers what Mr Luís Fazenda has just mentioned. It has already come to realize that the great consensus on decentralization is hampered by oppositions that cannot achieve the specific point with which they disagree. Instead, or ask for more studies, more time, more debate, or then seek to transport the debate to issues that have nothing to do with what is being discussed here. There's no privatization, there's no model of that kind that's at stake. Mr President, the Government is responding to what it intends to do and we are here to discuss what is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u120	State reform script! He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u121	We are not here to make false discussions, to create noise, to try to create an obstacle to a process that everyone says in principle to agree, but that then, in particular, they do not have the courage to take and defend. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In particular, seeking to eliminate part of this noise, Mr José Luís Ferreira, this process, with regard to workers, does not prejudice the links and guarantees that workers have. There is no change in this respect. I would also like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Altino Bessa about the confidence that local power deserves. We really understand that local power deserves this trust and that it is implicit in this process of decentralization. It deserves this confidence because of the extraordinary evolution that it has made to the quality of its financial and economic management. Late payments have decreased by almost 70 % in the authorities, debt has decreased by 29 % and the authorities have consistently had budgetary surpluses. This is a remarkable result that is due to the quality and effort of the authorships, but also to the profound reforms that this government and this majority have undertaken in the field of local administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u123	It is this evolution of the local administration supported by the reforms that this majority has promoted that allow us to say today, with complete confidence that the authorities have the ability to take on these new competences, which, in fact, correspond to what is necessary in the evolution of the fundamental role that local power has always had in our country. Local power played a very important role in improving the living conditions of the population in terms of public infrastructure and equipment over many decades in democracy. But today, local power has to focus less on infrastructure, equipment and more on its role for economic and social development, on the role of promoting social inclusion, on combating school failure, subjects which this decentralization of competence will promote, subjects which the evolution of the authorities have shown that local power is in a position to assume. We trust local power. The doubt here is whether the opposition trusts the local power. Mr President, if I may, I would also like to speak to the Secretary of State for Education and Local Administration to answer some of the questions on education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u124	The problem is that you have another round of questions and time is short. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u125	Mr President, it is only to reinforce what has been said by the Minister and, as far as education is concerned, to say that decentralization in the way of autonomy, for us, makes sense by adding municipalities and not moving them away. It doesn't make sense that, at a time when we all know that autonomy has more chances to avenge by giving more opportunities to all, who don't consider themselves as partners the municipalities. They all claim that it is, in the context, those who are closer to those who have the greatest ability to decide, in a more appropriate way, with respect to recipients. It seems that there are fears of municipalities being called to participate in this process. in this pilot project, our interest is the improvement of school results and the prevention of abandonment. That is, our interest, when adding the municipalities, is the interest in our students. It's with our students that we're worried. With regard to what has been said today in this debate, as it is a great novelty to the fact that teachers can be hired or that flexible curriculum management can be done, I would like to warn you that the flexibility of the 25 % curriculum management is made possible since February 2014 in all schools that have contracts of autonomy. And yet, for those who continue to be more distracted, that same portal says that, in order to create disciplines or to do such curriculum management, it depends on the previous opinion of the pedagogical council and the approval of the general council. There's no news here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a new set of questions. Mr Acácio Pinto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u127	Mr President, Minister, let it be clear that the Socialist Party has nothing against decentralization,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u128	... the true decentralization, which is, in fact, the cornerstone of the reform of the state. That is not what the Minister here wants to bring about with this project and with this process. Because what this process does is to remove the procedures of proximity to populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u129	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u130	This is clear! It only works on your slide and makeup that they introduced you. But let's go to specific questions, Minister. How is it possible—and here he has not yet said—that a process, in his words, "so virtuous" had the lead of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities? Another concrete issue: how a « so virtuous » process has had a government advisory body, which is the School Council, the answer that this is a process of deresponsibility of the central powers of the State, I repeat, a process of deresponsibility of the central powers of the State. What is your word to the School Council, a government advisory council? Oh, my God! And more: how is it possible to develop this process without giving an initial voice to the real actors of the educational process — schools, their organs and teachers? Mr Secretary of State, now, I would also like you to have a word to tell us about the complete emptying which, through this process, is done in the autonomy of schools. We well know that in recent times autonomy has been completely emptied by transforming school directors into managers of electronic platforms. We know this, Mr Secretary of State, about the issue of education, but I would also like you to say something about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u131	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u132	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, now, also explains to us what happens with the hiring of teachers, which has been stated in all the articles cited by government members who will not fail to be done by the Ministry of Education. Well, Article 8. the Decree-Law does not say that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u133	Say, say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u134	... says there will be hiring of human resources for the educational component and for the local component of the curriculum. Explain the situation of these teachers and whether the efficiency gains that have been mentioned continue to be shared equally by the authorities and the government. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would also like to say the following: this is not a process of real decentralization, but of deconcentration and deresponsibility of the government towards the State, for its social functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u135	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u136	Mr President, Minister, the Government intends to transfer responsibilities and competences from the health area to the authorities. The government says the goal is to approach — nothing more false! during these three years of governance, what the government has done is precisely the opposite, as the closure of proximity health services — we have the example of the Extension of Health of Louro or the Health Centre of Belas ; closures of extended hours in units and health centers — Braga, Vizela, Espinho, Santa Maria da Feira ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u137	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u138	... concentration and fusion of health centres, with the creation of mega-groupings of health centres; closures and concentration of services and valences in hospitals of the Middle Tejo and Aveiro. The consequences are in sight: emergency services on the ground, patients who need to make several kilometers to have consultation and treatment. The government says that this measure will speed up the hiring and allocation of health professionals—again, reality contradicts speech. To hire health professionals, it is not enough the office of the Ministry of Health, it is necessary the chance and authorization of the Ministry of Finance. There's a thousand authorizations in the Ministry of Finance drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u140	To make investment, purchase materials and equipment over 100 000 € requires authorization from the Ministry of Health. Mr Minister, tell us how these policies of closure, concentration of services and valences in the field of health promote decentralization. We are not faced with a process of decentralization of competences, Minister, but we are before another set of measures to de-responsibility of the Government to ensure universal access to constitutionally enshrined rights, such as health, and another attack on the social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u141	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this is too serious a subject to serve as a political weapon. Therefore, the appeal I make to the opposition parties and, above all, to the Socialist Party is that they look seriously at this issue. We already realize that the problem of the Socialist Party is not to decentralization, the problem of the Socialist Party is not to want this government to do decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u144	The problem of this process is the 'color'! I'm not saying it's the smell, the detail, more like this or more roast. [[PS protests.]] The Socialist Party doesn't even let it do it! In fact, I'm beginning to think that the Socialist Party is no longer the PS, it's the PC, it's the centralist party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u146	That's how they did with QREN, that's what they seem to want to do again and that's what irritates them. in fact, what happens is that we are convinced by the Portuguese Communist Party that, in fact, municipal chambers are terrible private companies because this is a process of privatization. The cameras aren't private, gentlemen! Don't be confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u147	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u148	As for the 'poppy bug' that the Left Block also opens here with the history of the teachers, I ask: and in the AEC who chooses the teachers and who hires them?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u149	Look what a good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u150	That, in fact, says a lot about the approach they make on this matter! So this is a process that has been negotiated with the authorities? Yeah. What's flexible? Yeah. What is adjusted to each council? Yeah. What gives more autonomy to schools in the management of their curricula? Yeah. It is this process that, above all, gives more power to schools, gives more autonomy to schools. [[PS protests.]] This process is an opportunity for the interior, so often forgotten, it is a way of giving a vote of confidence to the authorities, it is a way of ensuring respect for local power, by the school directors, is, above all, sustainable decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u152	But there is also an important aspect: they are pilot projects. Not forces everyone to do what they don't want, but it's a way for everyone to be able to experiment so that they can be evaluated and then we can implement it or not to the rest of the country. It is not a returnless path, it is not a forced path, for all. Mr Minister, do I leave you with a very specific question to end the «pope bug» of the hiring of teachers: are the chambers that will choose the professor of Portuguese, the professor of Philosophy, the professor of Mathematics, the professor of science, the professor of biology, the professor of history? Oh, my God! And are the cameras that will choose the curricula of these areas? It is good to clarify now to end the « Papa bug ». The Socialist Party wants to make this reform? Want! He doesn't want the others to do it first. Forget the elections! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u153	First, there's the country, there's the students and it's the interior of the country. Forget the elections! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u154	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, decentralization is the priority of this government, said the Minister. Let us look at the examples of the services and the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture. The government closed state laboratories in Mirandala, Guarda, Alcains, which supported livestock activity to concentrate services in Vairão. In addition, all services were concentrated in two laboratories. In November 2013 the Ministry of Agriculture replied that « the reorganization of the Ministry's laboratories will allow the concentration of resources and equipment, gaining critical mass and scale ». Is this your notion of decentralization? The Animal Health Service, the responsibility of the State, was decentralised in producer organisations. It would run well until the previous government began to delay payments. This government has already invented fees, but it keeps the delay, putting the whole system at stake. at present it is due to 60 % of 2014 and does not commit to 2015 payments. More and more organizations in difficulty and animals for sanitation. Is this the decentralization model they defend? Rural extension services—we know that a government and parties that are in the hands of the big people every day must seem strange about this. The Ministry's support and advice services are fundamental to small producers, on the grounds that they are hostage to the advice and control of multinationals selling their products. Without such public support, producers are unprotected. In January 2014 the PCP proposed the resumption of rural extension services, but PSD, CDS and PS voted against. Natural parks — the PCP proposed in September 2013 the appointment of an exclusive director for the Peneda-Gerês National Park and that a 2010 resolution be fulfilled, which proposes the allocation of the management bodies of parks of protected areas of administrative autonomy, technical and financial capacity. The PSD and CDS voted against these PCP proposals. Do you not understand that this would also be decentralization? You speak in decentralization, but in the field of agriculture all you have done was in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u156	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u157	I'm done now, Mr. President. Who's a centralist after all? You don't want to decentralise, you want to rule out responsibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u158	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, let me begin by making it clear here to Mr. Secretary of State Leitão Amaro that the Socialist Party's bench does not accept lessons from Mr. Secretary of State on the question of who is supporting the local power. [[PSD laughter.]] Do not try to cast this mistrust on the Socialist Party, because we can speak on the basis of what we have already done: in the area of education, with the creation of curricular enrichment activities (AEC) ; in the field of health, with the reform of primary health care; in the field of social solidarity, with social networks. We have experience and you are curiously trying, in practice six months from the end of the legislature, to make here a sort of decentralization disguised as inter-administrative contracts. regarding the area of health, it generates even more curiosity and stupefaction, because if there is a mark of the management of this ministry is exactly that of centralization of decisions. This became clear, for example, in the recent emergency crisis, in which the Socialist Party needed to propose to the Government that it give EPE hospitals the power to hire doctors and nurses to do so. Even more serious is that decisions concerning Portuguese health problems depend not only on the Ministry of Health but above all on the Ministry of Finance. It is the Minister of Finance who has so far ordered the health of the Portuguese, so do not now try, six months after the end of your term, to disguise this reality. Just see how you treat the area of health in regional terms, when you see that Lisbon consumes more than 50% of the extraordinary funding of the National Health Service. Perhaps it would be better for the government, instead of presenting here a proposal for decentralisation that is not really so, to implement some of the measures that are already provided for in the law and that would allow a greater possibility of intervention by local agents such as ensuring the participation of municipalities in the executive boards of the health centres' groupings, or, for example, putting the community's councils into operation. Mr Secretary of State for Health, probably better than Mr Minister and others. State Secretaries will know that in the field of health the issue of decentralization has never been an objective of this government. In order to control costs, the Government has always tried to concentrate on itself everything that concerns the main decisions. Not even the big hospitals had autonomy. Therefore, this proposal presented here in the form of a decree does not have any logic or makes any sense as to what they have done in the last three years. It is not worth fooling the Portuguese, it is not worth fooling the autarchs, you know who is on the side of the authorities, you know who is trusting in the decision-making power of the autarchs, and surely this diploma does not help anything about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u160	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u161	Mr President, I regret that the opposition continues not to discuss this proposal, but only to make judgements of intention or request more time, more debate, more dialogue on an issue which, at the same time, refuses to discuss in concrete terms. I wanted to be very brief and answer Mr Acácio Pinto, just to reassure him, confirming that this process was widely debated, including with the school directors. The quality, the level, the intensity of debate, the participation in this process has also been confirmed by autarchs of its party that have been involved in it and that have already stated it publicly. Mr President, if I may, and to complete the Government's response, I would speak to Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u162	Please. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u163	Mr President, Mrs Luisa Salgueiro asked me not to teach the Socialist Party. I never want to teach lessons, I don't feel in condition, I don't think it's the position in democracy that a government teaches a party. What I did was a sincere and profound appeal for them to let go of politicism, to let go of the electoral interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u164	This is not an offense, sir, it is a sincere appeal. If the gentlemen. Members and your party believe in decentralization, now that it is happening, help and do not want to stop it. On the specific subject, Mr Acácio Pinto asked about the autonomy of schools and the involvement of groups. Mr Deputies, as you know, we — Government, Ministry of Education, Presidency of the Council of Ministers — not only met with the authorities, met and discussed with the groups of these authorities, directly, sharing information with them. On the matrix of competences by which Mr Ramos Preto asked, I must say that we told the authorities and the groups "talk between you, look at these basic documents, propose, work on them, make proposals, not just the municipality, but the grouping itself. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, this is not the only way to value groupings is to do what we have already announced we are going to do, and we are preparing — we call on the Council of Schools to make contributions — which is to change the diploma of the Municipal Education Council to integrate not only a group director, but all the group directors in that municipality. Mr President, for example, when expenditure decreases, we do not withdraw the expenditure from education. One part remains in the Ministry of Education and the other part is invested, with codecision of the directors of the groups. There is no municipalization, there is no reduction in autonomy, there is no transfer of management power over teachers; there is, yes, the greater effort that has already been made in Portuguese democracy to approximate the management of the education of the populations, schools, parents, with the political decision makers and educational decision makers who are closer, in joint and not from turned backs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u165	What about the response to decentralization in agriculture?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u166	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention. Mr President, I appeal to your power of summary because it has only 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u167	Mr. President, that power of synthesis is almost fulminant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u168	Quality and not quantity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u169	Mr President, the Minister has accused me of discussing anything that was not under discussion. I'm going to insist on thesis, if you have the right to listen to me, Minister. The decree issued yesterday on decentralization of competences invokes the script of the reform of the State. On pages 71 to 73 of the State reform script, we can read not only this modality of inter-administrative contracts for decentralization of competences in education but also the transfer of ownership of public school to teachers groups, i.e. the privatization of schools. It is in the same script as the reform of the State, which invokes the decree on decentralization of competences. My question was, therefore, legitimate and remains: is this decentralisation not the precondition for the privatization of schools? That is a political question. It is in the script of state reform and, therefore, they either take it politically or not. We already knew that the autonomy contracts provide for 25 % flexible curriculum and recruitment of teaching staff. But what we have to deny is the subsequent statements by government members that there would be no hiring of teaching staff. There is not only 25% of the curriculum, by the municipal chambers and by the school offer, as there is much more, from the protocols for training and education in the context of work. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following, if I may: in this context, on the decentralization of competences, municipal chambers become competent even in disciplinary matters with students! It is not only pedagogical competence, it is also disciplinary competence on issues related to students and students. This is the reality of the facts, the rest is pre-election political propaganda. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u170	For an intervention, Mr Mário Ruivo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are really discussing here is not a real decentralisation, particularly with regard to the area of social security. On the question of social security, what we are doing here is justifying the dismissal of 600 workers, and that is the real reason for this diploma. Because if we look at Article 10. the diploma we find is a set of proposals, consultations, cooperations, which does not give municipalities any competence in the field of centralization because they, practically, are summarized in a mere advisory activity. Especially in relation to the issue of the CLDS (local social development contracts), where the transfer is made, what they already anticipate is that the municipalities proposed the territories to be covered. Article 10. he speaks again in proposing — nothing new. As for the RLIS (local social intervention network ), the municipalities are clearly in the background in the intentions of the government, to the detriment of the institutions of the third sector, as it is possible to verify in the offices and portals published on the subject. In short, in our view, the inclusion of this area in the diploma published today is justified only because it would be unjustifiable not to do so. What is planned is far from being a decentralization of competence for municipalities and inter-municipal entities. We were here discussing something that has long existed and that has nothing new—just think about the Approximar programme and the Government recommendation, which approves the strategy for the reorganization of the Public Administration services. This strategy basically consists of the creation of different service spaces, which can gather in a physical space virtually all service services since they are located. But the question is that this diploma does not explain where human resources will be affected by the authorities or sectoral ministries. Who will bear the operating costs? The authorities? And how will safeguard data protection be done? And we must not forget that the recommendation itself, at some point, says: « There may be direct contractualization, i.e., through direct provision of the workers of their respective service, as is currently the case with decentralised service posts, and contractualization of the third sector under outsourcing regime ». Therefore, they are not afraid when it says that here too there is an intention to privatize or deresponsibility of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u172	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this thematic debate on decentralization we must be absolutely clear. Either we're in favor or we're against. The Socialist Party says « nil». With regard to words he says yes, but when we move on to acts it can no longer be. We are all aware that Portugal is one of the most centralised countries in Europe and with this reform, and with this government initiative we are moving into what is not only European but the most developed countries. Decentralisation is synonymous with approximation but is also synonymous with effectiveness and public management. And the proposal presented here by the Government is a clear commitment to trust in the autarchs and local power. It is fair to point out in this respect that the Government has a deeply reformist and decentralising mark. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important here to remember that this was an inclusive process, a process of dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u174	With the authorities saying they don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u175	Does the Socialist Party say there is no dialogue? Since 2007 there has been dialogue, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what has not been done. And now we're going to move on to acts. This dialogue was conducted both with the National Association of Municipalities, either with trade union associations, and it is a reform that challenges municipalities to join in a perfectly voluntary way, either in the areas of education, in health or in social action. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us remember the Socialist Party in 2007, on the eve of the State Budget for 2008. He then said the Minister of Internal Administration, Dr. António Costa, the following : « Education, health and social action are the three competences to decentralise for the authorities ». I mean, exactly what we're talking about today. But let's remember something more recent. Dr António Costa said in his last speech on 5 October last year: « Decentralisation must be a cornerstone of state reform ». But then he said more: « The city of Lisbon is now available to host and decentralise State competences, particularly in education and health matters ». The question I leave is whether the Socialist Party has once again changed its mind. But I also leave a second question: if Lisbon was so fit and so available to accommodate this same decentralization of State competences, why did Lisbon not take the initiative to enter this pilot project and this decentralization initiative? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u176	Mr António Proa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u177	Mr President, the Socialist Party no longer has time to be able to answer at this stage of the debate — indeed, it is customary — but, of course, it will have the opportunity to do so, if you want, in the closing period, so I will leave a few questions in the same way. The first framework I do is what unites us all, which is the fact that we all defend that a set of competences that can best be met by the authorities, by their proximity characteristics, must be placed precisely in the authorities. That is what we all agree on. It's such a speech that unites us. But what is the Socialist Party's position in the face of this concrete hypothesis of decentralization? Well, I resort to a statement made at a meeting of the Socialist Party — "it is against, but it is in favour. » And how does the Socialist Party feel about this? I also use a statement by a socialist leader — « answers, so far, were zero. Do not keep on seeking. ” But will the areas be the problem of the Socialist Party? The decree-law already makes clear what they are. They are the areas in the social field, which are precisely the same in which the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party defends the transfer and decentralization of competences, that is, the areas of health and education. Will it eventually be the flimsy character? The Act of Local Finance of Socialist authorship in 2007 ( Law No. 2 / 2007 of 15 January ), in Article 53 ( 7 ), said. the, that « (...) competences may be transferred by avulse diploma, with a transitional character(...) ». Is that what's at stake? Have you changed your mind? Is it the problem of pilot projects here? Well, these same pilot projects were those that Dr. António Costa wanted to implement as an exploratory phase of Lisbon reform. That's what Dr. António Costa wanted to do. Is it the financial transfer? Well, she's guaranteed in the law decree. What is the Socialist Party's problem after all? It's the chance, it can't be good now. Why? Because the Socialist Party puts the party's interest in the national interest. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u178	At the same time, Dr. António Costa says that decentralization is the model he implemented in Lisbon and that it must be the cornerstone of state reform. But then he does not want to commit himself to any decentralisation. The difference, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only in the reform of Lisbon that the Social Democratic Party, in the opposition, committed itself to a reform that was important to the city. [[PSD applause.]] In short, the Socialist Party, at the national level, being opposed, is not available for any compromise. Let's go, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you look like Dr. António Costa! Why don't you ever face it? Why don't you make a commitment? Why is Dr. António Costa hiding? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u179	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, we can spend all the time discussing whether it is good to decentralise competence to or from competence b, whether the competence should be in the government or in the municipality. But that is exactly what we hope the government has been doing with the municipalities in particular for over a year and a half. It is because Parliament does what the CFP proposes, for example, in a proposal for a amendment to the State budget, which was, by law, to prohibit contracts for the passage of competences in education, is something that is deeply wrong and demonstrative in a way of seeing the local power and the role of Parliament's centralism and democratic power. [[PCP protests.]] The CDS, Mr. President, has a long tradition of defending decentralization and transferring skills to municipalities for various reasons. The first is because municipalities are much more directly responsible for political options than the government itself. It is that the monks, often even in powers that are centralized, which are from the government, first ask their municipal chamber, their author, who is there at hand. It is therefore useful for the accountability of the quality of public services that it is as close to the population as possible. But not only, Mr. President. It is also important that municipalities and municipalities may have differentiated offers of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u182	...in education, health, social action or culture. Why? Because the municipalities are different. This is why a pilot program that includes different municipalities—municipalities of the interior, coastal municipalities, rural municipalities, urban municipalities—will serve exactly to realize what different types of offers are that different municipalities want for their population. And the adaptation of services to the needs of each municipality, of each municipality, is, Mr. President, a positive factor. And it's not sure how the PCP here insinuated a passage into the private sector. at least the municipalities of the CDS — finally, I do not know of the municipalities of the PCP — are certainly not the arm of the private sector in the provision of public services. If this happens in the municipalities of the PCP, we regret it. [[PCP protests.]] What I cannot but regret is the Socialist Party's pulling the gallons into decentralization here — Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, in the area of education, did so when she left in debt, for paying 72 million euros, that this government had to pay to the municipalities. It is that you were impeccable to pass powers, but whoever took over the financial envelope was the government that came next, the taxpayers who came next. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And in these contracts that we now sign here, you are or are not, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the financial envelope specified and implemented between municipalities and the Government? And whether or not it was still recently — in fact, this has not been mentioned here — changed the ratios of non-teaching staff in education, which the Socialist Party was also quick to decentralise, but very slow to adapt to the realities of schools and various authorities? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u183	I want to say one last thing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u184	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u185	Who represents the populations of the Portuguese municipalities are their authorships. Who has the power to decentralise what is centralized is the government. Those who should not interfere in this process are the party directories, they are the headquarters of the parties, because those who are representing the people and were elected by the people were the chamber presidents, they were the autoarchs who are on the spot; they were certainly not the general secretaries or bureaucrats of the various parties. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u186	Mr Fernando Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to commend the Government for scheduling this debate and to bring to this Parliament a clear proposal for decentralization and delegation of competence in municipalities and inter-municipal entities, contained in Decree-Law No 30 / 2015. It is therefore a compliment to this government, led by the PSD and the CDS, which once again proves to be in line with the concerns with local power and its autonomy. The debate here today is the culmination of a process that began with the Green Paper on Local Administration Reform, followed by a set of diplomas, which I am willing to refer here, mentioning only one of the last ones, which establishes the legal regime of local authorities, approves the status of inter-municipal entities, establishes the legal regime of the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approves the legal regime of associationism. And now, following Law No. 75 / 2013, this decree establishing the system of delegation of competence in municipalities and intermunicipal entities. Administrative decentralisation is also one of the pillars of State reform. The pilot study with two inter-municipal communities and the Approximar programme are examples of this desire and the Government's will to improve the quality of the services provided to the populations, through responses adapted to local specificities and the rationalization of available resources, in short, to promote territorial cohesion. This initiative now presented once again reveals not only the reformist momentum of this government but also the fulfilment of a promise for many years. It should be remembered that Law No 159 / 99 provided that « The set of tasks and powers established(...) will be progressively transferred to the municipalities in the four years following their entry into force ». And what happened, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The State's successive budgets were extending the deadline, without any government having tabled legislative proposals to date. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u188	It was certainly not due to lack of time,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u189	... since we have had 10 years of socialist governance, which leads us to question who is, in fact, centralist and who is a friend of the authorities and the autonomy of local power. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese municipalities are responsible for the major transformation carried out in the country in these 40 years of democracy. It was thanks to the autonomy of local power and the commitment of the autoarchs that built the basic infrastructures fundamental to the well-being of the populations. The Portuguese authorities, irrespective of the political force for which they were elected, have always gone beyond their competences in defending the best interests of their people and have therefore for many years defended decentralization and demanded more competences. That is why they deserve a word of recognition today and can only be satisfied with this proposal, because this Government is finally implementing such important measures, as provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and so many times promised and never put into practice. This is not a universal and definitive transfer of competence. This model imposes nothing against the will of the authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u190	This process was widely discussed, as has already been said, not only in the Territorial Concertation Council, but also with the regional governments, with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), with the metropolitan areas and the intermunicipal communities and with so many other agents of the local administration. This government has chosen, well, to implement decentralization in a progressive and phased way, through pilot projects, by contractualization with the municipalities. Thus, the equality of all municipalities concerned is ensured and the transfer of the financial resources necessary for the provision of the public service is guaranteed. The areas now proposed for decentralization of competences are those that have long been referred to and in which municipalities already have an active intervention. Today, we take another important step in the valorization and autonomy of local power and in the recognition of the role of the autarchs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u191	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u192	Mr President, Minister, your answers to the questions I have raised are indeed worthy of registration. Let's see. The question was this: have local government workers been heard? What did they say? Mr Minister's reply: Local government workers will not be harmed. We agree, Minister, that the answer was next door. If this were an examination, it would certainly have gone down. In fact, this response reminded me of the college times in which, when we had doubts or did not know the matter well, we would simply say that the doctrine was divided. Here, the Minister knows the answer; he does not want to say it. Mr. Minister doesn't mean he heard everyone, but he didn't hear the local government workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u193	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u194	Then I asked if the teachers were heard and what they said. And Mr. Minister didn't say either. And I didn't say, not because I didn't know. Mr. Minister knows he heard everyone, but he didn't hear the teachers either. And on the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, Minister, here, not a word. And this is where it was important for you to say something. It is because the Government says that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities agrees. But the opinions of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which I have read recently, come to deny the government, say that the government is missing the truth. So it was good for Mr. Minister to say something about that. Then Mr. Secretary of State said he heard, heard and heard the groupings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u195	Every grouping! Every director!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u196	Mr. Secretary of State, with regard to listening to the groupings, do you know what those responsible for school directors' organizations have said? They said they were called to Lisbon, not to talk, but to listen. In other words, the government has not heard, the government has owed. That is why the Government is practically isolated in defending this decentralization. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u197	Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u198	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government of which you are a member, Minister, assumes education as one of your priorities. He does so within the framework of a huge financial requirement. It does this by managing well the resources invested and which are always scarce. Do this by focusing action on the student's interests. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u199	Data to be known contradict the theory of the destruction of public school, such as early school dropout, which fell from 28, 7% in 2010 to 18, 9 % in 2013. This path has not been free from problems — problems we have inherited, problems that occur every day in schools, problems created by self-reliance. We know we have problems, problems to solve and delays to recover. Every day we work to improve our education system, as evidenced by yesterday's portfolio and which strengthens the number of non-teaching staff, in order to ensure better conditions of follow-up to our students. In time of great effort, we had the help and understanding of the educational community: students, parents, teachers, non-teaching staff, institutions, companies and autarchs. Everyone making sure none of them stay behind. We therefore want to make it clear that we trust people and their institutions. In particular, we want to make it clear that we trust in the work, the commitment and dedication of the autarchs. We want to leave our conviction that Portuguese authors take education as a priority and as an inseparable factor in the development, attractiveness and competitiveness of their territory. Mr President, on the decentralization of competences in education, it is important that some ideas are reaffirmed and others are removed, which have only served to contaminate this debate. This project—we have already had the opportunity to state in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture—is done on the basis of a pilot project, built in dialogue at the local level. It is, we stress, proposed and not taxed. It is not imposed on schools, it is not imposed on municipalities. This project is not the passage from the link of the teaching body of the Ministry of Education to the chambers, it is not the transition from the management of the teaching body of the groups to the authorities, it is not an incentive to dispensation or requalification of the teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u200	Mrs. Members, over time, when everyone has been in favour of decentralization, particularly in the area of education, there is a government that advances with transparency, prudently and in dialogue, through a pilot project, which starts, as I said, from a local construction, which seeks to cover different political sensibilities and different territorial realities, where all educational agents are called to the decision-making process, unlike other models implemented, where they were simply called to adhere. finally, the pilot project exists if this is the will of schools and municipalities. I shall conclude by saying that this is the debate that will separate those who respect the will of those who make the day-to-day school from those who want it in everything dependent on the central State and without any autonomy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u201	Mrs. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. First of all, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As was clear in the debate that we have just done, the Government intends to move forward with this process without listening to all the recipients of the new responsibilities. And those who have heard are not in favour of the process moving forward. In fact, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, in addition to the negative opinion it has produced on this process, still expresses great concern about the absolutely unique situation to which we are going to attend. Let's see. in the area of education, for example, we will have the following puzzle or puzzle: we will have 90 municipalities to exercise some competences, subject to certain rules; we will have 15 municipalities that will exercise competence in the same areas, but subject to other rules; and we will have 203 municipalities to exercise the competencies generally provided for in the law. A confusion of results more than doubtable. It is also clear that the guiding sense of this decentralization has nothing to do with the concern of a democratic nature and, at the very least, with the improvement of public services provided to citizens, because they have long since ceased to have any relevance to this government. This government only seeks to de-responsibility and save money with the social functions of the State. Do you doubt it? Let us note this example: between the first and the second version of the document, the Government has dropped the unqualified invitation to the municipal chambers to cut teachers up to the limit of 5 % of the number deemed necessary, to exchange some €12,500 for each teacher who has been killed. The Government has dropped the invitation, it is true, but it has not given up its purpose and, in the new version, the Government now extends the savings to all educational resources and establishes the sharing of the cake of the slaughtered by 50 %. The government says they are incentives for efficiency. And we say this is a shame. essentially, this second version maintains the most harmful aspects of government claims: the decision-making powers of schools continue to be withdrawn; competences relating to the management of teaching staff continue to be transferred; the financial premiums to municipalities continue to be present as incentives to the court in financing education and continues to be disinvestment in public education. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens have nothing against decentralization, quite the contrary. But serious decentralisation must be done in line with the municipalities, and not, as the government wants, in a process where the government unilaterally establishes before the conditions and objectives and then the municipalities adhere or do not adhere: "You want, you want; you don't want, you don't want". It happens that we are not talking about insurance contracts, we are not talking about general contractual clauses, where freedom of provision of clauses is not present. We are talking about decentralization and, therefore, in this important area, short contracts should not even be considered the most proposed. We defend the decentralization of competences, but in a weighted process, widely consensualized between the parties involved, which is territorially balanced, to be accompanied by adequate financial resources and, above all, that aims to better respond to people's needs. Serious decentralization will have to be associated with a process of implementation of the administrative regions, which can promote the creation of an intermediate government structure, duly equipped with broad competences and capable of harmonizing policies and resources. In conclusion, I would like to say that this proposal which the Government presents to us in general contractual terms of accession contracts, leaving the territory at the pace of various speeds, has nothing to do with decentralization, has nothing to do with regionalization and has nothing to do with the interests of people and with the improvement of public services provided to citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u203	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. This proposal has only two very clear purposes: the first is that the Government intends to continue its path of de-responsibility with regard to the social functions of the State; the second is that we should, in our opinion, give useful support to the draft of the State reform of the Deputy Prime Minister Paulo Portas, which must have actually done a lot of work. But do not call for decentralisation of this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u206	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u207	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister, in his initial speech, wanted to place this debate on the basis of the interest and commitment of this Government in decentralization of policies, decisions and in stressing the importance of local autonomy. In fact, it was even very cautious to say that all this would be in line with the cameras. Mr Minister, we cannot ignore, in this debate, all the behaviour and attitude of the Government towards local authority, and we will also, through it, make an analysis of these proposals called decentralization, which the Government now brings at the end of the mandate. He is certainly responsible for his Government's decision to stop the 35 hour schedule for local government workers. If it has to do with the autonomy of local power and its capacity and sovereignty in the decision, it is precisely that there are 35 hours and the working time. And what did the government do? I refer to your Government, Minister and Secretary of State of the Local Administration. It used its power, in an arbitrary way, and does not publish the agreements freely concluded — I stress "freely" — between the unions and the authorities. Mr Minister, you do not leave this debate without explaining very well your concept of local autonomy and without saying why you are blocking it, putting into the drawer the agreements freely signed with regard to the organization of work within each local authority. I am no longer going as far as the CDS-PP Member, who has even come to say that the camera is sending in your territory! Yeah, you look good! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the conclusions of this debate. Firstly, it was absolutely clear that there was no decentralisation; there was a delegation of powers, through an inter-administrative contract, I recommend the council. This is a process, on the one hand, which is not transparent and, on the other hand, very unequal. We don't even know what's going to happen, I recommend the council on these various matters. Then see, Mr Minister, the sector where something more concrete is known: education. No one, but no one, agrees with the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u208	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u209	Mr President, there is no partner in this matter! Associations of parents, associations of school directors, unions, National Association of Portuguese Municipalities — where does the Minister have a partner to accompany him in this matter? You can't see it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u210	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u211	Tens!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u212	Indeed, Mr Minister, how is it possible to conduct a genuine process of decentralization based on withdrawing competences from the autonomy of schools? Mr Minister, this is exactly the opposite. This is not about decentralising anything, because you withdraw autonomy from schools to give these powers to the municipal chambers. With this example, we are not actually going very far. It remains, however, by clarifying what will happen with regard to health, for example, such an important sector. Mr. Secretary of State Manuel Teixeira said nothing about that. It's in the air what's going on. But, Mr. Secretary of State, don't worry because it's not hard to predict what's going to happen. [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u213	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u214	Madam President, I would like to ask you just a little bit of tolerance. The government could respond to the authorities, who are very concerned, for example, with the situation of emergencies in their municipalities, who want to know what is happening with health centres, who are not conditioned, with the lack of family doctors... How do we start with the health of Portuguese and Portuguese? It wouldn't be a bad idea. I shall finish by saying that the Minister has announced as a priority of the decentralised government, but it has been very little, Mr Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u215	So, is it little or much? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u216	And this debate was indeed a measure of real propaganda at the end of the term of office. But as far as decentralization is concerned, we are not going there, Minister! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u217	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is undeniable that the country needs decentralisation in order to deburocrate itself, in order to combat regional asymmetries, in order to develop economically and socially. It is also unforgettable that it is necessary to change the administrative organization according to those objectives, decentralizing and deconcentrating the structure of the State, but also advancing in the discussion of critical aspects such as the political participation of populations or the establishment of democratically legitimate bodies, including the creation of administrative regions or what should be the framework of specific tasks of each level of the State's structure and administrative organization. But that is not what the Government, PSD and CDS-PP wanted with this debate. We are not faced with a serious debate on decentralization of competences. What is actually under discussion today is the deresponsibility of the Government in fulfilling its obligations in guaranteeing fundamental and universal rights. PSD and CDS don't want to decentralize. How can they want to decentralize when their concrete action has led to the concentration and closure of schools, health centres, social security services, culture and support for productive sectors and the economy? How can they want to decentralise when their concrete action has led to the shortage of workers in these public services? How can they want to decentralise when their concrete action has removed the conditions for the authorities to develop their already consolidated skills framework?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u220	In addition to the deresponsibility of the government, it intends to transfer to the authorities the burden of the discontent of the populations to continue the policy of dismantling the social functions of the State. In summary, it is irresponsible and pushes to the authorities charges, costs and dissatisfaction. They accuse us of being centralists, but it was the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP that over the years have closed, concentrated and merged public administration services, always delaying the CFP's proposals for the realization of a constitutional design — the creation of administrative regions. [[PCP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the diploma that supports this process, Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015, published yesterday, demonstrates the accusation we make to the PSD Government / CDS. The Government speaks of decentralization, but what it proposes is not the transfer of competences from the central State to the authority's own competence framework, it is a model of contractualization, which is based on the right to control the execution of these powers by the authorities, imposing a protection of merit, in a clear disregard for its autonomy and which, above all, is not accompanied by the resources necessary for its proper development, by imposing that there is no increase in these resources. For this government, in addition to the authorities, they are not entities with a framework of autonomy, nor are they merely enforcers of their policy, subjecting them to their interests and objectives. The Government has imposed measures which have already been rejected by the authorities, workers and populations. We announce that the PCP Parliamentary Group will deliver today a request for parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 that proceeds from the transfer of competence to the authorities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government, the PSD and the CDS did not want to discuss decentralization. Today's debate is about a new phase in the process of reconfiguration of the State, in which the universality of social rights is compromised and the attack on the social functions of the State and public services deepens so that in the end everything will be privatized or dismantled. What lies behind the discourse of decentralization used by this PSD/CDS government are more attacks on public school, the National Health Service, the system of solidarity of social security, the degradation of heritage, cultural equipment and the end of support for the arts. The Government has taken measures leading to a more unequal country at various speeds, calling into question social and territorial cohesion. These measures can only be guaranteed with the responsibility of the central State in this regard. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal needs a decentralisation aimed at progressing and deepening democracy, which modernises the administrative organisation and meets the demands that social, economic and demographic changes bring to the lives of Portuguese people, guaranteeing the rights of citizens and solving their problems. Portugal needs a decentralization that responds to current problems but also projects the future based on social and territorial cohesion objectives that guarantee a more just and solidarity country. Portugal needs this decentralization, but in order to do so, it needs an alternative policy and another government that implements it. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u221	Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u222	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate has perhaps been the most clarifying of this Parliament. It was clear who the real centralists are and who do everything to disguise and whistle to the side. It is clear who trusts in local power and those who doubt the local power. It was clear who think only in elections and not in future generations and in the real interest of the country and the good functioning of the State. Obviously, the Left Block and the Communist Party, always centralists and not available to give in to autonomy to whoever they were, they did everything, invented everything and even raised questions of semantics instead of going specifically to problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u223	The CDS voted against regionalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u224	What about the Socialist Party? The PS continues with a mistake, or a vice, in the formulation of the will. Sometimes he thinks well, usually executes badly and is filled with envy when someone performs better the ideas he has always defended. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I recall what the Socialist Party said in its Agenda for the Decade: « A closer state is a state that looks at decentralization as an opportunity to value its resources effectively and efficiently ». This is exactly what we are helping to achieve. This government obviously has a mark. The mark of the true partner, whether of industry or of trade, whether of Portuguese in general. Why? Because this government has fought fiercely against bureaucracy, simplifying the rules of tourism, environmental rules — with the single environmental licensing — but also simplifying the responsible industry and trade. Now, the government is giving a vote of confidence to the authorities, to the local authority, making a decentralisation, which is a true partnership agreement with those exercising local power. We could ask: was this done against the autarchs or without hearing them? It's proven no. It was done with and listening to the autarchs. Has this been done without the necessary transfer of financial resources? Don't! It was done with the necessary financial package, which the Socialist Party, in the past, did not. Has this been done taking into account the specificity of each territory? Of course it was! For those who have been an autocratic candidate in this new generation of local power, which is no longer the infrastructure, but it is the exploitation of human resources, people and territory, decentralization is a clear answer to this new challenge. Should a author be attentive to what is happening in the health area of your municipality? Of course you must! Should the government give conditions to the author to be closer, to be more efficient and effective, to meet areas where the government is slow to arrive or is it less effective? Of course you must! It is possible with this decentralization. Should an author assume responsibilities in the area of education of his or her municipality or in his or her area of influence in supramunicipal terms? Of course you must! Should the municipality or association of municipalities look at the society and the potential of its territory and find educational projects that potentiate this reality? Of course you must! in this decentralization, are you or are you not looking forward to it? Should or should not an author look at social action, enhancing what exists there, such as the installed capacity of a set of IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and of mercy, in order to be able to reach faster, closer and support those who do merit work in the field of social support? Of course you must! Should the Government prevent a municipality or an association of municipalities from improving this proximity of social service to populations? Of course you shouldn't! What did the government do? It facilitated, supported and encouraged that it was done. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I shall finish by saying — and that is why this is a clarification debate — that we will have a new generation of authentic power. Today, the authorities and the autarchs are better prepared and have more means to be more efficient. It would be wrong for the State not to look at and trust someone for this power level, for this potential, for these services that are now at the disposal of the populations more efficiently, closer, and wanted only to look at itself and continue to be centralist. I congratulate the Government and I hope that the Socialist Party, forgetting the elections a little bit, but taking on commitments from the past and even its proposals, can say that yes and can collaborate with this process, because this process dignified the democracy, the government and the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u225	Mr Mota Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u226	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today's debate has been particularly relevant, not only because of the theme it has addressed, but above all because of the moment it took place. It is that this debate has ended four years frankly disturbing from the point of view of decentralization policies, not to mention the others. They were four years marked by the successive subtraction of competences in areas such as water management and licensing, in which the presence of the authorities was fundamental, in fact, even to eliminate 1169 parish, in which many of them were, through their president, the last presence of the State in the territory. It was four years in which several regional directions were closed or emptied of power. This debate took place without evidence of any study or debate on models of competence, financing and transfer of resources, as well as new perspectives for the organization of the State brought by the constitutional debate, as had been affirmed by the Assembly of the Republic and the Country in the Government programme. This debate took place just over six months after the elections, when the government finds itself limited in its capacity to conclude public partnership contracts, the core of the diploma so proclaimed, yet far from the great designs contained in the government programme, which you saw yesterday in the light of the day, as a pillar of a pretensely reformist agenda. I am sorry to say that, but we have reached the end of today's debate with certainty: the absolute failure of the current government in the field of decentralization. It may even be said that there are certain people to whom the failure comes to mind and I fear well, Minister, that this is your case. And the proven evidence is the Power Point that just introduced us. [[PSD protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, decentralization is the cornerstone of state reform and therefore a clear and precise foundation is required. from there the PS presents in this Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution to confront the diploma that has now been referred to us with the studies that have served as its support. That is why, to the model of assistanceist decentralization of public policies that the Government wants to undertake, in a gross, uncoordinated manner and in open war with the main recipients, the municipalities and the parish, the Socialist Party opposes a framework of true policies of decentralization, inducers of economic, social and environmental development, because they are based on a model of territorial base and on structural changes in the governance of the public thing, and in which the authorities, at all levels, are considered equal, as true partners. As we believe that the organization of State administration and public policies should be based on a territorial base model, it would not be possible to do so. This is a model which, in anticipation of the contractualization of powers, involves, above all, the reinforced forecast of powers to authorities in compliance with the principles of university and equity and the requirements of unity and efficiency of administrative action. It would not have been wrong for the government if it had taken inspiration from what was done in Lisbon, but that was not its choice. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not entirely reasonable to announce reforms in this way and much less to start any structural change in public governance, although this diploma is far from being achieved. Only a new government will be able to design schemes of shared exercises of competence through the delegation of competences with a minimum normative density that will allow the promotion of an efficient balance in the articulation of powers from the point of view of equality and the guarantee of non-discrimination. That is what is required in a democratic rule of law. This is what our authorities deserve. This is what our citizens demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u227	Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on State reform and the decentralization of competences that took place today in this Chamber was the opportunity that many people longed to discuss, with a high sense of responsibility, a topic of greater importance for Portugal and the Portuguese. The decentralization of competences is a matter that has come to be considered by all political actors and even by many governments in democratic history. This government, in turn, had the courage to move forward with an ambitious, flexible, phased and widely involved project of bringing the state closer to its citizens and putting it into practice. In particular, I am referring to the decentralization project that until a few days ago represented a commitment that took up almost unanimity from political parties and today unfortunately became a political weapon for some. We understand, then, that the largest party in the opposition, the same one that has been making a decentralizing speech at various times and that it defends decentralisation as a cornerstone of State reform, the same as in 2008 "discharged" in the municipalities a set of competences of the central administration, in a practically unilateral and without dialogue, the same one that left a debt of about EUR 72 million from the Ministry of Education, precisely from that delegation of competence, and that then, of course, this government had to regulate, that party, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the Socialist Party that today, and once again, did not come to the debate to present contributions to the decentralization model... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... but only to weave considerations about the form and process as this should be done. You don't understand this irremediable habit of wasting more time discussing the form and less time, I would say much less time, discussing the content. It is not understood that there are policies that are related to small policies and not to policies, especially when we are faced with a fundamental pillar of State reform. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we need a more decentralized and more decentralized Portugal now! The OECD itself defended this need because, according to Eurostat, Portugal is still 10 percentage points above the European average in terms of power concentration in the Central State. However, it is necessary here to make it clear that this government has had the courage that many others have missed. This government has been working on the process of decentralization for many months. It did not start yesterday, nor did it start a month ago; this government has long taken concrete steps towards a more decentralized public administration and the Approximar programme, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an example of many others who have been mentioned here today. The Approximar program results in a partnership with local authorities or other entities and has already begun to be implemented allowing Portuguese to enjoy, within a short period of time, an extended network of citizen spaces, a citizen store in each municipality and of citizens' vans to be circulated in low-density territories. Now, with the publication of the decree establishing the system of delegation of competences in municipalities and inter-municipal entities, the Government has taken another step, a step as a giant in the process of decentralization of competences in the field of social functions. He has designed and approved a process that has long been claimed by the authors of this country, who have always longed to strengthen the role of municipalities in areas essential to the population, such as education, culture, social action and health. It has designed and approved the delegation of competences in areas where people need the most and where the answers have to be even better and where we have no doubt that proximity can make all the difference in the improvement and speed of public services provided. It also drew up and approved the transfer of financial and capital resources, better saying the transfer of the resources necessary for the provision of the public service. Finally, he designed and approved a phased and gradual delegation of competences, whose membership will be free and voluntary, and which resulted in a wide negotiation with all the partners involved. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, decentralization of competences is a process in which we review ourselves and find advantages. We also admit that many areas of the social functions of the State are exercised more efficiently and better by the local administration, recognized as a subsector of the State with evidence given in the proper management of public resources. Therefore, or also for that reason, we have no doubt that decentralization of competence is a pillar of the reform of the State for which it is worth fighting. And it is worth fighting in the name of improving the quality of the public service provided, in respect of the autonomy of the democratic local power and in a sign of consideration by all the entities involved in the negotiation process that is still under way. Finally, with the absolute conviction that a government that decentralizes is a government that believes and trusts the capacities of local power, believes and trusts the construction of a more just, more supportive, more equitable country. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we trust the authorities, we trust the autarchs, we trust the local power. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u230	by the Government, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Regional Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this debate, I must say, on the one hand, that I was not surprised — and the Government was not surprised — by the position of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, which confirmed its centralist matrix. The opposition to this process is merely a consequence of the ideological position of these parties. Unfortunately, after this debate, we still do not understand why the Socialist Party opposes this decentralization. Nor did the draft resolution they had promised.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u232	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u233	The only point that was contained in the various interventions was the reference to the proximity of the elections. The position of the Government and the position of this majority is that the country cannot be paralyzed pending elections at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u235	What the project and this process demonstrate by the government and the majority is that the reformist impulse that has marked our action remains, and will remain-CL until the end of the legislature. The PS seems to think that the proximity of the elections should cause it to change the position it has always taken on decentralization! I understand you're nervous about the proximity of the elections. to the Socialist Party things are not running as they expected and the Messiah is proving to be a false prophet! Open... Today they probably got a little more nervous because the economy accelerated growth in the last quarter based, as INE data say, on external demand. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] That is, what the Socialist Party has been saying, that there was an inversion of the new growth model based on external demand, is not confirmed; on the contrary, what these data indicate is that the economy continues to recover, accelerated its rate of growth and is doing so on the basis of a sustainability process based on the greatest volume of exports in history. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So it is natural that this makes the Socialist Party nervous. [[PS protests.]] The topic of decentralization is very important for the country, it is a topic we have talked about over decades. I ask the Socialist Party to take a break in your way of just thinking about elections. Think in the interests of the country,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u236	... because we cannot continue, as has happened over the decades, talking about the need to decentralise and then never realize this decentralization. It is, today, of course, why this happened like this. Following the logic of the Socialist Party, a legislature begins, we start talking about decentralization and we need more studies, more studies, more time to debate, more discussion, more debate...! Remember me a little — I, who am academic —... [[Ah!Oh, my ……]] [[Ah!Oh, my ……]] [[Ah!Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u237	... those teachers, whom I admire, some of them, who spend their entire lives working in the masterpiece, say "It's not yet this year that I'm going to finish the masterpiece" or "I continue to work in the book because it's not perfect enough" and then finish the career and never publish anything! [[PSD laughter.]] [[PS protests.]] It is time to achieve decentralization! There is a project on the table, there is an ongoing process, join us and work together in this process, join the authorities, who have actively participated in this process, who have discussed with us and who will be involved and conclude these contracts, as I have said, on a voluntary basis. Decentralization is fundamental, as I have had the opportunity to say. The degree of centralization that our country has is unacceptable. I can show you the ladies. Members where Portugal is located at this level. [[Right now, the Minister has displayed a chart.]] We cannot continue with this reality and fight this reality only with words, which is the only thing the Socialist Party seems to know how to do: says words, words, words... Collaborate, implement, present suggestions, concrete opinions, contributions to this process, nothing, zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u238	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u239	And today, again, zero! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Decentralization is essential because it brings better information about the problems, proximity offers more and better information to better solve these problems, allows to adapt public policies to different realities of the territory,... [[PS protests.]] ... allows to match different preferences in different local communities, allows for more immediate, more direct accountability. These are the advantages of decentralization. This is what we have to discuss, which is the best way to achieve these advantages. And in education, which has been so spoken, decentralization has a very important role. The decentralization we are implementing—not the ghosts that the Communist Party and the Left Block wanted to bring... Let me make it clear: there was not, nor is there, any incentive for municipalities to fire teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u240	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u241	... not even municipalities have any management power over teachers, there is no decentralisation regarding the teaching body. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Local-based contractualization can only be done, and according to the school, if there are no human resources in the grouping.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u242	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u243	So stop creating ghosts, which do not exist in this matter. Decentralisation in education is extremely relevant. There are international studies, including an OECD study, which says that the most important factor — and this should concern, above all, the parties who say themselves with great social concerns! — in promoting social mobility, i.e. in promoting that people can rise in life according to their merits, is education. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do you know what this study also indicates about the most relevant educational model for education to contribute to social mobility? It is not even the volume of public investment, it is the model of government of this education and decentralization, in particular. The most centralized states in education are those in which education contributes most to social mobility and that is why we have to implement this process, which is why this process has to be put into practice, as the government has done. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But we will continue to develop this process, as we have done so far in dialogue. And, as I said, there is no better proof of this than the fact that accession to these delegation contracts is voluntary: the municipalities that understand it participate, we do not impose any competence on any municipality. If decentralization has not been achieved in the past, it is also because of lack of trust in the authorities and citizens who have often been generated. That is why we have adopted a progressive, gradual process, which part of pilot projects, consensualized with municipalities, that will evaluate and monitor these pilot projects, which, based on this evaluation and monitoring, will improve this model of decentralization and then generalize it throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is a fundamental concern for us to implement this process, it is to value the local power, to offer Portuguese better public policies and better public services, and to value local power respecting the autonomy and freedom of local power. Even the Socialist Party, which only speaks in principle of decentralization, seems to have a vision of decentralization, itself, centralist, in practice. We believe and have acted to ensure that the decentralization process follows a decentralized method, in dialogue with the municipalities, in dialogue with the different relevant actors. This is what we have done, and this is how we will finally realize an ambition for decades throughout the country, a process of true decentralization. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u244	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the thematic debate required by the Government on decentralization, and I thank all those involved in the debate. Before we go into the voting period, I would like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members of the Government who have been present and who will, however, be withdrawn, ask the services which prepare the electronic system for verification of the quorum of deliberations and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 207 Members, to which the honourable Members add. PSD Members Amadeu Soares Alberaria, Armenio Santos, Cristóvão Crespo, Luís Montenegro and Luís Vales, PS Member Mota Andrade and CDS-PP Member Michael Seufert, who were unable to register, making it a total of 214 Members present. We shall then begin the legislative votes by beginning with three votes, the first of which is to be regretted. In the meantime, the Government informed the Bureau that it would remain in the Chamber to associate itself with the three votes that will be read and voted on here. Let us begin by voting No 251 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of former MP João Fernandes Manm ( CDS-PP ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Raúl de Almeida, to proceed with the reading of that vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u245	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last February 5, at the age of 69, the former Member of the Assembly of the Republic of João José de Sousa Fernandes Manm. Graduated in Business Management and Organization by ISE and career civil servant, João Fernandes Manm has been a member of the CDS since his early years, highlighting in particular the partisan implementation and civic activism in the city and district of Lisbon. The trade unionist was the first to respond to the call for the so-called "Open Letter" project and to participate in the creation of the UGT — General Workers' Union, within which it was incorporated, developing its trade union activity, in particular in SINTAP and SINCOL. He was one of the founders of the FTDC — Federation of Christian Democratic Workers, of which he was also Secretary-General. in the CDS, he has performed various leadership functions both locally and as a member of the National Council. And it was also elected several times on lists of the CDS and then AD — Democratic Alliance, for local functions at the level of parish and in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon. In 1980, he was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic and a Member of the CDS Parliamentary Group, elected on the joint lists of AD. Among the militants of the CDS, especially the oldest, who lived with him more closely, is remembered for their dedication and dynamism, for the loyalty and cordiality of their treatment and for the exemplary generosity that he placed in the public service and in the exercise of his civic spirit, as well as for the social and political intervention by affirming the ideals in which he believed. As follows: The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of former Member John Fernandes Man, to whom it expresses its honour, and conveys its deep solidarity to his family and to all his closest members."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u246	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you for a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I present the greetings of solidarity of the Bureau to the family present in the galleries. We now proceed to vote No 252 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Honored by General Humberto Delgado ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), to be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u247	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is now precisely 50 years ago that General Humberto Delgado has been brutally murdered by a team of PIDE agents, tried and convicted by the competent court after the Revolution of 25 April. Humberto Delgado galvanized the country when he applied for elections to the President of the Republic, in 1958, supported by the political forces of the Democratic Opposition. The courage of the General without fear—as soon as it was named—has awakened, in Portuguese and Portuguese, the hope of shaking, by electoral means, the yoke of the dictatorship and making Portugal transit to democracy. Falsely, the results of the elections, as was customary then, the dictatorial regime exerted fierce repression on the Democratic candidate and his main supporters, many of whom were arrested and tortured in PIDE prisons ; and, in order to block future vehements, the Constitution then in force was changed, eliminating the direct election of the President of the Republic. Forced to seek asylum, as politically persecuted, in the Brazilian Embassy, General Humberto Delgado set out for exile, from which he maintained a persistent fight against the dictatorship, until he was cowardly attracted to a citadel and murdered. Recognizing its outstanding and heroic role in the struggle for democracy, the Assembly of the Republic attributed to General Humberto Delgado — however, posthumously promoted to Marechal — Honors of Pantheon. not 50. the anniversary of his murder, the Assembly of the Republic bends before the memory of General Humberto Delgado and respectfully lends him a worthy tribute».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] We now proceed to vote No 253 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Congratulations on 25. the anniversary of the release of Nelson Mandela ( PCP ). I ask the Secretary, Mr. Jorge Machado, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u249	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on February 11 the 25th was completed. the anniversary of Nelson Mandela's release. Its liberation ended 28 years in the prisons of the apartheid regime and is indelibly associated with the heroic fight against the apartheid that the South African people have waged and the campaign of global solidarity for the release of prisoner No 46664. The celebration of Nelson Mandela's day of liberation cannot hide or erase what was these 28 years of imprisonment and why they existed. Nelson Mandela has been involved since his youth in the fight against apartheid and for the liberation of his people from the oppression and exploitation regime in South Africa. In 1942, he joined the African National Congress and in 1944, together with two other comrades— Walter Sisulu and Oliver Tambo—, founded the ANC Youth League, having played a prominent role in organizing the armed struggle against apartheid and in affirming the Tripartite Alliance, composed of the African National Congress, the South African Communist Party and the COSAT. In August 1962, Nelson Mandela was arrested and would be sentenced by the apartheid regime to life imprisonment, under the charge of the practice of acts of terrorism. in the 28 years in which he remained imprisoned by the apartheid regime, Nelson Mandela became a living symbol of the struggle for freedom, against racial discrimination and colonialism. Their liberation represented the victory of the heroic struggle of the people of South Africa and a cause for great joy for all those who, throughout the world, fought in solidarity to achieve this goal. After his release on 11 February 1990, Nelson Mandela began to lead a political process that put an end to apartheid. In 1993 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. This award reflected the recognition of its contribution to the overthrow of the apartheid segregationist regime. In 1994 he was elected President of the Republic of South Africa, who held office until 1999. The Assembly of the Republic honors the life, journey and struggle of Nelson Mandela, an example of dignity, courage and coherence and recalls the date of its liberation so that the significance and importance of that day for the South African people, the African continent and the world are not forgotten».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u250	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 253 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1249 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Spain ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1250 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission for the Management of BES and the Espírito Santo Group, to the process leading to the implementation of the resolution measure and its consequences, in particular with regard to developments and options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 769 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of domestic violence by amending the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September 2009 and the second amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 745 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the Child Protection Organization, ensuring greater protection for all victims of domestic violence and other forms of violence in the family context ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma is also lower than 1. the Commission. We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1220 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the public invitation to tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1190 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by revoking the private sub-concession process of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1251 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Announces the public tender for the sub-concession of the Port Metro, SA(BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1252 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Announces the public tender procedure for the sub-concession of the STCP — Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1255 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by maintaining the public management of STCP and Port Metro ( Os Verdes ) companies. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No 705 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Revokes special mobility and the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 748 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Common system of mobility between civil servants and civil servants ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CCP, BE and Os Verdes were rejected and the PS voted against the PS.]] Mr David Costa of the CFP asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u251	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u252	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 704 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour, on the proposal for a law No 255 / XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March regulating the social protection of crew members of vessels registered in the International Register of Madeira. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] Mr. David Costa has asked for the floor again. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u253	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u254	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, will take into account an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of 1. the Cable Section, J5, of the Central Authority of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 455 / 12.0GVPRT, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mrs Adelaide Canastro ( PSD ) to intervene within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-13.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be held next Wednesday at 3 p.m. and the agenda will be completed by the following points: urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on investment anemia, stagnation of the economy and social crisis. The joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 278 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector approved by Article 228. the Act No. 83 - C / 2013 of 31 December and Bill No. 779 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the Scheme establishing the Extraordinary Contribution to the Energy Sector ( CFP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all very late. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 52 minutes.]]
