ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. As you all know, today we have the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister, who has the frame of Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, meaning that the debate begins with the interventions of the parties, in this case the PSD, followed by the reply of the Prime Minister. So Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Prime Minister, during the last half-year debate, I have had the opportunity to say, and I also believe, to demonstrate, in a very clear and unequivocal way, that the opposition has failed all its forecasts. It failed when it said that the State budgets approved in this House were unrealistic and unrealistic and, in the end, Portugal has always met all the goals it has set; it failed when it said that the way that the country was following would bring a recessive spiral (a term that has not long been heard by the opposition) and uncontrollable unemployment, and what happens is that the country is growing and creating jobs today and unemployment is decreasing, having decreased from 17, 7 % to 13, 4 %, and, in the last 23 months, has decreased in 22 months. The opposition failed in its macroeconomic forecasts, Mr Prime Minister, but it failed, above all, in the strategy. First, he anticipated that we would not comply with the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme in due course. Then he predicted we'd have a second rescue. And then he tried to scare the Portuguese, saying that we would leave the Program with a cautious line and that there were more austerity measures that would penalize the lives of the Portuguese. But it also failed there, because objectively not only did not come more austerity as recovery measures came. As to: the national minimum wage increased, after the Socialist Party had frozen it; the minimum pensions increased, after the Socialist Party had frozen them; the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ended, which was also created by the Socialist Party, for pensions less than €4611; the Public Administration saw their income being restored, the same as they had been cut off by the Government of the Socialist Party; and the tax advantages began to arrive, either to the families or to the companies, in measures against which the opposition and the Socialist Party had been. Mr. Prime Minister, I remember here these facts and these failures of predicting the Socialist Party and the opposition to nude the little value of the arguments and the narrative of the opposition. Be to Greece's situation, be it to the ride - stop! — the reports of the International Monetary Fund, whether recently to the issue of a statement by the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, want to demonstrate the demonstrable, i.e. that the government strategy has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u3	It is ‘putting the sauce beards’!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u4	The loas that were still woven into Mr Juncker's statement yesterday are hilarious, if they had not insisted on themselves any rejection, but rather a lack of shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u5	Are you talking about the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u6	Mr Prime Minister, who has indeed dealt with the Troika of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme? [[Who's that? Who was it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u7	If the government had not said so without tibias and had not begun to implement the Programme, how would we have come to the end of the Programme? How could we have made some of the objectives of this initial programme negotiated by the previous government have been flexible? How would we have had the ability and credibility to renegotiate interest, which had also been negotiated by the previous government? Mr. Prime Minister, was the Program difficult, was it demanding? Of course it was! Was it, in many ways, ill-designed? We always said yes, that it was, in many respects, ill-designed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u8	Name included? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u9	But what margin did we have at that time, Prime Minister? We will return to 2011, at the beginning of this walk: what margin did we have in Portugal at that time? Were we going to hesitate? Were we going to protest or would we show that we had the capacity to meet our commitments?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u11	The Portuguese have made efforts, and many, and they still make many efforts. But the opposition wants to talk about dignity? So, Prime Minister, let us tell Europe, because it is the purest of truths that the Portuguese have been worthy of the commitments they have made with Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Portugal, the Portuguese people gave Europe a demonstration of its dignity: it has committed itself and fulfilled. And it was because you have fulfilled your commitments that have regained your voice in Europe, which you see Europe today cancel our proposal for early repayment of loans from the International Monetary Fund and, with that negotiation, you will save many millions of interest that would have to be spent by the Portuguese. It was because we have fulfilled the Programme that, today, Portugal is regaining its ability to attract investment. It was because we have fulfilled the Programme, Prime Minister, that we have grown up again, that we have continued to grow exports, on top of performances that were already the best of all time. In 2014 we again hit the record in terms of export capacity. It was also because we have fulfilled the Programme that today we can fund ourselves at the most advantageous interest rates ever — always, Prime Minister, even before we had the crisis we had!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u13	And it was also because we recovered the credibility, Prime Minister, that the Portuguese Government is now objectively an active part of very important decisions in the European Union. It was because we had credibility, because we had negotiating capacity, for example, that we had success in the negotiations of the Structural Funds, that we had due diligence in many of our proposals in the banking union, that we had a relevant intervention in defining new crisis management mechanisms, and that we also had an advantage in important sectoral negotiations, such as in the field of energy. Mr Prime Minister, it is even curious that we can see today that some governments which are put forward by the opposition, particularly the Socialist Party, as the example—such as the French Government or even the Italian Government—are proposing some structural reforms (see, for example, in the field of work) which we have undertaken in Portugal for a few years now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u14	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u15	And, moreover, they go even further in what the left and the Socialist Party often say is the attack on workers' rights, they go much further than what we went with the modernization of our labour rules in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u16	It's a fact! That is why they are no example to anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u17	In fact, it is looking at this Europe, which recognises this capacity, and these governments, which are also supporting the reformist momentum that the Portuguese Government has had in the past, that we can say that Portugal and the Portuguese have given a true lesson of dignity to Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u18	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u19	Mr Prime Minister, when some say that Portugal today has a government in Europe that defends it and that this is the Government of Greece, Mr Prime Minister, I honestly believe that they do not know what they say.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u20	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u21	And when others understand that Greece's solution is that it will solve our problems, I think it is appropriate to say that what some and others are doing is insulting the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u23	... to insult the capacity of this country, the capacity of families, Portuguese companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u24	Time's up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u25	I will finish, Madam President. Greece is a democracy, it has made and will make its choices, there is no doubt, and we are not indifferent to this process. But before that, Mr Prime Minister, there is indeed the dignity of Portugal. The Portuguese also made their choices: they assigned this majority to transform Portugal. While some have been asking for early elections for four years, to want to bring instability to Portugal, which would be so bad for the lives of the Portuguese, the truth is that this majority and this government have worked and today we can see that Portugal is a country without troika, a country with credibility, a country with autonomy, a country that is growing. Finally, today we can see that Portugal is truly a country with a future. Mr. Prime Minister, is that it or isn't it? Do we have or do we have results that testify that the way we travel was the right way? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u26	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Mr Luís Montenegro, I am not going to comment on all the aspects you have mentioned, but I am going to try to lay down two plans which, I think, are very important and which, moreover, you mentioned. The first is to see that we are today benefiting from conditions that have not been offered to us by grace, but from conditions that we have been able to build to achieve essential results for the future of the Portuguese. First of all—and it is worth stressing—because this data officially occurred after having been here in the last fortnight debate— were disclosed by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) the numbers, the rapid estimate for the national accounting of the last quarter of 2014, showing what was our conviction, that the Portuguese economy in 2014 had grown, according to the rapid estimate of the INE, about 0, 9 %. The Government's estimate was 1 %. We are therefore very close to what our estimate was. We are obviously waiting for the first days of March to confirm the most disaggregated data of this estimate now presented by INE, but no one expects it to be essentially different from what the data have already revealed. The Portuguese economy grew on an annual basis, after having invested, from the first quarter of 2013 — we already know that for some time — the sense of recession. Although it was still in negative ground in 2013, the economy turned around and began to recover right at the beginning of the first quarter, therefore at the beginning of 2013. And we managed, in 2014, to grow. We did it with recovery of domestic demand, but with a positive contribution from exports, which in 2014 reached its most significant value ever. Internal demand, however, also revealed an investment revival, which was material that had been lost for many years. And the rate of return on investment exceeded the consumption of durable goods, which means, therefore, that we have something healthy to do in the Portuguese economy. This is the first factual fact that needs to be emphasized. The second data had to do with recent emissions that were made at 10 years and 1 year, which allowed Portugal's lowest debt placement rates that there is memory. This means that today, given that these placements are made on the market and that they are essentially agents outside the economy that are looking for these emissions, the Portuguese economy and the Portuguese state deserve the confidence of investors, from the start of investors in the public debt market. The third aspect, which was also known, was the authorization we received from our partners to raise the parity and step condition that will allow us to make the early repayment to the International Monetary Fund of about EUR 14 billion of the loans that would be won in the coming years. And this condition that was offered to us was proposed by us insofar as objectively the market conditions to which Portugal today manages access are more favourable than those that have been contracted with the International Monetary Fund. So let us save in the future by paying in advance to the International Monetary Fund a part of these loans. But the rules require that our European partners, who have also lent us under conditions that have been agreed almost simultaneously, do not mind that we are amortizing, first, loans and then others. This condition was contractual and it was necessary to obtain from it the necessary authorization. This authorization, in terms of which it has been expressed, shows great confidence on the part of all our European partners in the recovery we are making and in our ability to benefit more quickly from the market conditions we have also been able to create. Mr Luís Montenegro has announced many other facts, but since the last debate, I think these three are significant, because they show that there are reasons for the Portuguese to have confidence in the growth of the economy that is being generated, because they show that all external investors have confidence in the robustness of the growth that we are tracking and relying on the ability of the Portuguese state to honour their commitments and because they show the confidence of our European partners with the measures we have come to implement and with the results we have been presenting. Trust, trust, trust — this, Mr Commissioner, is perhaps the most important value for those who want to solve future sustainability problems, for those who want to solve problems related to public policies and the need to give future health, education, social support, but also to sovereignty functions, that is, to which a State is indispensable to be able to guarantee as long as it is solvent. Mr President, I believe that this is perhaps the fact that it will highlight the importance of the path we have taken. So, more than it is going back — although you have remembered it — to our starting conditions, which were extremely adverse, in fact, what we can say is that we have overcome them and, therefore, we do not see the need to always be back to this debate. Another aspect relates to the comment that you have made about the dignity of the Portuguese, relating this to an intervention that the President of the European Commission made two days ago on the context in which the troika has worked in countries where the programmes took place. I believe that this is a good opportunity to separate two things that should never have been mixed: one is the way the troika solutions worked in terms of adjustment programmes and another is the mechanism for the institutional functioning of the troika as addressed by the President of the European Commission. None of this must be mixed with the dignity of peoples or governments. They're totally different things. The dignity of Portugal has never been involved during the adjustment process. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And not the dignity of the Portuguese either! I had the opportunity to tell the President of the European Commission directly. We would never have allowed the dignity of the Portuguese to be achieved, and it was not achieved, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u29	It must be emphasized very well that the critical balance sheet of the institutional functioning of the troika is not new. No one ever even wanted to disguise him. We had several differences at the institutional level, but also at the substantive level. I recall the statement made by the then Minister of State and Finance, Vítor Gaspar, in the Committee to follow up the programme here in Parliament. On two statements made by the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund on the Portuguese situation, the Minister then referred to them as revealing the institutional hypocrisy that reigned in some of the institutions of the troika. It was said here in Parliament by the Minister of State and Finance, Vítor Gaspar.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u30	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u31	And the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u32	We have had many differences, we have faced many difficulties and we have presented our position, because we have never stopped doing so to the political bodies to which the troika obviously presented the conclusions of its work, i.e. to the President of the Eurogroup, who at the time was the current President of the Commission, to the President of the Commission, to the President of the European Central Bank, to the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund. With all, we had direct relations at the political and institutional level and we always had care, even in view of the difficulties of this institutional relationship at the level of the high officials of the troika, never start a review in Portugal without before and then deal with the political institutions and with their highest representatives to whom the troika accounts. The troika never imposed a solution to Portugal that had not been the result of a negotiation with the Portuguese Government, whether it was with the one I was leading, whether it was with the one who preceded me, who negotiated the Memorandum exactly with that troika and who established the review mechanism as we had to carry it out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u34	We have never left the President of the European Commission, the President of the ECB, the President of the Eurogroup, the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund, to present our views and to be able to change matters that were politically relevant and essential to the success of the programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u35	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u36	Mr President, I conclude by saying that, if we did, it was precisely because we were also able to gain credibility and trust enough to alter several of the conditions that were contractual. But, Mr Luís Montenegro, we have always done so under the conditions that were signed between Portugal, the Portuguese Government of then, and the international institutions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u37	For the second speech of this debate, Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u38	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us then speak of dignity. Mr. Prime Minister said in June that in recent years the National Health Service had achieved better care. You see this best service in the last few months. In September, he said that his mission was to save the National Health Service, but in the meantime the financial garrote that was imposed on the SNS, against the dignity of the country, made it, gradually, if it was approaching the collapse, which will not happen because, meanwhile, it will be taken over. The situation of emergencies in multiple hospitals is frightening. Nobody in your government — neither you nor the Minister of Finance, nor the Minister of Health — any political responsibilities, but many leaders and professionals have set an example of dignity — here is dignity! — not to deal with the lack of working conditions and assistance to patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In recent months, what has been seen is a ban on these charges for reasons which can be explained by the situation and the terrible evolution that exists in hospitals. Mr. Prime Minister, is this all normal? Is it just a summary of isolated cases? The Bartonary of the Order of Physicians said recently that there is no doubt in stating that at present the Portuguese National Health Service does not comply with its constitutional precepts. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u39	They don't like to hear the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u40	What do you say to all this? Don't you think there are many Portuguese people who are being treated in emergency services and hospitals far below the threshold of dignity? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u41	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u42	Madam President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I hope that the plans will not be confused. What has recently prompted my reply to Mr Luís Montenegro had to do with the interpretation of a statement by the President of the European Commission that the dignity of Portuguese and Portugal had been achieved with the troika. I had the opportunity to tell the President of the Commission that the dignity of Portugal and Portuguese has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u44	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, if the dignity, at this national level, can be achieved by the troika, it is certainly not for those who have fulfilled what has been hired, it is for those who have had to call for not being able to solve their responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] If that is the plan in which you want to make the debate, I am very willing to do it. But I want to tell you that the important thing, when a State cannot safeguard its responsibilities, is not to question Portuguese for reasons of pride, as has been said by my predecessor. [[PS protests.]] It is important that when we are unable to solve our responsibilities, we can ask for help. Therefore, I do not consider it unworthy to ask for help when it is needed, and much less I consider it unworthy to fight for the creation of financial conditions that solve the State's responsibilities when it needs to guarantee health, social security, pensions, wages, and out there. Mr. Deputies, there is nothing unworthy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, the honourable Member has brought the issue of health to this debate. The question of health has been discussed here and we never said that we live a situation that has a perfect National Health Service. We know that there are problems—surely so! — we do not ignore them and seek to solve them, Mr President. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u45	Problems created by the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u46	But there is one important thing that needs to be emphasized: Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, and not only, have sought to create a notion of causality between the financial constraints we live and the problems that are being felt in the National Health Service. [[PS protests.]] And they say: "The troika programme that we have" — it was you! — 'We negotiated the ransom we asked for, brought less money, because there was a deficit of almost 11 %, to spend on health and therefore you are responsible' — we are the government — 'because there are problems in the National Health Service in the face of the state having less money, which was the money we spent and we did not have'. It's extraordinary, isn't it, sir? It's extraordinary! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But let me reply to the honourable Member, telling him the following: in these years, despite difficulties and restrictions, we have succeeded in increasing transfers to the National Health Service. We have more beds today; we have more doctors today... [[It's a lie!]] [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u47	This is factual, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have more beds, more doctors, more acts practiced, more guaranteed assistance. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mr Rodrigues: the adjustment which has been made in financial terms — you know that! — was first guaranteed through suppliers of the National Health Service and wage restrictions, which were identical in health, education and throughout the Public Administration. These were the savings made. Mr President, do not mix garlic with bugs and do not want to be held responsible for problems that may still exist in the National Health Service for the rescue programme, because both things are not associated. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u48	Again, I give the floor to Mr. Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u49	The debate has now begun and two absolutely extraordinary things have already happened here: the first was the PSD to say that whoever is wrong in the accounts is the opposition, after this government had eight Budgets in four years,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and the second was Mr. Prime Minister, after replying to the PSD said that it is not worth talking about the past, because they have extraordinary things to show in the evolution between 2011 and 2014, at the first difficulty, to be soon looking for 2011! It was soon to pick up the past! It's so funny! Open... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in a situation which the PS considers disastrous for the country, his Minister of Finance said that Portugal had a great social cohesion. Also there, Mr Prime Minister, I tell you that the dignity of many people who have suffered from the policies of this government has been questioned: the 400 000 people who have emigrated; the people who have gone to unemployment; the people who, although employed, do not have the capacity to create comfort for their children in their homes; the young people who have had to return to their parents' homes; those who, being elderly, have no capacity to have access to health services, whom you spoke in such a short time ago, or to justice services, for example. These people go through situations of difficulty, are treated below the thresholds of dignity and have certainly been hurt in their personal dignity when they heard the Minister of Finance say, alongside the German Minister, that Portugal was an example of social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u50	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u51	Mr. Prime Minister did not mention some statistics on the poverty issues that emerged after our debate. currently, there are 20% of Portuguese at risk of poverty—only in 2012 and 2013 have increased 400 000! Almost half the single-parent families! It can be said that, in the question of poverty, Portugal has receded for about a decade: inequalities have increased sharply, between 20 % more fluent and 20 % less fluent, between 10 % more fluent and 10 % less fluent. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] Here, you corresponded to what you threatened to do, really: impoverished the country,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u52	...has impoverished the Portuguese and impoverished the poorest of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They don't tell me that they're 2013 data, because in 2014 the situation only got worse because people who receive the unemployment allowance were attacked, plus solidarity for the elderly and social income of insertion. Mr Prime Minister, can you repeat the grace you had here a few years ago to say that, in Portugal, with this unworthy programme, "who's messed up wasn't the mussel"? Can you, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u53	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u54	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, the honourable Member « throws the stone» and then, of course, expects no one to answer it. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u55	You ask the questions, you listen to the answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u56	Clearly! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u57	On the National Health Service, you cannot dispute that we have strengthened means, we have more doctors, on a net balance, we have given more service to those who have sought the National Health Service. Therefore, if you want to compare the performance of the National Health Service in 2014 with what it was in 2010 you will notice that in 2014 you answered more and better, and you said: "But, it is worse! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u58	Much worse! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u59	It's extraordinary, isn't it, sir? Oh, my God! If in 2014 we provide more and better services, how are we worse, Mr. Member? Oh, my God! Now, what's wrong? Of course there are problems, sir! But at this point, hospitals are not bankrupt, and when we arrived at the government, hospitals were bankrupt... [[PS protests.]] You make a difference, don't you, Mr. Member? Oh, my God! I think you do! [[PS protests.]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u60	But he said that he considered the statement by the Minister of State and Finance disastrous, referring to the fact that in Portugal we had preserved social cohesion and that this is an attack on the dignity of the Portuguese people. [[And it's true, it's!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u61	Mr President, do not hurt me, but I find this finding totally dislocated. It is true that in Portugal we have done much to preserve social cohesion and, fortunately, despite the great difficulties we have experienced, we have managed to preserve social cohesion. [[PS laughter.]] Now, the honourable Member says the country is poorer. Mr. Deputies, of course you are poorer! But he's already recovering! Open... [[Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's PCP Member's laughter.]] And nominal GDP, Mr. Deputies, has already grown. [[It doesn't look like...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u62	Is it true or not, sir? It's grown! So, if it's already grown, we're already less poor, and in 2015 we're going to be even less poor... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Which means that what concerns Mr, which is the future trajectory of the country's recovery, is heading in the right direction. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr Ferro Rodrigues says that there are still many problems and that there are many Portuguese people who are going through very serious difficulties on their day-to-day basis. That's right, sir. And it is precisely in the name of these Portuguese who are experiencing very serious difficulties that we are working and transforming the country into a country that is not on the verge of asking for new rescues but that can guarantee its responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u63	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u64	Mr President, I would just like to remind you of two words from Mr Prime Minister that show what you think represents the "cost of what it costs". You said: « we will carry out the adjustment programme at any cost». Now, about health, when someone spoke about death in emergencies, you said: "Everything must be done to save lives, but it will not cost anything". That is the difference of your thinking! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there have also been very worrying indicators on investment, indicators that are not from the Socialist Party, are from the entrepreneurs, who say that investment prospects in 2015 are lower than those of 2014. You came here, very happy, with the 0, 9 % growth of GDP, forgetting that these 0, 9 % were already slowing down in the last quarter, in terms of counterparts, and that they were achieved at the cost of domestic demand, since the net external balance made a negative contribution to economic growth. Therefore, there was a failure of the expansionist austerity model, a failure which is mainly measured by investment and the inability to make investment, even in the exporting sector, even foreign investment, even the investment for Portuguese companies that have the greatest dynamism, 'lifting flight' and creating conditions for the future. We had a debate here with the Minister for Economic Affairs, which was very illustrative. We have put forward a number of proposals and he has not responded to any of them. You always say that the PS does not have any proposals, but when it does, you simply refuse to respond to the PS proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, your former Guru, Victor Bento, said at some point in an interesting analysis of surpluses and deficits in the European Union, that « the justice of the ongoing adjustment process could only be restored with an effective transfer of resources, not loans, from surpluses to deficits », i.e. from countries such as Germany, northern Europe, to countries such as Portugal and Greece. What does Mr. Prime Minister say to this? Are you against it? Do you not think that being against this position is an attitude which is also not politically worthy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on that question about my statements on the 'cost cost', I think a little bit of care in the context in which the statements were made would very easily answer to the honourable Member. [[PS protests.]] Of course, in the first case, I was referring to the effort that we would have to make in order to close the programme and return to the page and, in the other case, I was referring, in a context which was very precise, about funding costs for the National Health Service, saying that unfortunately the costs count in the sense that funding is not infinite. You know that it is not infinite and therefore it is not worth wanting to demagogy around this. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] As for the investment outlook for 2015, Mr. Member, let me tell you that as early as August last year the INE had advanced... [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] Sir, listen! Open... I was saying that the INE had advanced that there was an indicator of the entrepreneurs who were expected to fall from the investment by the end of the year and the opposite happened. It has happened, Mr President, systematically, that the prospects that have been put on the development of the Portuguese economy are too pessimistic, but the results have been contradicting them, as I am convinced, will, in the future, deny this prospect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u67	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u68	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you are responsible, as you have now seen, for your speeches, for the role that the Minister for Finance has given herself to play with the German Minister before, being fully instrumentalized against Greece and acting as spokesman for the German Minister,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... aligning with a radical position, « austerity ». Mr. Prime Minister, weren't you ashamed that it had to be Mr. Juncker who said that the troika had sinned against the dignity of the Portuguese? [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u69	It should not have remained because rather than reacting on the right side of the debate and on the European Commission side, it joined the hawks of the Eurogroup, Econfin and the European Council, and made Minister Marques Guedes consider these statements to be unfortunate. Despite everything, the CDS and PSD had a different position here, which did not cease to be curious, in relation to government positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u71	What do you think? Mr. Prime Minister, do you think Portuguese support Mr. Juncker's or Minister Marques Guedes' statements? What do you think, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I also ask you: do you think Portuguese support the positions of the Portuguese Government at European meetings or support the people of Greece? What do you think, Prime Minister? Do you think the Portuguese prefer the Portuguese government's positions? Do you prefer these positions to stick to the most « austere » positions in European terms? Mr Prime Minister, as my grandparents have said, let me be aware that the dignity of Portuguese and Portugal has been called into question in the last three and a half years, and Mr Prime Minister has worked actively to that end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u72	Mr Prime Minister still has little time to answer. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u73	Madam President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, I begin by apologizing to the honourable Member for taking note of his last question on the back of my page, which is now a little bit more filled, and therefore did not respond to his little provocation, concerning my former guru, Victor Bento. I must say that I have a lot of respect for Dr. Vítor Bento, but it has never been, nor is it, my guru. Whatever it is, it seems to me... [[PS protests.]] I don't know! You must understand that we all need a guru, don't you think? I have never felt that need, Mr. [[Greetings and laughter from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] It's true! I know that the fact that I myself do not often invoke other personalities makes the guru in my case empty and, therefore, when a place is empty, there is always a certain attempt to fill in. I appreciate your efforts, but you do not need to make an effort to fill this place because it will remain empty. Let me tell you about the substance of the matter, which I will develop later because, clearly, I do not have time and I think it deserves any development, about transfers and problems related to adjustment processes, if Mr Nuno Magalhães allows me, after the questions I have to ask, then I will return to this subject. Mr President, with regard to the President of the European Commission, you must have been a little distracted because I had already answered on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u74	It's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u75	As for the role that the Minister for Finance has played, let me tell you, Mr, that it is not because we make remarks in a calm and serene tone that we can say things that are not acceptable. And the honourable Member, in spite of the tone he has used, said things that are unacceptable. He said that the Minister of State and Finance had been instrumentalized, who acted as the spokesman for the German Minister of Finance and was therefore willing to play a role that undermines the dignity of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u76	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u77	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u78	Mr President, despite the serene tone with which you have made these statements, I can only repudiate them. The positions adopted by the Minister of State and Finance on behalf of Portugal and the Portuguese Government leave me very comfortable and, more than that, they honor Portugal very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u80	Let me also tell you that we are not only not an instrument of anyone, as, concerning the question you referred, which is Greece, we are exactly in tune—image! — with 18 other euro countries. I repeat : 18 other euro countries. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is appropriate to say, Mr President, that I do not know whether the honourable Member has a guru or whether the place is empty, but if you are and if you want to have one, I believe that Syriza is a serious candidate for Mr Ferro Rodrigues' guru. But in that case, I think you'll have to better combine things here with the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the House that it is being elected to the National Council of Ethics for the Sciences of Life, but that it is still half an hour ago, beyond this debate, for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we can vote. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the CDS-PP would like to speak on the subject of recovery and economic growth. Let's start with recovery and facts. Portugal, between 2005 and 2011, in a Government of the Socialist Party, insisted on a model of economic development based on public investment, whether it is necessary or not. It contracted debt, increased deficit, grew on average in that period, 0, 4 %. Continuing the facts, Prime Minister, in 2009, the PS government, already with a fairly high deficit and uncontrolled public accounts, to win elections, increased public service salaries and, therefore, Portugal in 2011 at the last minute of not having money to pay salaries and pensions, also to the National Health and Social Security Service, traded with a deficit of 10 % and in need, the Memorandum of Understanding. Mr. Prime Minister, I want to tell you the following: this Memorandum of Understanding with our creditors was essential for us to pay for essential functions of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u83	What about the bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u84	But it also forced the country, and this government, to have a government, as we have always said, as a protectorate, a co-government with the creditors, provoked by the previous government, by the overthrow of the Socialist Party, of José Socrates. And that, yes, was a plague, it was a humiliation for an ancient nation, which is respected, as is Portugal, which was obliged to beg for money to pay wages. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Of course, as Mr Prime Minister said, this memorandum brought suffering, demanded difficult reforms, made unemployment reach the unacceptable 17, 8 % — we never denied it. But it is also important to say that Portugal was able to recover, to pay to whom it should and, today, it is possible, by this effort, that taxpayers with children or grandparents in charge have an improved IRS. It was also possible to improve the national minimum wage, than the IMF, for example, says Mr Ferro Rodrigues, disagreed, but at the moment, because we recovered our autonomy, it was possible to be increased, in the context of social consultation. Pensions subject to the ESC up to €4600 and with cuts have ceased to have, it is possible that the public service has recovered part of its salary and that companies today pay less IRC.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u85	This looks like a Disney country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u86	Portugal recovered and grew in 2014, 0, 9 % more than in that period of artificial investment in the economy, Prime Minister. In the last quarter, it grew more in the last quarter than the European Union, which means it has converged, and it has also been said here that exports have had the best year ever, over the best years ever and in marketable goods. The commercial balance, for the third consecutive year, is balanced and has up to a surplus, something that hasn't happened in 70 years. Unemployment is still high, for sure — 13, 9 % is high — but it has decreased by 2, 3 % compared to 2013 and is below the forecast, in particular by the European Commission, so mentioned here, that it previews 14, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u87	And for the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u88	Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, it is important to say that Portugal was able to recover and gain confidence and credibility. Today we pay the lowest interest in our history, in terms of public debt, 2 and 10 years, which demonstrates the trust and credibility of our country. Portugal begins to repay its creditors, the IMF, which will allow Portuguese to save up to EUR 170 million annually in terms of interest. None of this is irrelevant. Mr. Prime Minister, taking advantage of your challenge to give you time to answer Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I end with a very simple question. Comparing Portugal with Greece is not just a factual mistake. Portugal had one rescue, one deadline and left without a single cautious programme; Greece had two and, at best, it might have three. However, this comparison does not only mean disrespecting the efforts of the Portuguese people, it is, above all, a dangerous fact, because it is putting the interests of the parties, the solidarity of the parties, first and foremost and comparing Portugal with Greece, it may be creating a situation of uncertainty, contagion, crisis and difficulties for Portuguese taxpayers as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u90	If we are talking about solidarity, Mr Prime Minister, let us be clear: solidarity with Greece is certain, but our first solidarity is with Portugal, for the Portuguese who were able to overcome the difficulties they suffered with brightness, with capacity. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And because the times are still difficult, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that the challenge we have before us is to continue this path of unemployment and that we need to create jobs. But in order to create jobs, among other things, it is obviously necessary to have a tax regime that is business friendly, but it is also necessary to make use of European funds. Mr. Prime Minister, this week the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party seemed to be a bit of a fight about this matter, as he came to say two things that if they were true would be serious. First of all, he said that this government would be wasting funds from QREN and secondly that this government is late in the so-called 2020 programmes. We already know that in the past, in the governments of the Socialist Party, this has been the case. We remind ourselves of the time of Minister Jaime Silva returning money that should be in the farmers to the European Union, we remember - well the fines that Portugal had to pay because the government did not implement the same funds - about EUR 400 million, which well needed a productive activity like agriculture. But, here, it is important to ask a very specific question now, Prime Minister : is it true that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union, but the country, with the highest rate of implementation in the QREN? Is it not true that this same QREN, contrary to what Dr. António Costa says, does not close in 2013 but, yes, in 2015? And, above all, Mr Prime Minister, is it not true that, as far as 2020, the rate of approval of operational programmes by the European Commission is quite high? It is so high that it even allows the President of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, Dr. António Costa — who says that they are late and are not in progress — to present the contest on behalf of the same Metropolitan Area. It's just that, Prime Minister, it makes all the difference. This has to do with credibility, trust and responsibility! As for the funds and statements by Dr. António Costa, clearly the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and the party itself had an unhappy week. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u91	You have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, then, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u92	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I believe that the comparison between the situation we had in 2014 and what we observed between 2009 and 2010 is really very impressive. There is no doubt that the strategy that was then followed proved disastrous and that the approach we have come to do has at least allowed the growth we are recording to be made more balanced, in that it does not aggravate our future responsibilities, because it does not have as its counterpart, either on the side of public investment or on the side of private investment, the debt contraction that is unsustainable, rather. I would like to tell you that, despite the high level of government debt and the high level of private debt, we are talking about some families, but above all about companies, the fact is that we all need to reduce our expenditure so that our recovery is sustainable, but the funding that has been brought about, in particular through investment for the growth of our economy, does not, as a counterpart, exacerbate the indebtedness of the State and the country. On the contrary, we continue to deduce ourselves, in national terms, to the extent that we are registering surpluses in the current balance and capital, and even though liquid exports do not have the strength that we would like them to have, either as opposed to external demand, or because of the need for investment in Portugal — which is also made at the expense of equipment coming from outside, which are imported — in fact, this investment is sustainable, has concentrated on the most competitive areas of our economy and on export. For this reason, those who thought that exports had nothing left to give were repeatedly deceived. The installed capacity has been well used and we have been increasing the capacity installed in the export area, which means, therefore, that when we do not create perverse incentives within the economy, it tends to adjust to what are the most efficient objectives. at this time, Portugal has an even greater capacity to return to the external markets than it had before and, as has already been well observed, although this growth rate is not unlimited, in fact2014 was the year in which our exports reached the highest level ever. With regard to the question, already discussed here, of the comments of the President of the European Commission on the conditions of living under rescue, I must say, Mr President, that I do not want to go back to this subject because we all, although we are almost a year from now that we have finished the Assistance Programme and, therefore, we are leaving this process, in fact, we have a full consciousness of what it took us to go through this period. Above all, it is difficult for us to go through this as a result of other processes that have already occurred in the past, particularly in 1983 and 1985. We must have another ability to look at the future without always repeating the same mistakes. This is the fundamental aspect that I think it is important to retain from past experience—not repeat the same mistakes. If we have to talk about the past, that is to say we can't go through the same thing again. On the other hand, I believe that this issue gives me the opportunity to respond to Mr Ferro Rodrigues as well, but not without telling Mr Nuno Magalhães that it is true that Portugal today has one of the highest rates of implementation of Community funds. However, speaking of the future, Portugal was among the first countries to have approved its new operational programmes and, before that, to have approved its partnership agreement. Therefore, Portugal is not late in this matter and has not lost time in launching competitions: the first in the administration still in December 2014; the second was launched now; and, until March, the essential of what may be relevant to companies will also be launched. This means that, during the first half of this year, we will have the funds of the new framework to be circulated, since, from the previous table, as you said, and quite well, until December this year, we have the possibility to carry out its financial implementation and show one of the highest financial executions at European level. I said that Mr Nuno Magalhães gave me an opportunity to respond to Mr Ferro Rodrigues a little too. Why? Because we do not ignore that the experience of trying to save countries that needed to be rescued, that is, that they could not find financing on the market, has made Europe evolve significantly. We have not yet reached where it is necessary, but we have evolved significantly. The troika's experience of working has left many lessons for the future and the Portuguese Government has come to draw them and has already communicated them. For example, at the last European Council, I had the opportunity to say that it was important that the European Monetary Fund could be set up to absorb the European Stability Mechanism. This is at least due to a need expressed by the Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice, on the pretext of the request made by the German Constitutional Court on the functioning of the ECB programme of the OMT ( OutrightMonetaryTransactions ). Firstly, there is indeed a conflict of interest in the European Central Bank, which cannot be developing programmes that may involve the purchase of sovereign debt in a given country and at the same time be sitting at the negotiating table with that country establishing the conditions for issuing the debt itself. There's an incompatibility! The ECB must be removed from the troika. Secondly, when we started this process, in European terms, we had no experience of such assistance programmes involving structural capacity and, at the same time, a capacity to finance economies. Today we have. It is very natural that this experience can be crystallized and that we can, in future, dispense the International Monetary Fund with these interventions. Thirdly, it is very important to withdraw from the political fracture of transfers between countries, between governments and between Parliaments what financial assistance may have to be provided to a particular country. And from this point of view, the functioning of a European Monetary Fund brings all the advantages, because it could be directed to bodies of the Eurogroup or Ecofin, for example, which are political entities that bring together finance ministers, therefore representatives of elected governments, but withdraws from the direct, parliamentary and governmental sphere the terms of negotiations that are essential for countries to find, outside political or ideological divisions, the best conditions for their recovery. So, Mr. Nuno Magalhães and Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, we have many lessons to learn from the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u93	We've got, we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u94	...and we've taken these lessons. We're not going to confuse what shouldn't be confused. The problems that still remain in many European countries that still reveal a very high level of indebtedness only tell us that we should not make mistakes again in the past. And those who think the recipe for our problems is always spending more...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u95	What about the debt?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u96	... and throw more money on the subject, because this is how we solve our problem, this approach has been repeatedly failed in Europe and led to a debt that has often been considered excessive. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u97	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u98	I shall conclude, Madam President. The way ahead is to take further the improvement of our institutions and to deepen even further economic and monetary union, but not Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, making the table of our rules or creating the fiction that all the adjustment can be supported easily since someone pays the bill and that this bill is not paid for us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u99	The next speaker from the CFP is Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u100	Mr President, Prime Minister, this government is well the image of that character of a famous Voltaire novel who, stumbling, he and his guardianship, with misery and injustice, said that everything ran to the thousand wonders and in the best possible worlds. Now, who knows the reality and the dramas of millions of Portuguese, knows that this idyllic image does not correspond to the reality of our country, which needs another direction, to another policy. It needs a policy that enhances our productive capacity, our national production, our productive equipment, which supports small and medium-sized enterprises, which recovers their businesses, their resources, which is to be returned to our people in their wages, incomes, pensions and reforms. The country needs health, education and social protection to be part of the right to a more dignified life. The country needs more investment, but I think today you can discuss this need. The question is to combine this need with the possibility of this new policy, which will be most necessary and possible if, for example, we consider the need for the renegotiation of debt, which, contrary to what Mr Prime Minister has said, has increased in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u102	But the government not only refuses this need, as it persists in aligning, supporting and accepting the guidelines of the European Union, in collision with the supreme value of the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u104	Some call it a lack of courage, some call it subservience on the part of this government. Maybe! But the central issue is that this government is trying to deal with its own survival and its policy. This is where the accent is perceived in relation to Greece. This is because there irrespective of the outcome, they are trying to break free from the yoke and yoke of the powerful and leaders of the European Union. This government will never do so, nor will it even try on political grounds. It is in this sense that, thinking that this government has no cure or time, I wonder how far it intends to go in the name of its political survival, although, as I said, without time and without cure, because it is a defeated government, which already belongs to the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u105	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u106	Madam President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I am not sure I have understood exactly your question. The honourable Member made a number of statements and, among them, highlighted his misunderstanding that the Portuguese Government did not accept and initiate a debt renegotiation process, which he found indispensable to allow the significant return on investment to Portugal. Mr President, I will not comment on any other qualifications, but I must say that I believe this to be a contradiction in its terms. The honourable Member wants, and I also want, the return of investment to Portugal. It is already growing, but, of course, we are looking for an even more significant effect on this investment. We need to make the investment even stronger. But if you say that in order to guarantee this investment, the best thing is to renegotiate the debt would be the most perverse result. On the day when Portugal triggers a debt renegotiation process, the investment that could be made using external financing would disappear immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u107	That didn't happen in any country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u108	Right away, sir! Right away! This is also the reason why countries that go through this type of process know that the invoice they pay the next day for the renegotiation of their debt, that is, for the idea that it has to be reduced by losses to creditors, is that they do not count on these countries for investment. That's right, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u109	Ecuador and Argentina deny it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u110	Therefore, I answer this question as I have already answered a number of times in this parliamentary debate. The honourable Member believes that Portugal should renegotiate its debt. I don't think so, sir! I believe that we have a sustainable debt, although we have incurred a very high debt, which creates restrictions, especially on the public area, but nothing prevents the private area from being more dynamic — it can and should — and the state must facilitate it, the more so as to ensure that its responsibilities can be well worn. So we have exactly the opposite perspective. But, Mr President, let me tell you that there is no point in Greece. I do not know where the honourable Member has been able to detect any signs of Greece. Portugal has been a country that has been actively contributing to help Greece, as other European partners have helped Greece, Portugal or Ireland. [[Protests from PS MP João Galamba and Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Perhaps he thought it interesting that the Portuguese Government was against the Greek Government or against Greece. We're not, sir! There is no sign of Greece! On the contrary, I had taken the view that the Greek Government would find a good solution to the problem it has raised and that Greece could solve its problems. You're at least counting on our help!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u111	So why do you align with Germany?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u112	I have already said, and I reaffirm, that Portugal has contributed, not only with bilateral loans, but also doing something — that no other country has, just Greece — that is to return to Greece all the margins registered with the revenues of public debt securities,... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... but also with the results of more-values, i.e. other incomes that may have been generated by the holding of these titles. Portugal was, in terms of the proportion of GDP, the one who held more Greek debt securities, imagine Mr Deputy! Therefore, we are by far the country that most returns to Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u113	Why do you align with Germany, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u114	Therefore, Mr President, this idea that there is an accent has no basis. What we hope is that Greece, despite everything that has already happened, will be able to find a framework that enables it to emerge from the external dependency situation in which it still remains, and that it can find its autonomy, as we have found, as the Irish have found and as we hope that Cyprus will be able to find. Finally, Mr President, let me just tell you that I am not fighting for my political survival.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u115	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u116	As strange as it may seem to you, I am defending my convictions, not those of others, but my convictions, Mr. And as long as I'm defending my convictions and they prove positive to my country, I'm aware I'm doing what I owe. And the day when the country feels that this is not a good way to solve the problem. But it's not Mr. Deputies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u117	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u118	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have noted a clear alignment of your Government with the German Minister of Finance and it is only by chance that when he stated that Portugal is proof that the adjustment programmes work the Government was very pleased. In fact, we have seen the expression of that contentment here. In fact, it's a half-truth. It worked, but the question is who. It worked for the German megabanks, for the financial capital—it obviously worked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u120	What about the country? What about the workers and the Portuguese people? What were the consequences? This is where your speech deals with reality. 15 days ago, in the 15-year debate, and in a general framework in which we systematically denounce the increase in unemployment and poverty, Mr. Prime Minister, with that style that characterizes him, said « no sir, there is the PCP exaggerating! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” See there the randomness that, in the afternoon, after the debate, the INE came to say that poverty in Portugal hits frightening numbers. How does this image of success explain that we are seeing signs everywhere that we are leaving the hole, when, in fact, poverty in Portugal, which is paradigmatic, has reached millions of Portuguese, particularly children? How can you say that everything is okay, when you see, in relation to the National Health Service, this dramatic situation that leads to the despair of thousands and thousands of Portuguese? What success is this that pushed hundreds of thousands of Portuguese emigration, many of them formed here, at the costs that the country and families had to pay, and what were the zero cost to abroad? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u121	What success is this, Prime Minister, when we find that this debt we referred to has increased to unsustainable levels? Mr Prime Minister, we are in fact in favour of renegotiating. Mr Prime Minister always puts himself in the position of defender of creditors. We believe that debtors also have rights and that renegotiating debt is a fundamental element in avoiding what you often proclaim. It's just that one day we won't be able to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u123	Of course, he won't be here, anyone who comes behind closes the door... but we're discussing a fundamental, structural problem for Portuguese society. Mr. Prime Minister, stop this conversation that everything goes well or that everything is now on the right track. The reality lies - and for that reason it can keep for a long time - no longer has much - that speech, but today, out there, those who are on strike, school workers, those who feel in the skin this anathema of poverty, those who are unemployed, those who are revolted, given the degradation of their lives, these are those who will function as judges and accusers of this policy and of this government, who do not solve national problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u124	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u125	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is not strange that there can be alignment with reality. If we say that our Assistance Programme has concluded, that we have closed it without needing to negotiate another, not even a cautious programme, you will certainly not want to say that the Programme has failed! No, the Program was closed, produced the results that were expected,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u126	Of poverty and unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u127	... Portugal has returned to its autonomous condition of financing itself on the market, therefore it does not need to continue to apply for external aid. That is a given objective, Mr. The honourable Member — I hope! — doesn't consider this a failure, does it? What would happen if we had to ask for another loan, if we had to ask for a cautious program? What would that be, Mr. Deputies, in your view? Of course, we note that the Programme has ended and that it has successfully completed, we did not need to have asked for another.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u128	For whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u129	To the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u130	This has happened in Portugal and Ireland. This has not yet happened in Greece, which is still a unique case. Mr President, unlike the other countries, Greece renegotiated its debt, even had a hair cut of its debt which, in the case of private individuals, reached 50 % to 60 % of the value of the debt held. Greece has renegotiated its programme and has a second programme. And in this second programme, there are conditions under which no other country which has programmes has obtained : it has interest-paying moratorium, for 10 years it does not pay interest, only in 2022 will it pay interest on European funding—of course, the IMF does not open exceptions for anyone; and it can have all States return any result that may have been obtained with public debt securities, even when they were bought on the market by the European Central Bank, in the secondary market, when no one wanted to buy these securities, they wanted to sell them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u131	That's not renegotiating!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u132	So, honourable Member, we had in Greece the renegotiation of debt and hair cut, two aid packages. And it is quite clear today that Greece will not succeed, given the worsening situation that has occurred since last quarter of last year and that it is getting worse every day, not having a third aid package.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u133	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u134	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, Mr President, the situation is exactly the opposite of what you say. Those who have followed something similar, in terms of strategy and approach, with what you stand for, are still bad and those who have not followed what you stand for have managed to see these rescues free. Something, in your view, needs to be reviewed, sir. I conclude by saying only that as Prime Minister I defend the interest of the Portuguese rather than the creditors. But on the day that Portugal does not honour its commitments, then the interests of the Portuguese will be at stake. You may be sure of that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u135	And the responsibility will be yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u136	With regard to INE, Member of the Commission, it is quite right that the INE data on poverty have been disseminated after our last debate. In any case, I have had occasion to refer to these data publicly, and I want to reaffirm here, telegraphically, that we do not ignore the difficulties we have experienced. There is no doubt that we went through very serious poverty risks and 2013 was perhaps the year in which these risks became more obvious. But these data, Mr President, report to a reality that is already outdated. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u137	How can you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u138	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u139	But it is not true, Mr. Member, that I say it's all right, it's not true that I say we live in the best of the worlds. You may want to repeat that many times, but I have never said so, I will never say so, because we still have many difficulties and we still have much to do to win them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u140	The next intervention is the Left Block. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u141	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, you will forgive me, but I have heard speeches and figures in such a fictional way in this debate, which suddenly came to my head with a fictional series of television, see there! A friend of mine called my attention to a European series, in which a political leader, speaking of the European crisis, gives an example of what should not be done and what is being done. It's a popular story, the story of two men being chased by a leopard. One starts shoes and the other asks him: "But do you think you can run more than the leopard? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And the man who wears his shoes answers him: “No, it’s enough for me to run more than you.” This is the sad story of what our country's behavior has been at the moment that Europe is living. And well you can say the CDS that Portugal and Greece are not equal, but there is one thing that we are sure about: what separates us are the interests of the leopard. It is certainly not the leopard who will defend our interests, Prime Minister, and therefore it is good to see which allies he chooses in Europe. within two hours, the meeting of the Eurogroup begins. We have had important meetings in Europe and we have not had the opportunity to debate what the position of the Portuguese Government would be at these meetings. Mr Prime Minister has already said today that Portugal is, together with 18 Eurogroup governments, against the proposal made by the Greek Government, which is a proposal to, while fulfilling the commitments, have an alternative to austerity. It's not like that. We know that some governments have already said that they consider the Greek Government's proposal acceptable. Even the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, also stated the need to meet the Greek Government's proposal—in those statements we well know, between cynic and the hypocrite, about dignity and troika, but finally. It is good for the Portuguese Government to clarify what it will be defending in two hours: if, within two hours, it will accept the possibility of a country having an alternative to austerity, or if, within two hours, it will be on the side of anyone who wants to impose austerity as a single policy throughout Europe. I remind you, Prime Minister, of the words of the former President of the Republic of Jorge Sampaio yesterday : « It is good that the most fragile countries are not divided ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u143	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am not going to get involved in your fictional adventure, but I am going to answer clearly the question that Mrs Catarina Martins has asked. Portugal will maintain the position it has defended and that at the two meetings of the already well-known Eurogroup, which is the position shared by all European countries represented in the Eurogroup. We believe it is important to meet the claims of the Greek Government that bring about the need to build a new framework for external aid to Greece. This must be done and discussed in the current programme. This programme will end on 28 this month if the Greek Government does not ask for its extension.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u144	You've asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u145	Now, what is public knowledge is that the Greek Government has asked for the extension of loans, i.e. the ability to use money, but it does not want to correspond to the framework of obligations on which this money should be allocated to Greece, and that is not acceptable. And it has been considered unacceptable so far by all the European governments represented in the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u146	All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u147	Therefore, honourable Member, there is no difference here, it is a matter of rules. In other words, we should expect those who want to renegotiate a programme to do so within the framework of their responsibilities. But that's normal. I believe, moreover, that the Prime Minister and the Greek Minister of Finance had already concluded that there were about 70% of the Memorandum with which they agreed and 30% they would like to renegotiate. We still do not know — at this time I, as Prime Minister, am not aware — what the Greek Government wants to renegotiate, but it is only natural that this should be done, because this should be discussed in the first instance at the level of finance ministers, but it has not yet been. Therefore, what seems to be the result of what has come to the public is that the Greek Government is interested in giving it the conditions for not losing the financing money, but does not want to link itself to any framework of responsibilities, « come the money and we, after four or six months, will discuss the conditions under which we may or will not solve those responsibilities». That, Mrs Deputy, has not been considered acceptable by all countries within the Eurogroup. And I don't think it's acceptable. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u148	Mrs. Catarina Martins, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u149	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister may have been distracted, but the Greek Government has written a letter saying that it has made commitments to creditors, but wants an alternative policy to austerity, fulfilling its electoral commitments. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] So we are not here with the problem of commitments with creditors, we are with the political problem of whether in Europe a government can say that it wants an alternative to austerity. And several governments in Europe have already said that it is good to look seriously at the proposal of the Greek Government, which is a serious proposal. What Mr. Prime Minister is telling us is that the Eurogroup is like this: they enter 18 to decide, they have different positions but at the end they send Germany! And here's the indignity, Prime Minister. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Indignity is that we will know that we have a government that is more German than the German Government. Indignity is that we have had the Minister of Finance at the German Finance Minister's gateway to show that good government is subject government. Indignity is to know that, after austerity has failed at all, in fact what Mr. Prime Minister does not want anyone to prove in Europe that there is an alternative to austerity and that economic growth can exist. If not, how did Mr. Prime Minister get his promise that he was impoverishing himself from the crisis? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u150	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to tell you about some specific figures, because we have found that in the debates the government has a problem with numbers on a regular basis; it reaches the 15-year debates and the numbers never beat right. Recently, we were talking about health and Mr. Prime Minister tends to consider that everything is all right, even after 28 out of 33 directors of the Amadora-Sintra hospital had resigned, even after the resignation of the Garcia da Orta Hospital, the Hospital of Santa Maria, at the hospital in Santa Maria da Feira, etc. Now, Prime Minister, INE data told us that in 2012 there were 25,000 beds in hospitals and that now at the end of 2014 there were 20,000 beds in hospitals. Maybe that's why hospital emergencies are caught by patients who can't get admission and have to stay in the corridors. Mr. Prime Minister, do you have any proposals for emergency collapse or will you continue to realize that, in your health, is everything okay? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u151	You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u152	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, once again on the question of Greece, the honourable Member believes that, when 18 countries agree, that is an indignity because it is a submission to Germany. [[And it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u153	He therefore believes that he can thus insult all European governments, which are therefore subservient and are in charge of Germany. Mrs. Member, I'm sorry, but that's not the case. Your great development in defending Syriza, I understand, but, Mrs. Member, I was not elected to defend the interests of Syriza, I was elected to defend the interests of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I know that there is in your party who thinks anyone who defends the interests of the Portuguese is a foreign government, but that is not my conviction. Secondly, the honourable Member has suggested that these 18'sicks' want to impose conditions on Greece because they want to prove that there is no alternative for growth without austerity. So this would be a proof of survival: if it is possible to do all this without austerity, then we should not have done anything we did. [[BE's protests.]] Therefore, it would be important to maintain a kind of unviable program in relation to that country to self-justify what happened to us. Isn't that true, Mrs. Member? This is your starting point. But you're wrong, Mrs. Deputy! And it is wrong for the following: on the day that Greece demonstrates that, without the money of others, it can develop policies that make Greece grow, I will be the first to be right to the honourable Member. But to say that there are no austerity policies because they pay the others, not that, Mrs. Member! That's how I do it too! That's how we all do! That's how it's been in the past! With the money of others, it's all very simple! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, on health, on the matter of beds, this has already been well explained here in Parliament by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u154	It wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u155	In fact, beds are at the disposal of hospitals and are being operated whenever necessary. Today we have more beds than we had in 2010. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u156	Not in hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u157	You have the floor, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u158	Mr President, I would ask that documents on hospital beds be distributed to the Government later, because the Prime Minister is clearly ill-informed about numbers. Mr. Prime Minister, in these days of the confrontation that is taking place in Europe, we may have a mistake: it is that Mr. Prime Minister, whenever he speaks, speaks to attack Greece, we have not yet heard him speak to defend the country. When I tell you about a different position in Europe, it is not to defend Greece, it is to defend our country, it is to say that austerity cannot be the continuation of impoverishment in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] You know, Prime Minister, indignity is to have a government that defends the interests of the German Government, indignity is 770,000 people in unemployment without any support, indignity is 400 000 people forced to emigrate, indignity is half a million jobs destroyed in our country, indignity is that the economy continues to sink and Mr. Prime Minister comes to speak as if it were all right. I know you still have 9 seconds to answer me and I will therefore leave you two very simple questions. First, because we have found that the wrong numbers in the debates are always a problem with the clarity of the political options and our speech, I would like you to explain to me how confident you are in the future. It's just that Mr. Prime Minister told us about two data. One of them was the investment, and INE data say entrepreneurs think the investment will be negative. Now, Mr. Prime Minister does not want public investment, but private investment does not come either. Then there is another hope, which you have talked about here, which has to do with the contribution of external demand to GDP. But, Prime Minister, that's bad news, isn't it? It's just that this contribution is negative! Have you noticed the evolution? It is that exports did not increase as much as imports; imports increased more. The model of economy that promised us austerity actually only brought poverty and, when we look at the contribution of external demand, we see that it is negative in GDP. Mr Prime Minister, that is another number that is wrong in today's debate, and it was good that we had debates with right numbers. Then there is another issue that I would like to address very briefly, because I think it would be good to hear a word from the Prime Minister about it. He certainly heard with as much concern as I did the events at the Alfragide squad and the fact that citizens had been assaulted and insulted at a police station in Portugal. Of course, I agree that in a rule of law every citizen must be able to move to the teams with full confidence. There is a detail that, I believe, must deserve your firm condemnation, and I hope you will do it here today — I am giving you this opportunity. An investigation is under way—and still well, it has to be ongoing—but the truth is that the spokesperson of the Metropolitan Command of Lisbon has tried to justify an action of violence and police racism, speaking of an assault on a police station. This assault on the station would have been perpetrated by leaders of an association of residents, which the Assembly of the Republic has already awarded for its defence of human rights and who went to the police station, unarmed, to know what was going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u159	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u160	I shall conclude, Madam President. Now, the fact that the Lisbon Metropolitan Command is trying to make an apology without any proof is a very serious problem and that it creates an instability that we cannot afford in our rule of law. So I hope that we can also have a firm word on this matter today, here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u161	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u162	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I understand that the honourable Member has become so involved in her fictional history that she then composes elements of her speech with things that do not exist and therefore increases fiction. In fact, Mrs Deputy, there is no Portuguese Government — it has never existed in these years — no provision to attack Greece. On the contrary, we have always sought, at European level, to give the conditions that can be laid down so that Greece can solve its problems and remain within the euro area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u163	Always next to Greece! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u164	That's what all of us have been doing. And the aid which was given to Greece repeatedly had this purpose, Mrs. The honourable Member may think that she has been better or worse off, or that the Programme has been more or less successful — clearly has not succeeded, because there are already two and a debt restructuring and they have not yet managed to solve the problem. So, obviously, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u165	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u166	We have also said that this is a very unique problem within Europe. And that is why, even countries that have had very difficult circumstances, such as the Baltic countries, which have made adjustment processes without aid and with great difficulty, or other countries, such as the cases of Slovakia or Slovenia, which have a per capita income much lower than Greece, and which, however, bear transfers to Greece, have made a very great effort of recognition, solidarity and importance to provide Greece with the aid that was possible and necessary. So don't distort things, Mrs. Deputies. We are open to continuing this path. If we did it with a socialist government, with a technocratic government, with a coalition government between a more conservative party and a socialist party, why would we not now do it with a Syriza government? It's the Greek government! O Mrs. Member, it is the Government of Greece! We respect, as it cannot be, the governments of other countries. This does not mean that the governments of other countries can unilaterally impose their decisions on us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u167	They're completely different things, Your Honor! What the honourable Member wants is that each of us imposes on others their solutions only because we have been elected. Mrs. Member, that can't happen! And that's not an attack on Greece. As far as austerity is concerned, Mrs Deputies, I shall have the greatest taste and you can believe that I am campaigning by Mrs Deputies on the day when someone demonstrates that it is possible for a country that has debts not to honour them, imposing a multilateral financial aid obligation without negotiating counterparts. I don't know! I don't know, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u168	Germany!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u169	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u170	Mrs Deputy has a fixation with Germany. Have you noticed? Why are you always talking about Germany? We are in Portugal, Mrs. Deputy! We're not in Germany. You haven't noticed that yet? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Leave the German daddy there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u171	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u172	Mrs Deputy, private investment has been recovering from pessimism, sometimes even from entrepreneurs. It was based on this consultation with the entrepreneurs that was published in August last year a less favourable outlook for investment, given what reality has shown to be unfounded. That's right! The role of expectations also works in this way, Mrs. When an indicator is revealed, it doesn't mean it's going to happen, it gives us directions. The indications given to us today are that entrepreneurs find today, for various reasons which I am not going to talk about, that there may be less investment force in this first half of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u173	I asked you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u174	I shall conclude, Madam President. I don't think there's any reason for this pessimism. And the recent past has shown that there is no reason for this pessimism. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we do not live in a pink world, nor in an ideal world, but we value very much every small significant result that we will achieve, provided it is positive and can open a more optimistic perspective for the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u175	The last intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u176	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, perhaps you would like to start by asking the return of a question that Mr Prime Minister has just asked, which is the following: why is this obsession always defending Germany? [[PSD protests.]] Why this subservience obsession with Germany, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! You just don't understand, you don't understand. We are in Portugal, with a very concrete reality, for which the Government should look. And you know, Prime Minister, Germany is the demonstration that there are two pesos and two measures in this Europe. And Germany contributes to impoverishing peoples like Portugal. And yes, the troika attacked the dignity of Portugal, as the President of the European Commission acknowledged, and the Prime Minister wants to ignore the issue. Mr. Prime Minister, I'll give you an example. One of the most confusing things we have seen in recent times was the Minister of Finance saying - there is, in this provision of vassalage to Germany - that this in Portugal had done very well, that everything was very good and - see, Prime Minister! — with a great social cohesion. I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister whether he is able to say that, with the same words, now here in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u178	This was one of the governments that had the greatest challenge. Today, school employees are on strike due to the issues of precariousness, the lack of working conditions, because they are unable to provide assistance to children and young people in our schools. Every day there are reports of resignations from the clinical directors of our hospitals. Mr. Prime Minister, are you able to speak in social cohesion? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u179	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u180	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I do not have such an obsession and, by the answer I gave recently, I believe that the issue is largely answered. As far as social cohesion is concerned, the honourable Member must have been distracted because this matter was debated here and I have made an abundant statement on it. I understand that it is always difficult to speak at the end, Mrs. Member. You must always ask questions, even those that have already been asked and answered. But I can't help but tell the honourable Member what I said just now. In fact, we had very difficult and demanding conditions, but we did not stop investing enough to create conditions for the preservation of social cohesion. It was very important that in Portugal these conditions could have been created, and, despite the difficulties we have experienced and because many still pass, it was very important that this answer could have been offered because, without it, social cohesion would have been in danger. I take advantage of the question by Mrs Deputies, because I didn't say it recently,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u181	After all, there's something else to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u182	... although I've already said it on other occasions, to add something that I haven't said yet. It is that, to a large extent, this social cohesion was guaranteed by a great complicity that was patented by the universe of institutions of social solidarity in Portugal. It was a work of great complicity between them, of great coordination, of great articulation, and this was important so that the Social Emergency Programme which the Government created and in which it spent about EUR 1000 million over three years could ensure the effectiveness due to the intervention of these institutions. Madam Member, the record remains that social cohesion in Portugal is a very important thing and, fortunately, despite the difficulties, we have been able to guarantee it. But we do not confuse social cohesion with social challenge or political challenge, Mrs. We don't make these confusions. Only the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens confuse the two things and, moreover, perhaps not by mistake or by chance, in the same debate, make the same allusion, saying «see there is a strike today and, by chance, social cohesion is wrong». Mrs. Member, what does the strike have to do with social cohesion? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u183	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u184	Well, Prime Minister, I had something new to say, even at the end of the debate! Mr. Prime Minister, I am very grateful for the sympathy you wanted to show, but I was very grateful that Mr. Prime Minister would turn this sympathy into a skill in the face of the country's problems. That was extraordinarily good for the country! In fact, as regards social cohesion, Mr. Prime Minister explained and we understand what it means: it has nothing to do with social disputes, it has to do with the brutal investment the government has made in social canteens in the country; we have social cohesion assumed and guaranteed in the country. I think this is absolutely unbelievable in a government that sees the world totally opposite. Mr. Prime Minister, at the end of these years of term of office, can see the poor in this country to enrich and the richest in this country to impoverish, in a world totally contrary, when reality categorically discredits it. Mr. Prime Minister can see the hospital beds increasing! Look, it's an unbelievable thing! Mr. Prime Minister, there is a written response from the Ministry of Health to members of the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that hospital beds, particularly acute beds, have decreased.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u185	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u186	We even have the specific number: minus 944. Mr Prime Minister, this is not the first debate where we talk about health issues. These issues are, in fact, taking such a dimension and have been demonstrated so seriously that in all the debates we need to resume the matter. Mr Prime Minister sends the statement to the air: « the number of beds is increasing». And we don't get out of this. As we say, it's the Ministry of Health itself that says they're decreasing. Perhaps it is not democratic to be an official to say so. It is usually the head of the ministry that answers the written questions. Maybe they're telling the truth. If I were the minister, I wouldn't say! Minister, it's less than 944 acute beds. What does that mean? Mr. Prime Minister, please bring numbers. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that in the last debate, I have asked Mr Prime Minister to bring the inspection report to your dam. We cannot forget things from a debate to another debate. Mr. Prime Minister at the time made an expression of admiration, because he was probably not informed about the matter and I explained to him what was going on. There is a report requested by the Ministry of the Environment which should have been released in August, but it has not been, and have been all these months. I specifically asked the Prime Minister at the last debate to bring the report of this inspection, because this report will make it possible for us to state, if any, that EDP is violating contractual clauses and the declaration of environmental impact on your dam, which is an extraordinarily serious thing. I ask you: did you bring the report with you? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u187	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u188	Madam President, Madam Member, first of all, I do not confuse social cohesion with social canteens. Nor did the Government spend EUR 1000 million on social canteens in three years, Mrs Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u189	It's charity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u190	Not either, Mrs. Deputy. It's not charity either! It is very important to know that we have social policy, it has a more supportive character, when such assistance has to be provided, it has a more structural nature, whenever it is required. We may not have, once again, all the resources that we would like to have to invest in this area, but — and this is important, Mrs Deputies — since we have passed so much financial restriction, we have managed to increase the volume of funding available for the social area is important. The honourable Member may say — this is an abuse on my part, but it is a rhetorical simplification that is useful, because it is usually associated with this debate: "But it certainly includes unemployment benefits, sickness benefits, all that the State can not fail to guarantee, because we have a crisis". Of course, Mrs Deputy, but it is very important that, at the time of crisis, the State, not having unlimited funding capacity, can ensure that these automatic stabilizers and these benefits can be ensured. That's very important. Why? Because if they weren't, Mrs. Member, there, yes, social cohesion, it could be broken. And it wasn't, Mrs. Member. Therefore, we do not live in the best of the worlds, we have many difficulties. It is enough to say that we still have a very high unemployment rate, sure that we have social problems. But social cohesion, the social fabric has not been broken. It is possible to verify — image! — through INE data, which, in relation to a share of those who are most vulnerable, the elderly, the risk of poverty, even in the peak of the crisis, has decreased. Even in the peak of the crisis, according to the INE, as for the elderly, the risk of poverty has decreased. That must say something about our social policy! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, on the matter of beds, Parliament has already had the opportunity to discuss this matter in detail with the Minister of Health, who was very explicit on this subject, and I am therefore not going to re-edit this debate here. What the honourable Member says is something else. A reorganisation of the beds was made and some acute beds were removed that were not necessary, according to the reorganization that was being made, and beds used for palliative care and those intended for continuing care were increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u191	Look at the emergency situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u192	So, Mrs. Member, today we have more beds than we had. In hospital services, there is the ability to rest beds, because they are there, they are not being used, Mr Member — it is a different thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u193	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u194	I shall try to conclude, Madam President. I am very sorry, perhaps, to be abusing Parliament's patience — I will of course only do so if Parliament understands it — but I think it is important to undo this myth that the numbers are wrong, because they are not, Madam President. In hospitals, we have an effective capacity that is greater, because it is installed, than that which is used. Therefore, when it is necessary for these beds to be made available, they are not. The Minister of Health and the Secretary of Health have already explained this in great detail in Parliament. I don't know why you insist on saying otherwise. Finally, with regard to the report on your dam, I am very sorry to the honourable Member, but I did not, in fact, have any memory of your question. However, the Minister has still been asked that this report — if there is any, I do not know it — be referred to the honourable Member. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u195	I thank the Prime Minister and all the speakers who spoke in the debate. This fortnight debate is concluded. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government present. There are still three points on our agenda before we proceed to the vote, two of which have no time allocated. The third point was discussed in draft resolution No 1232 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Honors of National Pantheon to the Eusébio da Silva Ferreira ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). The parties agreed to allocate 2 minutes to each parliamentary group to intervene on this draft resolution. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Parliament today makes an unusual decision, which is unusual, and all of us, as representatives of the nation and of the Portuguese, assume a huge responsibility, which is to give national Pantheon honor to a Portuguese. Eusebius of Silva Ferreira was always a symbol of union. in a period when football is often a symbol of dispute, of some fanaticism, Eusebius was the symbol of the fair play. During his life, during his sports career, after his sports career and after his death, Eusebius achieved what many thought impossible: sitting at the same table clubs, followers, professionals, in a sign of respect, which should inspire us and honor everyone. The greatest memory of Eusebius is not his goals, they are not his victories, they are not the winning championships and the prizes obtained out there and in here. Eusebius's greatest prize, his greatest example for our collective memory is his fair play, and that is what we must honor today. Eusebius was a fundamental element of the identity of a people, not only of the Portuguese people, of the Mozambican people, but also an example for the CPLP, for the Lusophony, for the Lusophone culture and for the Portuguese identity. Eusebius was, for many, the greatest link between our communities. His example of generosity, his example of a spirit of sacrifice, his example of fair play, his example of effort and his example of rigour are an example for all of us. Eusebius da Silva Ferreira managed, at a time when communication networks were not the current ones, to take the name of Portugal to the four corners of the world. Portugal was often known because of Eusebius, which was always such an example for Portuguese communities abroad, for Portuguese living in Portugal, but above all for everyone and for those who came to know Portugal through Eusebius and other symbols. Eusebius was therefore a national symbol that has always been able to unite our memory and history. We cannot fail to remember, on the day of his death, the tributes that were made to him by other clubs, other countries, of other cultures that, united, knew how to honor and respect his memory. It was on that day that we thought that Eusebius was an example that should remain for our history. In life and death, we will never be able to repay what Eusebius did by the name of Portugal, by Portuguese culture and by the image of the Portuguese in the four corners of the world. The responsibility to give him the honours of Pantheão Nacional is only one way of thanking all his efforts, all his dedication to Portugal and the Lusophonia, but above all, it is the way we found to perpetuate his example, his fair play, his generosity and, above all, his position in sports, which must serve to inspire several other generations. The National Pantheon is where they must be the most representative of our history and our culture—Eusebius is certainly one of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u197	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u198	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that Eusebius will perhaps be the first Portuguese not born in national territory to deserve this honour. This is also a sign of respect and appreciation for the Lusophony, the Portuguese and the brothers we know about this world outside. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u199	For the PS, you have the floor for an intervention Mr Ramos Preto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party supports this parliamentary initiative, with which we intend to grant National Pantheon honours to the remains of Eusebius da Silva Ferreira, honoring the national symbol, the man of solidarity, the brilliant athlete and the example of a single sportsman. We will always appreciate the great football player, the « great tangles», as Alexandre O' Neil called it, the contemporary footballer, the symbol of world football. We will always appreciate this man who had something within himself that was not only the gift of a great footballer, it was a very special human gift, that children could recognize when they cried their death. As Manuel Alegre once said, who sang it for eternity: « There was in it the maximum tension/As a classic ordered his own strength, / he knew the containment and it was explosion, / (...) / It was not only instinct, it was science, / magic and theory only practice. / There was in it the art and the intelligence/ of pure game and its mathematics. / I was looking for the goblet more than the goblet: only word. - Abstraction. Point in space. Theorem. / Fire from the superfluus ended/ and then it was not goal: it was poem. Do not keep on seeking. ” Eusebius was the greatest player of all time, maintaining the genius of the true great. It is one of those men who has gone "from the law of death releasing" by work that we all recognize as valuable and that the poets have sung because they have surrendered themselves to their genius; they have surrendered to their humility; they have surrendered to their sense of solidarity; they have rendered themselves to a simplicity of the princes of their art. when approving this resolution, we also recall its status as a true milestone in the dissemination and globalization of the image and importance of Portugal in the world, because Eusébio da Silva Ferreira became a universal reference, a reference of the Lusophonia and a reference of Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u201	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that, since we have been associated, from the beginning, with this initiative that we are going to vote on and until we have taken a first initiative, so to speak, a great deal of honour and a great deal of pride that has been possible, in the dialogue which was immediately established with all parliamentary groups, that this initiative was unanimous, and that, of all, it is not, of course, apocryphal, because it has authors, its authorship is assumed. But it is good and desirable that this initiative should be common to all parliamentary groups and that everyone should look back to this Parliament decision, Madam President. Secondly, I would like to say that, from our point of view, the honours of Pantheon exist to honor those who, in one of the most beautiful phrases in the Portuguese language of Luís de Camões, « leave the law of death freeing themselves». That is, those who, in other cultures, in France, for example, are known as immortals, those who attain the status of immortality, those who will be remembered forever, whatever the century, whatever the generation. And, from our point of view, this is undoubtedly the case of Eusebius da Silva Ferreira. Eusebius da Silva Ferreira is also the myth. It is the myth, right at the start, of the barefoot kid in the poor neighborhood of Mafallala, the kid of barefoot coming, as Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, of the Sporting de Lourenço Marques, who then arrives at his club of all life, to his club of always, to Benfica and reaches the top of the world in his activity and is recognized not only as the best in the world but also, for decades, the best known Portuguese all over the world. That is, Eusebius da Silva Ferreira is this myth of success and this myth of achievement. It is not worth talking here about his extraordinary career as a footballer at the service of Benfica and National Selection. He won almost everything: he was a European champion, he was 11 times a national champion, he won numerous Cups of Portugal, he was recognized as the best in the world, he won several times the award of the best scorer. In fact, it is a unique career of someone who has achieved in his activity the status of "number one" of the world, recognized, for example, by the recently disappeared one and also recognized as one of the best of all, Alfredo Di Stéfano. It was Di Stéfano who said that for him, Eusebius had not been the best of that time, had been the best of ever. Mr President, we have all witnessed — and we have also been there — the extraordinary moment of national constancy that was his death. On the other hand, spontaneous emotion, with people coming not only from all regions of the country but also from abroad to pay you a final tribute and people, as it has been remembered, from all clubs. This national feeling was also a relevant moment. I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: I believe that the Assembly of the Republic, when making this decision, should be aware that to some extent it is also making history. And it is making history by the following: The Pantheon was destined to great figures of politics — there are some of our first Presidents of the Republic, some of our greatest writers,... I remember the recent case of Sophia by Mello Breyner Andresen, one of our greatest poets. But the Pantheon was always connected, even when we decided here to assign honours to Amália Rodrigues, to figures that were either of politics or of the world of culture, so to speak. Because Amália Rodrigues will also be of popular culture, but she herself sang Camões, sang Persona, sang our greatest poets. Therefore, the Pantheon has always been linked to cultural figures. when making this decision, for the first time, we decided to give honors of Pantheon to a sportsman, to a man who distinguished himself in sports, to a man who is, above all, beyond his personality, beyond his generosity, beyond his fair play, a popular hero.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u203	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u204	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that to some extent, by granting these honours to a popular hero, the House is also making history, but a story that, I think, honours this Parliament, prides the Portuguese and honour Portugal. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PSD and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u205	PCP intervention is followed. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the decision that we will soon take, we believe that the Assembly of the Republic will meet the popular recognition and identification of the Portuguese people with the figure of Eusebius not only in its dimension of brilliant sportsman, genius footballer, as it is by all recognized not only nationally but internationally, but also by the identification of the Portuguese people with the figure of Eusebius, in its generous personality, solidarity that, despite recognition, nationally and internationally, has always rejected the self-glorification that would certainly have been an easy temptation for others. At the time of the debate on the vote of regret which was adopted here and which, moreover, is contained in the text of the Resolution itself, we said that Eusebius is in fact a major symbol of national sport and that because of this he has gained not only national recognition as international and that he has, moreover, translated into the tributes that were given to him both inside and outside the country. But Eusebius is also a figure that remains in the collective memory of the Portuguese because of generosity—and these are striking aspects of his human profile—for the solidarity with which, throughout his life, he related to those around him who were and even giving shows of distance from controversy and wants that not only in the world of football, but also there, were developed and of which he maintained a distance, which is unique and striking of his personality. Thus, with this decision that the Assembly of the Republic now assumes, we believe that recognition is given, one translates this popular sense of identification with the figure of Eusebius in its multiple dimensions, but also makes justice to this popular feeling. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u207	The next intervention is the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about Eusebius is to talk about man, it is to talk about the player, but it is also to talk about the symbol and, above all, about emotions. So from now on, I confess that I am unable to achieve these emotions that he has been able to convey to so many and so many and so many generations. But speaking of Eusebius is also to discuss here the moment when the Assembly echoes the national sentiment. Transforming the Eusebius into the national hero is not a decision we can make here, it is already taken; the people so wanted, people feel it! They felt it at times when many of the hopes in the country were materialized in the Eusebius, in the example of the man who managed to fake his destiny, a destiny that was filled with poverty and difficulties, but that he showed that it was possible to kick and pretend, and thus show that he could do much more than just be condemned by the grails of a dictatorship that had not much to present. But it is also about the player who was feared by the opponents, but respected inside and outside the four lines. The Poet said he was "lowliness" and "explosion". It was exactly that, but it was, above all, the perception that we saw in man much more than he himself and the ability to make, with his feet, the creation of feelings in all and in all of us. Therefore, if the Poet has already acknowledged that his goals were not finished but, yes, poems, who are we to say that he should not be but in the highest level of Portugal, the Pantheon, and, with this recognition, materialize the feeling that he was important in the past, but, above all, is, and will continue to be, important in the future? Oh, my God! Therefore, we associate ourselves with this draft resolution and we believe that today the Assembly of the Republic is taking a good step in the recognition that the country has already made to Eusebius. [[Congratulations on BE and on the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u209	The next intervention is from the Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Eusébio da Silva Ferreira was a leading figure of the 20th century, a world-class footballer who took the name of Benfica and, above all, the name of Portugal to all corners of the world. An absolutely exceptional footballer, but also a great citizen, simple, humble and also involved in various campaigns of solidarity. Eusebius was therefore an example as a footballer, but also as a citizen. And the respect and admiration for the Eusebius, who crosses ideologies and clubs and goes beyond our borders, became more visible than when, about a year ago, Eusebius left us. The Black Panther gave a lot to Benfica, it is true, it gave a lot to her heart club, to her usual club, Benfica, but it also gave a lot to the National Selection and to the Country. It has given so much to the point that it is still difficult to count the points which Portugal has given out of the four lines today. It is by this figure of footballer, but also of citizen, that The Greens are associated with this initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, because we consider that Eusebius, in addition to being an absolutely unique footballer, was also a great citizen, with great greatness. We therefore consider that it is of all justice that the honours of National Pantheon are attributed to the Eusebius of Silva Ferreira, because also, in a certain way, we are echoing the one who is the feeling of the Portuguese generality. [[Congratulations from The Greens and the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u211	The draft resolution will be voted on during the voting period this morning. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, with regard to agenda items 4 and 5, time has not been allocated and will therefore also be voted on during the voting period. Point 4 concerns draft law No 777 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Gives the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to assess and monitor the accounts of parliamentary groups by amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November and the fifth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). Point 5 concerns motion for a resolution No 101 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization and the Amendment to paragraph 12 of the Financial Rules annexed to the Statutes of the Organization, which were adopted in 1979, paragraph 3. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 61 ( III ) ), held in Torremolinos. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system and to that end we would ask the services to prepare the system for all of us to register. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 198 meetings, to which 1 is added, of the PCP Member Jerónimo de Sousa, by 199 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall generally vote on Bill No 278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector approved by Article 228. the Law No 83 - C / 2013, of 31 December. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and the Greens and abstains from the CFP and BE.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 779 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the scheme creating the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote of Bill No. 775 / XII is followed. It establishes the legal regime of nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will vote on a request, subscribed, respectively, by the PCP, PS and BE, in the sense of lein.o 426 / XII projects ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a special regime for alleged death in the event of shipwreck of fishing vessels ( CFP ), 778 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) and 781 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of shipwreck or disappearance of a vessel ( BE) to fall, without a vote, within 30 days to 1. the Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The three bills are down to 1. the Commission within 30 days. The general vote on Bill No 763 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Functional reorganization of the emergency service network. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1262 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent resolution of the problems facing emergency services ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we will now vote, in general, on Bill No 780 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeals Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April, which sets out the criteria for categorising the services and establishments of the National Health Service ( SNS ), according to the nature of their responsibilities and the framework of the valences exercised, and their positioning of the hospital network and proceeds to their classification ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u212	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u213	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u214	Madam President, it is to announce that Mrs Isabel Moreira and I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1266 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On prevention of HCV and making treatment more suitable for patients with hepatitis C ( The Greens) available. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1264 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a programme for the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C and measures guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of the Portuguese State in the area of medicine ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the PS MP Maria Antónia Almeida Santos and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime of local authorities, approving the status of inter-municipal entities, establishing the legal regime for the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approving the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1232 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Honors of National Pantheon to the Eusébio da Silva Ferreira ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the general vote on Bill No 777 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Gives the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to assess and monitor the accounts of parliamentary groups by amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November and the fifth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). This type of vote calls for the use of electronic voting and for lifts and seats. [[Pause.]] I remember that we are going to vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Bill No 777 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Gives the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to assess and monitor the accounts of the parliamentary groups by amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November and the fifth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), which interferes with the competence of the Constitutional Court, so we must resort to electronic voting as constitutionally required. [[When put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, and was approved unanimously, with 190 votes in favour (PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes).]] We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 101 / XII ( 4 ) as a whole. ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization and the amendment to paragraph 12 of the Financial Rules annexed to the Statutes of the Organization, which were adopted in 1979, paragraph 3. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 61 ( III ) ), held in Torremolinos. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 245 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the collective management bodies of copyright and related rights, including the establishment in national territory and the freedom to provide services to entities previously established in another Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u216	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u217	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u218	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u219	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u220	That is not the vote, but the vote that follows. But since it's a set of three related initiatives, I think...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u221	Mr President, if I may, I shall announce the three final texts to be voted on. Maybe it's better for you to understand what you're asking. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u222	Very well, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u223	Mrs. Members, the other texts of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relate to the proposals of lein.246 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September which regulates the provisions of Article 82. the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation for private copy and 247 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2012 / 28 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October on certain permitted uses of orphan works, and makes the tenth amendment to the Code of Copyright and Related Rights adopted by Decree-Law No 63 / 85 of 14 March. You have the floor, then, to speak to the Bureau, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u224	Mr President, on these three initiatives, but in particular on Bill No 246 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), gave entry to the Assembly of the Republic petition No 427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the purpose of which was to prevent the adoption of the proposed law under consideration and already cited by the President. It is also already approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, the petition report and it had been requested that, before the legislative procedure on this matter was concluded, and since it was a petition that had more than 4000 subscribers, the plenary could appreciate the petition and give useful effect to the claim made by the petitioners today that we would be frustrated if we were to approve, in a comprehensive final vote, the text of the initiative. This is, irrespective of the positions of the parliamentary groups on this matter, I believe that there is a dimension of respect for the petitioners here and because we need to appreciate and discuss here in plenary, as the law of the right of petition determines, the text of this petition before the overall final vote of the diploma so that the text presented by the petitioners can effectively influence the vote of the honourable Members. and the Members. in this sense, he requested that at least the text concerning the proposed law No 246 / XII ( 4. ( a ) it was not voted at today's sitting but which, ideally, as it is a set of legislation which also covers the other two related initiatives if the three votes were to be postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u226	I now give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins, also for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u227	Following the previous request, I would like to add the following: Mr President of 1. the Commission has written a letter, which has been distributed today to all Members, even to those who have accompanied this work, bearing in mind the unanimity among all parliamentary groups for these votes — which are matters relating to copyright and related rights, which have been depolated by the law which is known as the rate of private copy, but which also addresses other issues — were not carried out before we discussed in plenary the petition, which has brought together thousands of citizens and citizens, of refusal to do so. The problem is that all parliamentary boards in 1. the Commission agreed not to vote on these texts before the petition was discussed precisely because of respect for citizenship. It's not a regiment problem here, it's true. But what does it mean that we should be debating a petition from a few days from now to a few days, asking us to bring down a project which has already been voted on here in the global final vote? Mr President, that is the bottom line I call for Mr President's letter of 1. the Commission, informing the unanimity of all parliamentary groups, shall be taken into account and that these three votes shall be postponed until the petition can be discussed so that this act of citizens is respected to address Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u228	There are more Members who want to speak to the Bureau. I ask you to be brief. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u229	Mr President, we have already had an opportunity to deal with this issue, but in any case it remains a public record. Mrs Catarina Martins referred to a letter from Mr President of 1. the Commission, which is not a letter well, but the final report of the petition, which we ask to be distributed before this time of vote, precisely to avoid this situation. And without wishing to make general theory about the discussion of legislative initiatives and the discussion of petitions, I just wanted to focus on this concrete aspect: this was the final report adopted in 1. the Commission on this request and which, in agreement with all parliamentary groups, does indeed contain the expectation that the legislative initiatives relating to the petition would not be taken to the overall final vote, so that it could be discussed usefully and that citizens' expectations would not be frustrated. This is our concern, Madam President. In the Commission, by agreement of the parliamentary groups, it came to the conclusion that the petition would be discussed before legislative initiatives. These expectations were created with the more than 8,000 petitioners who signed that petition and yesterday we called the attention of the President of the Commission and the Bureau so that this situation could be avoided. Today, we have again done some further research, we have asked for the distribution of this document in order to achieve this understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u230	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u231	Mr President, we have only one final appeal: that there is at least the possibility of not taking to vote the initiative concerning this petition and that it can be quickly scheduled so that the expectations of the citizens are not frustrated. That is the last appeal we make and we hope that we will be able to gather consensus from the other benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u232	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor, whom I also ask to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that there is an office, of which is contained in the report of 1. the Commission which has been made about the petition in question, but it is also no less true that this act only suggests that we proceed to the discussion of the petition before the vote we are going to make here today. However, Madam President, it is true that there were two conferences of leaders, having the last held two days ago, and no parliamentary group has demanded the scheduling of this petition nor has the matter even been discussed, so we see no reason why the legislative process, which did its terms and which was widely involved and discussed, does not today have its culmination with the scheduled vote. This petition has an autonomous political value. It must, of course, not be stopped from being scheduled or discussed, as are others who come to this Parliament with already decided subjects. The Conference of Leaders, whenever this happens, decides on the autonomous value of petitions and decides to schedule them. This is the case, Madam President, and we therefore believe that we should proceed to the vote on the diplomas scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before passing the floor to the next speaker who asked for it, I would ask them to be brief. I could have answered and rushed this process, but it's good that everyone's pronounce. That being the case, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u235	Madam President, I just wanted to make a correction. What is stated in this paper is not a suggestion; there was a compromise, voted by all Members of 1. the Commission and the Members of 8. the Commission which followed this process, and it was a long work. This commitment has been recalled several times in the Commission and there has always been unanimity. So we're not talking about a mere suggestion. With regard to the Conference of Leaders, I regret that the PSD was not aware of a commitment made by its Members in 1. the Commission, the President of which is Dr Fernando Negrão. Therefore, Madam President, I would also like to join the call for this vote to be postponed and for it to be made on condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u237	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has asked for the floor again. You have one second to reply, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u238	Madam President, I am very sorry, because I did not want to protect this debate, but what is written is written! The Office states that « unanimously, it was in the Commission that it deliberated to suggest V.E.a...». [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] It is a matter of reading, with all ease, with all serenity. Suggest, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, it is to suggest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u239	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u240	Mr President, I just want to say that, in fact, if there is unanimity in a suggestion, we are waiting for the PSD to make the suggestion to the President. If you don't, then there's a situation here to come against faut propitum. [[PSD protests.]] By now, I wanted to say the following: with this behavior, we are not only disappointing the expectation of petitioners, we are defrauding the very content of the petition instrument, because it has no effect. Thus, there is no advantage to come to the petition. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that there is no unanimity in the plenary to change the situation, but also only by unanimity that it could be changed. I wanted to tell the ladies. Members who are treated in Parliament by a chronological order to ensure equality between subscribers to all petitions. It is also my view that the legislative procedure should not be conditional on the content of the petitions. This is not the content of legislative decisions, it is the legislative procedure, because if all petitions at the same time suggested to Parliament that it should not legislate, we were blocking Parliament's decision-making process. This is my opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I cannot help it because I am President of Parliament and I have to discuss procedural matters here. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were unanimity, of course I would accept an amendment to the agenda. A 1. the Commission, with due respect, cannot, even from the point of view of the rules, replace its unanimity with the unanimity of the plenary. Therefore, if there is unanimity here, we can, in a way which I do not consider most appropriate, but which I would say is exceptional, in order to follow up the claim of a pending petition, postpone the decision-making process on these diplomas. But I do not give up on my view that the rule should not be that, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't make sense that the rule is that. You don't mean the gentlemen. Members, by a principle of good faith or by some compromises of which we do not have its scope at the moment, cannot consider this issue, but must be considered by all. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves still wanted to speak. I would ask you briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u242	Madam President, I shall be very brief. I think what's at stake is neither the text nor the content of the petition. What is at stake is not even the content of the legislative initiative. The exercise of the fundamental right of petition is at stake. And if Parliament today chooses to vote on an initiative, not taking into account the useful effect that it automatically removes the petitioners, when it has the opportunity to consider those which are the considerations that more than 4000 citizens have subscribed to this Parliament, and for a reason that, indeed, it is not even a rule of law... There is only a chance to follow petitions in order, but we cannot be blind to the point of finding that if we have an urgent matter that the petitioners intend to deal with and that it has a date, a relevant time context, if it cannot reverse the order of appreciation of petitions. Therefore, we cannot wait for all petitions that have entered before this one to be discussed before the vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u243	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. We are voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u244	I will finish, Madam President. The practice is even to make the joint scheduling of petitions and initiatives precisely so that we can guard this effect, i.e. give useful effect to petitions. in this sense, being unable to obtain consensus unanimously, as has already been observed, would still require the appeal of the decision so that the plenary can vote in conscience on whether citizens can exercise their right to petition before this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u245	I would just like to add that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves is a lawyer in public law and knows that there is the principle of the legislator's revisibility. Therefore, the petition, necessarily, may not be useless. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u246	Madam President, in a very short way, and even because the CDS has not yet spoken in this debate, I would like to say two or three very simple things. First of all, I would like to say that all parliamentary groups have given consensus on this suggestion. It was already read here, and it was clear that it was a suggestion. It has also been noted that, regardless of this suggestion, this matter has passed through more of a Conference of Leaders and is currently scheduled to be voted on in plenary. We have also managed, I say, to understand why, despite this suggestion, the agenda has been made — the President was absolutely transparent when she told us that she believes that a petition cannot block the legislative process. It has also been noted that there is no unanimity or consensus so that the script we are voting on at this time can be postponed. Another day we took part here in the discussion and vote on a petition on the privatization of TTCs, which had already taken place, and the petition was intended to prevent it. Madam President, the debate is over, it is all clear, let us proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u247	Mr Telmo Correia, while also paying tribute to the sacredness of the procedures, there is a request from Mr Pedro Delgado Alves that we have to vote. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you may make your request.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u248	Mr President, the request is that the final texts which the President has announced be postponed by using the Bureau's decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u249	We shall then proceed to the vote on the request. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 245 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the collective management bodies of copyright and related rights, including the establishment in national territory and the freedom to provide services to entities previously established in another Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the PCP, BE, The Greens and 2 PS (Gabriela Canavilhas and Rui Paulo Figueiredo) and the PS abstention were approved.]] We are now voting in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 246 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation relating to private copy. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the PCP, BE, The Greens, of 13 PS Members (António Braga, António Cardoso, Carlos Enes, Fernando Jesus, Fernando Serrasqueiro, Gabriela Canavilhas, Gloria Araújo, João Portugal, José Lello, José Magalhães, Mário Ruivo, Paulo Campos and Rui Paulo Figueiredo) and of 2 CDS-PP (João Rebelo and Michael Seufert) and the PS abstention.]] Mr. Miguel Tiago asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u250	Madam President, it is only to announce that the CFP will make an oral vote on this vote at the end of today's voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u251	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u252	Madam President, with Mr Rebelo, I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u253	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Following the vote, we shall now vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 247 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2012 / 28 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October on certain permitted uses of orphan works, and makes the tenth amendment to the Code of Copyright and Related Rights adopted by Decree-Law No 63 / 85 of 14 March. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and BE, and abstentions from the PCP, The Greens and 7 PS (António Braga, Fernando Serrasqueiro, Glória Araújo, João Portugal, José Lello, Mário Ruivo and Paulo Campos).]] For what effect did you ask for the floor, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u254	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a written vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u255	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein.o 453 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Thirty-first amendment to the Penal Code, sixth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, first amendment to Law No 20 / 2008 of 21 April, first amendment to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, and first amendment to Law No 19 / 2008 of 21 April, in order to comply with the recommendations addressed to Portugal on corruption by GRECO, the United Nations and the OECD in the context of mutual assessment processes ( PSD ) and 601 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Full compliance with the recommendations addressed to Portugal in the fight against corruption by the Group of States of the Council of Europe against Corruption, the United Nations and the OECD ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request for an oral vote, which, as the rule commands, must take place now. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u256	Madam President, on the vote on Bill No 246 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has done everything to ensure that the overall final vote of the proposal for a private copy law does not take place before the debate of the petition on the same subject, which brings together several thousand signatures and which is already awaiting scheduling for plenary. The Assembly, despite having taken this vote with formal legitimacy, loses the opportunity to value the intervention of more than 5,000 Portuguese who signed this petition. The opportunity is thus lost by option and imposition of the PSD and CDS-PP, undermining their own commitments in 1. the Commission. It does not remove legitimacy either to the bill or to the petition but does not value as much as each one deserved. In addition to this protest which leaves in the form of a declaration of vote, the CFP announces that the vote against this bill is not due to the way in which it was discussed but to its content. Essentially, the proposed law now voted persists in a model of compensation for copyright holders that has already shown to be not fair to the holders nor to those who pay the fee for such compensation. In addition, the application of an indiscriminate rate to all data media and copy and storage instruments creates a situation of inequity in the face of those who make strict use of such media and instruments as well as generate a compensation whose value does not have any direct relation to the alleged injury, prejudice to that which continues to lack genuine evaluation and proof. The PCP presented in the Assembly of the Republic a bill aimed at overcoming the main problems associated with the production of copies and the remuneration of authors, interpreters and producers, completely legalizing the sharing and ensuring the remuneration of artists for the shared work, because sharing works of art is not stealing. This project was rejected by the PSD and CDS and had the abstention of PS and BE. PSD and CDS now approve a bill that will quickly prove its obsolescence and will bring to art, to culture and to the economy much more damage than benefits. The answer, even because it is imposed by the development of the means of production and dissemination, is and will be, as the CFP proposes, that of the socialisation of the work, with the remuneration of the artist assured, at an early stage, by those who actually profit from artistic production: the Internet suppliers. The future will show that the government's option, supported by PSD and CDS, persists in a line of prosecution of the so-called piracy and harms the author himself when it should end piracy by legalizing sharing. This proposal insists on the illegality of the so-called piracy but charges a charge on the pretext of that same piracy. We consider it immoral. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-20.u257	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will have as an agenda, as well as political statements, the general debate of the projects of lein.os 607 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by promoting the extension of the system of exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of absence, disability, impediment or death of parent ( PS ) and 786 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code on parental responsibilities ( CDS-PP and PSD ) and the assessment of petition No 391 / XII ( 3. a ) — Presented by João António Rondão Almeida and others, expressing support for the defense of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas, and the right of patients to health services, together with the draft resolutions 1273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defense of the medical-surgical emergency at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas ( PS ), 1276 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the services provided at Santa Luzia Hospital, Elvas ( BE ) and 1278 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By improving the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas, and in defense of users' access to health services ( PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 10 minutes.]]
